ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e35	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 65 minutes plus 5 minutes to the Council of State and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of the parties and up to five lines with replies from the Council of State post within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. This will be seen as a confirmation. The first speaker is Tore Nordtun, on behalf of the spokesman for Saka, Terje Aasland, who is a member of the Lagtinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e50	First, I just want to make a correction to the Odelstinget setting. On page 53 of the printed setting, chapter 35, paragraph 5, now reads: ‘In the Act of 29 September 1968 on special jurisdictions for future property, the first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 19 shall be replaced by the following:’;» [[servite promise]] Here's what it says: «In Law of 29 November 1968 [[...]] The new law we are now dealing with provides local authorities with the opportunity to meet climate challenges, stop the loss of biodiversity and ensure people’s access to outdoors and recreational areas. And not only that: Planning by the Law on Planning and Buildings should be a tool for elected bodies to manage important developments in the communities and in our big society. A specific task is to protect important environmental values based on long-term considerations in a society with continued economic growth. Planning shall also ensure that the balances are made in full transparency and publicity for different reasons. Good public planning is important to take care of interests that are otherwise weak in our society. This strengthens local democratic processes and ensures that all citizens can participate in planning ahead. Local democracy is also facilitated to a greater extent by planning processes and, to a lesser extent, by dispensations. I also think it is important in this introduction to stress, on behalf of the President-in-Office, that there has been a good process in the Committee, also with the other parties. If you look at the setting today, there are not so many deviations, or minorities, in the Committee's comments. What's new with the new bill? Let me mention a few points: Municipalities are now to assess which watercourses are to be prohibited. It's important in the time we go into now, with a lot of expansion of small power plants. At the same time, we have to limit the possibility of granting exemptions. It's an important thing. This is done by the fact that the consideration of nature, the cultural environment, the landscape and the open air for the general public should form the basis for the treatment of waiver applications in our municipalities. We also have an important part that concerns regard zones. Consideration zones are now to be introduced as a new concept in the Law, in the Law on Planning and Building. These consideration zones shall be defined by the municipalities and shall show the limits of use in the individual areas. However, the taking-up zones should not override specific legislation. Certain concerns have been raised as to whether sectoral legislation should be exceeded, but this is not the case. Access to further environmental considerations is open through these plans. Municipalities may make demands, inter alia: on flexible and environmentally friendly energy solutions for new development. This means that the municipality can now demand that it be facilitated, among other things. waterborne heat in new building areas. In particular, it should now make it easier for municipalities to decide on the choice of public transport. In concrete terms, this means that municipalities can decide more easily that public transport should be better accessible than car traffic. It's a very good tool for the municipalities on the environmental side. I would also like to stress that the purpose of the Act now states that the principle of universal design should be respected both in planning and in the requirements of individual construction measures. This universal design has been required for many years. In this area it's until the degrees have been swept away. Now we get the stricter in the form of law, among other things. to protect those people who have some problems accessing certain public buildings. That is one point I would like to mention, which I think is very important, and these are regional plans, so-called state plans. They are today just guiding the municipalities and private developers. This is changing now. Under the new law, regional plans may be made legally binding until they are incorporated into the municipal plans, i.e. the possibility of a planned extension contrary to regional plans being halted. The aim of this national policy provision, as it may be called, is to facilitate greater regional coordination of policies for the establishment and expansion of purchasing centres. The aim is to strengthen existing urban and urban centres and contribute to environmentally friendly transport choices. It will also avoid developments leading to urban sprawl, car dependence and poor accessibility for those who do not dispose of cars. The long-term objective is to achieve more sustainable and robust urban and urban development and to limit greenhouse gas emissions. Intermunicipal planning is also important. Intermunicipal cooperation is becoming more important and important. Community borders are now more intertwined. The municipalities are building more together in several fields. They are now being challenged for housing, industrial development and industrial land, but also for strategic positions. Intermunicipal cooperation is therefore crucial for a future and good development of areas where joint interests and cooperation are placed before the special interests. Intermunicipal cooperation is also important in relation to regional plans, for example: the future nature of trade and industrial development, while the guidelines for the purchasing centres, on which I was a little involved, justify this. In this context, regional planning becomes more important and important. Landdisposal is becoming increasingly cross-border, and conflicts of interest are rapidly emerging, which can be avoided by good regional planning. It is therefore with wonder that we note that the Right Party and the Advance Party will take the fight for the number of levels of government into the Planning and Building Act. The alternative to regional planning is more government plans if no regulation or coordination is sought. This is, of course, a position taken by the Party of Advancement and the Right. Then there is reason to ask the question: is this a social development that will serve people the most? Of course not, in our opinion. An unregulated society benefits primarily those with strong participations. Finally, I want to address energy issues, which are also affected by the Law on Planning and Building. We have been concerned that important national tasks and responsibilities arising from installations for the transmission and distribution of high voltage electrical energy which are subject to a concession are exempted from the provisions of this Act, with the exception of the requirements on the basis of maps, etc. and impact studies on measures and plans under other legislation, as well as the continued exclusion of pipelines at sea for the transport of petroleum from the provisions of the Planning and Building Act that we are dealing with today. In view of the debate on energy, I would like to stress that installations for the production of electrical energy will continue to be covered by the planning provisions of the new Planning and Building Act. But here the committee specifies that the municipalities under the new law will not be obliged to regulate, but can regulate plants for the production of electricity if the municipality itself wishes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e96	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e99	I want to follow up the representative where he finished, because the Soria Moria statement says: ‘A living and decentralised democracy with broad participation is fundamental to meeting the societal challenges. ‘... As far as energy is concerned, we know that the new Planning and Building Act opens up to municipalities to say less about future power developments than they have today. Will local democracy be heard when we open up less influence on local authority? A lot of municipalities want power expansion. So let's see examples of that going on and on. The weave is one example, the Stryn watercourse another. But they are stopped by national authorities, and obviously the power balance is not the important thing. There will also be cases where I fear there will be more, as in Austevoll, where the municipality opposes a power project. They want a lot of wind, but there's one wind power project they're opposed to. But they're getting trodden down their heads by the NVE that they're going to have it. Does the Nordtun representative think this represents local democracy in practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e111	The replicator has absolutely one point, and it's been discussed quite thoroughly. But it is important here to have a central look at the overall, national tasks in terms of the responsibilities of the major leaders in our energy production, and how the transfers are to be done. It may seem that there is a contrast, but I would particularly like to refer to the last thing I said: they are not obliged to regulate, but they can regulate plants for the production of electricity if the municipality wants it. Substantial emphasis will be placed on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e116	The representative of Nordtun goes far in his praise of the law. He says, among other things: that it is a tool for elected representatives. He's quite right about that -- if you look at this hall. It is the Stortinget and county councils that are given power at the expense of local authorities and city councillors. Furthermore, the representative Nordtun said in his speech that this is a proper step towards combating climate change. This law will have little significance in relation to climate change. Finally, the representative Nordtun says that it strengthens local democratic processes. Well, in that case, it has to be the processes here in the Chamber, because if you look at the local democratic processes, they are now even less valuable and to a much greater extent overrun and tested by both state politicians, statesmen and us big-time politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e125	It is hardly likely that we have had any treatment here in this room that is so permeated by local democracy and the input of local democracy. Just look at what I said when it was about the mall development, and what I said when it was about district plans and regional plans. That's exactly where the recordings come from. When I explained, among other things: Our attitude towards the malls, it was from a larger perspective when it came to the regions, just to centralize them to facilitate public transport rather than private cars, and to organise it according to where people live and work. That's exactly what we're now looking at in a context, to put municipal plans, to meet our major environmental challenges. This law is a much better tool than what we've had in the past. It is specified in paragraph by paragraph. I'm proud of this law.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e132	The Christian People's Party is committed to universal design. There was also the representative Tore Nordtun in his post. He pointed out that this is where the law applies in the case of new buildings and installations. That's good. So a total opposition has said in a note that it's important that it's not just about new constructions. It will take a very long time if you wait until you have renewed the entire building mass and all the facilities. It is important that a universal design is also put in place for existing buildings and structures. An overall opposition has said that it is important to include this in future budgets. Now the government parties have not entered that note. I hope that doesn't mean that they're against one having to focus specifically on this in the budgets ahead. Can the representative, Mr Nordtun, confirm that such a priority is sought in the budgets ahead?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e141	It has now been imperative, after so many years and discussions, to put in place universal design. There have been many words without action, and it has not been put into practice. Now we come through the law and impose universal design. I am aware of the issues raised by the replicator regarding new constructions versus old construction. Unfortunately, we have not done so in the new buildings. This is also a legally sound signal that you have to clean up the past in this area. There are many of the old buildings that will also stand in the future, of course, after this law has been passed. I very much hope that we can also take action in the budgetary procedure in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e148	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e152	Let me begin by thanking both the President-in-Office and the Council of State for the clarity shown and for the assistance given to the Committee in this matter. It's been exemplary, and you can say that other departments probably have a lot to learn from this process. The law we are dealing with today is about how Norwegian land is to be managed. That there was a need for a clean-up in the laws that applied before, and especially the Planning and Building Act, there is a broad political consensus about. The need for clear legislation on how to manage Norwegian land is a broad political consensus. That the state must have the last word in a few cases, there is also agreement on that. But the main line of conflict in this case is the right of municipalities to manage their own land. The party of progress wants to strengthen this right, while the parties of government want to weaken the local authorities' right to manage their own land. Land management is too much a central part of policymaking, and not least an important tool for industrial development. Good local land management and the organisation of housing and cabin construction are also a means of maintaining and increasing settlements in many municipalities in the country. A reduction in the right of municipalities to manage their own land will result in less interest in particular in this policy area, but also in local policies as such. At a time when policy interests are falling, it should not be in the interest of Storting to contribute to local policy-making solely on the services to be cut. It should also be about the development and vitalisation of communities. Today, the Progress Party will present a series of proposals that will strengthen local democracy. We do this because we believe that the wit is equally distributed throughout the country, and because we believe that in terms of land management in Tønsberg, in Austevoll, in Fröya, in Namdalen, in Senja and in Lom, it is not the politicians in Oslo and the bureaucrats in Trondheim that are best suited to managing these. The Progress Party considers that these areas are best managed jointly by local politicians and landowners. So it's just to record that the Progress Party is partly alone, partly together with the Right, at this point of view. The centre party clearly no longer believes that the wit is equally distributed throughout the country, and has joined its traditional central government-oriented colleagues, apparently without struggle. That the socialists want to strengthen the state power against the landowners and local democracy is no news, but that the centre party is very disappointing, without giving any kind of resistance. A clear example of this exaggeration of local self-determination is that government parties go in to deprive municipalities of planning authority by wind turbines. It is not difficult to understand that major hydroelectric installations with a high national importance for security of supply and often having consequences for rivers running through several municipalities must be subject to state spatial planning. But opening up to forcing municipalities to accept wind turbines is an premature attack on local democracy, and it cannot be defended that national interests are conducive to development. In fact, it does not try to do so either, since the proposal which is unfortunately to be adopted today does not contain a restriction that important national interests must be at the root of such windmill congestion. This is completely contrary to what Mr Nordtun has to say. Windmills could never make a significant contribution to the security of supply of a region, as they do not produce power for more than about approx. One third of the time. The beach zone is the second and at least as grave example. For many municipalities, the Strandzon represents the main areas of both economic development and housing. The programme of the Centre Party states that local autonomy should be the guiding principle of the management of the coastal zone. Unfortunately, the proposal that appears to be adopted today means that there will be a ban on construction throughout the coastal zone, along the sea and in the watercourses. Then it opens correctly for a - but much more so - exemption from this ban. Looking at this in the context of the majority of proposals on regional plans, it means that local politicians in Hol or Hurum will in future have to have the approval of bureaucrats at the Drammen County Council, politicians at the Drammen County Council, bureaucrats at the Trondheim Directorate of Nature Management and from the Oslo Minister of Environmental Protection before they can expect to be able to approve any expansion in the coastal zone. I don't understand how this can be interpreted as local self-determination being the guiding principle in the management of the beach zone, on which the centre party has gone to the elections, but I am delighted to hear the spokesman of the centre party explain it later in the debate. Motor traffic is another theme on which much more attention should have been paid in the work on this law. Strictly speaking, we do not need a separate motor traffic permit. The design part of the Planning and Building Act would have been an excellent tool to regulate motor travel in the field and to comply with the necessary regulations for such movement. I then base my view that the municipalities should have an extended right to manage motor travel in the field, including where it is allowed to drive, and for what purposes you should allow driving. After all, it has been announced by the government that a new proposal for motorcycling law would be submitted before the summer vacation, but I note that the latest government signals indicate that such a proposal will not be submitted before the summer. The former Secretary-General of the Centre for Youth has said that this will not be presented before the 2009 Grand Prix elections. That's what I think is starting to vote. It is very disappointing, all the time the signals from several tone-setting position politicians - parliamentary leader both in the Central Party and in the SV as well as the state council Helga Pedersen and the councillor Torny Pedersen, both from the Workers' Party - have clearly indicated that driving for recreation is to be permitted and that motor travel is to be managed in compliance with the Planning and Building Act. In my opinion, it would then have been natural for Stortinget to deal with both matters at the same time, so that they could be seen in the context. When this has not happened, and the case is postponed, I will interpret it so that this case is not as clear as some of the main speakers of the position have stated. In any case, the party to the progress has tried to demonstrate that the greatest possible share of the management of motor travel in the outland should be exercised by the municipalities and in compliance with this law. So the government also suggests something reasonable in this law. Strengthening the procedures for private planning proposals is positive. In particular, the requirement for the earliest possible dialogue with potentially interested stakeholders is very sensible. It is obvious that this will lead to increased costs for private developers, but this enhancement ensures that all regulatory plans receive the same thorough treatment. However, it becomes strange that at the same time you want to weaken the legal position of the private plans. A legislative requirement that areas where regulated measures are not built within five years must be reregulated if the measure is regulated on the basis of private plan proposals is meaningless. On the one hand, the government is sibling the process towards final planning for public and private planning proposals. On the other hand, plans that have initially been the legal status of private plan proposals are weakening. Today, many housing projects, especially in the districts, are being built over time. In the case of the sale of the first dwellings in a field, the infrastructure cost for the whole field is taken into account for the cost calculation of the individual units. If in the future builders have to calculate the possibility that unbuilt measures within five years may not be at risk of being built, the costs of individual units will necessarily increase. Once again, the districts are hit hardest, because there is the least possibility of major expansions in a click. The law also introduces a new phenomenon in Norwegian administration - lawmaking is at least a new phenomenon. The so-called "respect zones" open up a wide range of state overrides, which only have to be mentioned briefly. For example, the published Purchasing Centre Regulation of the Government Team will dictate which purchasing centres can be built there. Worse examples of government governance should be looked for for a long time. This is where the majority of the population goes in order for the Ministry of the Environment to decide where municipalities should be allowed to allow the construction of purchasing centres. This is seen in the context of the fact that it is at the same time signaled that the regulatory home of the Government today causes the municipalities to impose a maximum number of parking spaces in the centre areas, after all, the co-media becomes complete. Customers should not be allowed to shop at shopping centres outside the premises, but they should not be allowed to bring the car into the dents. For me, how retailing is going to take place for families with young children and people with reduced mobility in the future is a great wonder. In any case, the ban on the purchase centre and the parking restrictions are another example of the untimely state overmanagement of local democracy. It also illustrates that the Government does not take into account that Norway is a long-term country and that parts of the country have such a geographical and demographic structure that shopping centres outside agglomerations are an important and necessary part of the service provision in many regions. The government is also far from proposing an ethnic dimension in land management in half of Norway. The Party of Progress has a great deal of understanding that all traditional nutritional practices are required to be heard in land- and land-related matters. But when the government proposes to object to the Sameting of all plan items -- from Hedmark in the south to the Churches in the north -- that the Sameting is of importance to Sami culture and nutrition, it is to go far too far. It is therefore gratifying that the committee majority strongly intensifies that ‘The right of objection of the merger under the provisions of the law may be applied only where this is essential and directly relevant to the Sami culture or the Sami practice’. The Progress Party is, as I said, pleased with this tightening up, but believes that the protection of Sami cultural memories is protected by the Cultural Memory Act and that reindeer management could well be equated with other land-intensive traditional industries. The approach of the government means that in many cases one must in practice have the approval of his own local government, his own regional authority, the bureaucrats in Trondheim, the council of Oslo and, President, from Sametinget in Karasjok, also in Engerdal in Hedmark! That this can take the reception of any builder is not hard to understand. An example of how this already works is found in Troms Folkeblad on 15 May, where it appears that a builder is not allowed to manage his own field freely, despite the fact that in human memory there has not been calving on the man's ground. It also appears in the case that the man who wants to implement the measure expects that if all the agencies are positive, it will take three years before the final approval of the measure will be available. The Progress Party considers this to be highly unreasonable. I would like to conclude by saying that the Progress Party is going to vote on and declares clearly today that the wit is equally distributed throughout the country. It is not surprising that the Workers' Party and SV are at the forefront of a struggle to strengthen central power against local democracy. It's these two parties based on it. But the fact that the Center Party today can contribute to the adoption of this law as it exists is a great wonder for me. I note that it is partly the Right Party and the Advance Party that are fighting for local democracy today, that the Labour Party, the SVs and the Central Party's local politicians in the Norwegian country will continue to manage the areas they are set to manage in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e189	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e192	There were many wonderful things here, but I'm going to catch up with you. The Progress Party has adopted the slogan 'Most People'. This in itself is quite incredible, as the party on most points holds a policy for the few and the well-meaning. I am therefore not surprised when this particular party is at the forefront that access to attractive beach areas should be for the few and not for the many, under the cover of local self-government. But we see in practice that this does not work, and in particular we see it in progressive party-driven municipalities. 'The Beach Zone is shrinking ', it says to read in the Evening Post today. My question to the Progress Party is: Does the spokesman of the Progress Party today agree that the slogan 'Most People' is not entirely appropriate?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e199	I could have bothered to answer no, because I don't mean that. Now it's like this -- and I'm very sorry about that -- that most of the municipalities in Norway, including along the coast, are run by workers' party rapporteurs, so when the beach zone disappears, it's hardly just the Progress Party's fault. So I would like to point out that it is quite obvious in some areas of the country that it is important to preserve the open air areas, areas that have traditionally been used for outdoor life - which we also ensure - but to base a ban on building in the beach zone everywhere, I am not in a position to do that. I know the coastal areas from Trondelag and northwards very well. I know that in many of these areas expansion will make them more accessible, and I know that in many of these areas there is very good space for both outdoor life and expansion without one having to give way to the other. That is why I do not agree that there is a need for a total ban on building in the beach zone.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e208	First, I would like to allow myself a comment. When the representative said in his post that reindeer operations must become a normal industry, the representative could not have understood what reindeer operations are all about. But there's a comment, so to my question. When I read through this setting -- I'm not in the committee -- I noticed all the times it says in the committee comments that the Right and the Advance Party want two levels of administration. And as I read through it, I thought that just such a planning law is a reason that there are just three levels of government we need here in the country. Because it's absolutely right that the sense is equally distributed. It's not like everything's going to be planned in Oslo. There are many reasonable reasons to have three levels of government, including: in the case of spatial planning. Does the representative not see such questions as where to expand, and how to manage the area, it makes sense that more municipalities in a region have a popular governance?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e215	When you represent the reindeer district of South Trendelag, it's kind of nice to be put in place to reindeer operations by a representative from Rogaland. I just note that, so I should rather work to get involved in that matter. Two levels of administration are clearly the solution. The Christian People's Party and the Government today are in favour of strengthening the legal position of the state plans, which means that local politicians, who already have to deal with the state council and with the state council, Solheim, will have to deal with the state council, the county council and the state council Solheim in the future. I don't think I'm lucky. What is the solution to the challenges of regional spatial planning is clearly voluntary inter-municipal planning, and it is clearly primarily larger municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e222	In any case, the central party is difficult not to be touched when one hears the suddenness of the Progress Party and so intensely defends local democracy and local processes. I'm glad. But I want to challenge the representative Lien on one point. In this setting, the Progress Party also states that in certain open and important national interest projects, such as power transmission, the construction of larger power generation, etc., it is natural that the municipalities have no veto or that national interests go first. What is the argument for this? If local self-government is so sovereign, why shouldn't they also have the power to say no, this we don't want? That was just the argument I could think of as right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e229	Before the representative Lien has to answer, the President will recall that there is no proposal yet, and the President will assume that Mr. This line is going to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e232	The President is in his wisdom as always right, and I am addressing the proposals where the Progress Party is the proposer or the co-sponsor. And then I answer the question. It is obvious, as I also said in my statement, that in a few examples there are important national interests that speak for it, for example. that power must be transferred from Hordaland to North-Møre, or that major infrastructure needs to be built, is correct that the state has the opportunity to do these things. But we take into account in all our proposals that there should be important national interests before the state can intervene. When the representative, Sande, today supports and moves the removal and removal of electricity from the Law on Planning and Building, the representative also removes the requirement that important national interests should be the basis of such wind turbines, for example. That's the difference between the Progress Party and the Center Party in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e241	In doubt, the President will add the credit and interpret it so that the representative Tord Lien has drawn up the proposals to which he referred. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e246	The government's proposal for a new law on planning and construction weakens local self-government and thus also the ability to create local activity and development. The right believes that the Government's proposal for a new plan law is a serious interference in both local democracy and private property rights. The right has confidence that the inhabitants of each community are able to make decisions that will provide the best starting point for a good life for both themselves and theirs. When decisions are taken in the near future, the solutions will be adapted to the individual community and to the individual in the best possible way. There are great variations between municipalities. Municipalities will therefore choose different solutions to meet different needs. Manifestation is not a threat, but it creates development and progress. Local authorities must be able to perform their tasks. It is therefore necessary to stimulate growth and measures that motivate municipalities to create values and generate their own income, and that also help each municipality to make the most of its own tax revenues. Unfortunately, the government makes the opposite. Municipalities do likewise by reducing the share of the tax and increasing transfers, while at the same time removing the local share of the corporation tax. The latter is a disaster for local economic development. This policy has also been tried earlier without luck. A forward-looking policy would have increased the local share of corporate tax and not eliminated it. The reason why I'm withdrawing this is that there are several examples just recently of the fact that the Storting has, through its majority, taken decisions at the expense of local self-government. The right strongly disagrees with the restraints of the dispensation access related to the building ban in the beach zone. With this amendment, large parts of the country will in practice lose access completely. On the contrary, the right considers that the construction ban in the 100 metre belt along the sea must take account of local variations, including construction bans on water and watercourses. Let me take a little example from Kvinesdal. It has not been many years since the entire municipality would have been protected if one had followed the government's suggestions. Another tempting example is Flekker Island in the municipality of Kristiansand, where, of course, the life that now exists in the beach zone, is helping to increase the attractiveness of the island and not weaken it. Of course, you have to keep it as desirable, given the rights of all people, the amazing areas that are now untouched. But it has to be up to the local self-government itself to decide. In the Right we believe that the Government does not have confidence in the local body, and thus less influence is given in its own municipality. We see government agencies being strengthened, while the government is taking away local elected powers. Legal decisions are taken by the local government of the country, but they will increasingly be set aside by tightening up this legislation. Municipalities must have a decisive influence on land disposal. The right strongly disagrees with the Government that regional plans should be legally binding on the municipalities. It weakens democracy, and it transfers power to the bureaucrats of the various statesmen and to the completely unnecessary level of the county. Today, the county and in practice its environmental protection department not only act as an approval authority but also premise for the development of municipalities by actively participating in and influencing the planning process itself. This detailed management has never been the intention of the Storting. Furthermore, the tasks of the county council must be limited to overseeing and carrying out legality checks. The right of objection of Members of the European Parliament must be restricted as far as possible. I can't believe that the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, on the one hand, talk nicely about local self-government, while on the other hand they are involved in increasing the power of the statesmen. These are unfortunately only gruesome examples of the difference between rhetoric and action. National policy provisions on purchasing centres mean that the establishment or extension of purchasing centres can only be carried out in accordance with approved county plans or sub-plans with guidelines for the localisation of trade in goods and other service functions. When these plans become legally binding, there will be a general ban on establishment contrary to the plans. Furthermore, for areas not covered by the approved plan, it will not be permitted to establish centres of purchase with more than 3000 m2 of useful land or to extend existing ones so that the total use area exceeds this limit. This prohibition will also apply if an approved county plan or district sub-plan is wholly or partially repealed. The prohibition shall apply to both retail and retail trade, including the sale of space-intensive goods. The right is in favour of the objective of strengthening urban and urban centres and of facilitating environmentally friendly transport choices, but a state or county restriction on the establishment or expansion of purchasing centres is not the way to achieve such an objective. Studies from, inter alia: Sweden shows that even with many shopping centres outside the city centres, urban centres have experienced increased trade. Families often rely on cars to transport the goods home when purchasing, and especially in larger volumes. Many therefore prefer to do wholesale of everything in one place in large shopping centres. Overall, it gives less car use than when you have to drive to several places to shop. The new ‘Solheim centres’, with a limit of 3000 m2, will lead to a spread of establishments just below the border, making it more difficult to identify, for example: good collective solutions. It means increased car use and more pollution, and I guess it's against the intentions of the Council of State. I also want to add that the purchasing centres outside the big cities function as a good price correction, which benefits consumers to the greatest extent. This whole thing is about local democracy and respect for local democracy. The right considers that municipalities are entitled to facilitate and plan sustainable land use within their territory. This also applies to the establishment of purchasing centres versus other uses of the land. It is the municipalities themselves that have the best knowledge of what is appropriate for the establishment of purchasing centres within their local boundaries. Therefore, the right is opposed to State or county restrictions on the establishment or extension of purchasing centres. Finally, let me draw attention to Document No. 8:4 for 2006-2007, which is a proposal by representatives of Erna Solberg, Gunnar Gundersen, Kari Lise Holmberg, Bent Höie, Ivar Kristiansen and myself, proposing that the concession authority for all power plants up to 1 MW be delegated to each municipality. If this proposal had been adopted, all the powers of each municipality would have been collected in relation to hydropower with an installed power of less than 1 MW. Such a proposal would have provided a higher rate of expansion for renewable energy and strengthened local self-government. The fact that the government parties voted down the proposal appears to be a clear breach of their own promises, but the list of broken promises has already become very, very long. In conclusion, let me address the proposals No. 4-6, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, proposal No. 7, from the Right and the Left, and proposal No. 8 from the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e283	The representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e288	When I hear the representative of Skovholt Gitmark, I have to raise a slightly general question. So it's the way to make the new planning and building law easier to understand and make it easier to use -- we agree. But then I hear what Skovholt Gitmark says in his post here, and what has also been said in the comments, that a ‘must have a widespread opportunity to use discretion’. This doesn't simplify the law, nor does it make it more consistent. How does the Right regard the need for a reunited national leadership in the field of the environment, in the field of energy, if the Right wants to erode both the intention and the letter of the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e295	Getting a simple law of planning and building is very important and should have been the general rule for all of us. Unfortunately, we see that the simplicity of the government is that we are going to have one state legislation with the least possible use of local discretion. It believes that the Right will lead to a worse law in total. Let me just say that different municipalities have different needs, and if we want the country to be used, we also need to realize that municipal politicians are those who are closest to their own municipality, their own inhabitants, and will make decisions that are best for each individual. I would also like to say to the representative that in this law there should have been a much clearer view that it should be a yes-law. It should be justified that, in the case of extension applications and construction applications, the answer should be yes if there are no good reasons to say no. The opposite is actually the way the Workers' Party and the other partners put it, that the law says no, but there should be good reasons for yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e302	It is not surprising: firstly, I very much agree with what Mr. Skovholt Gitmark said, and also in what his party stands for in the setting, perhaps because we stand together on most things. But Skovholt Gitmark is talking about local autonomy. He keeps that very high, also in the management of the beach zone. Then I find something paradoxical that the Right nevertheless goes in to maintain a building ban in the beach zone. One wants to base the development of the beach zone on a dispensation access. Then the local self-government becomes an exception to the law and not the rule of the law. How does the representative Skovholt Gitmark explain that the Right believes that local self-government should manage the beach zone, but nevertheless a ban on building in the beach zone should be imposed? I think right-wing people owe their voters an explanation for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e311	I am pleased that the Right Party and the Advance Party are united about most of the position, both in terms of the individual local needs to create the most possible level of positiveness associated with planning and construction processes, and not least in respect of local democracy. For the Right, it is important to establish that it is also the responsibility of the Grand Duchy to facilitate, especially in the environmental field, a number of important national, overall objectives. One of them, of course, is that we're going to have a beach zone that, at all rights, is a pleasure to the public. This does not mean that all areas of the coastal zone are to be protected. We believe that the State should facilitate the general prohibition, as we do, but that municipalities should have a derogation access, so that individual areas can be expanded if it does not go at the expense of all-man rights or particularly important areas of all-man rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e316	In the change of line with Nordtun’s representative instead, Gitmark said that this law has no significance in combating climate change. I thought for a moment that I heard wrong, but I heard probably right. Then I wonder if the representative has at all read the bill that we have to deal with. I can mention for a long time what lies of climate implications in what we are adopting today. Firstly, for the first time climate considerations are to be taken into account in the planning of municipalities. Municipalities shall draw up local climate and energy plans. They are given the opportunity to place restrictions on parking in cities and agglomerations. They are given the opportunity to decide that public transport should be better accessible than car traffic. They have the power to demand flexible and environmentally friendly energy solutions in new buildings. The counties are also given the opportunity to contribute to a reduction in their dependence on the car. I wonder then: when transport represents such an important share of greenhouse gas emissions, and when emissions from stationary combustion are also a large proportion, does this not have an impact on the climate?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e323	Of course, the representative is right. I'm sure it was an act of overconfidence to the Nordtun representative. His praise of the law in total meant that we both got a wrong look at the law. We agree, of course, on the points raised by Mr No Marte Thorkildsen regarding the importance of, among other things. to limit transport, but we disagree with, among other things. malls. It is important that we have State legislation also for construction treatment that facilitates positive changes in the climate - i.e. less climate emissions. It does the law to some extent, but it is largely other laws that are far more important for that very thing. That's what I wanted to get in line with the Nordtun representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e330	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e333	Today, I woke up to the news that there is an international consensus on the ban on class weapons, and then there followed two important debates in the Stortinget, one on women and development and one on the world food crisis. It may seem somewhat sad and tired to have to debate a new part of the planning and building law, but it is neither tired nor sad. On the contrary, it's very important. The Planning and Building Act is essential for important aspects of our lives, such as: climate issues, environment and outdoor life, children and young people's growing-up environment, business development, indigenous issues, development of urban and residential environments locally, crime prevention - that's exactly what I'm particularly pleased to have been introduced as a subject in the law. That's what I've been working for for over several years, having been in the Justice Committee for the last period - further public health, social security and not least the possibility of disabled people being able to participate in the same way as people with disabilities. However, I want to focus on two aspects since I only have 5 minutes: climate and environment and outdoor life, more specifically the access to the beach zone for most people. For the first time, we are now going to legislate that climate considerations are to be taken into account in planning. The municipalities, as I have said before, are given the opportunity to implement climate and energy plans, among others. the climate agreement that everyone except the Progress Party is behind. The counties will be given the opportunity to ensure that dwellings, trade and jobs are put in such a way as to reduce dependence on cars. The law simplifies the ability of municipalities to restrict parking in cities and agglomerations, and it makes it easier for municipalities to premise when choosing routes for roads and public networks. In concrete terms, this means that municipalities can make it easier to decide that public transport should be made more accessible than car traffic - quite radically so. In many areas, the sum of the expansions in several municipalities will determine the impacts on transport and climate emissions. Thus, the counties have a new tool to ensure a sustainable pattern of development. A regional plan can now have legal effect for municipalities and private individuals. It's a regional planning. This means that plans for large enterprises or residential areas contrary to such plans can be stopped. Such a provision may also be used, for example: ensuring large open air areas and soil protection. For urban areas, this provision may contribute to a significant reduction of transport emissions by building tighter within the construction zone and locating dwellings, trade and other activities close to traverses and hubs of the collective system. Another important measure of climate and democracy in this law is that municipalities will now have the power to demand flexible and environmentally friendly energy solutions in the context of new development. What we say is that the municipality can demand that it be prepared for waterborne heat. We have many examples that municipalities and counties have been frustrated because they have been referred almost to a showroom when important decisions affecting their local development and contributions to e.g.: greenhouse gas emissions, taken. Examples include large buildings with oil-fired heating or new road packages without public transport or cycling or walking facilities. Another important theme of this law is public access to some of our most beautiful and important areas, namely the coastal zone. As a Westfolding, I've been following developments in this particular matter for many years. The County of Westfold concludes that despite the construction ban, there has been considerable construction activity along the Oslofjorden. The sum of many small measures gives an unacceptable effect over time, they say. The number of dispensations in the coastal zone sent to the County Environmental Protection Agency for its opinion has increased considerably in recent years. This is partly because, according to the County of Westfold, the number of applications has increased, but also because the municipalities are more positive for exemptions. Similarly, the number of exemptions claimed by the County Environmental Protection Agency has increased in recent years. When the committee was on an inspection along the west fold coast earlier this year, we received clear feedback that the county is therefore satisfied that the dispensation criteria are now being incorporated into the law, and that it is now much clearer what should be allowed, and what should not be. Derogations related to commercial purposes and densely built strips are removed. After these changes, I feel reasonably confident that we will not see new, gruesome examples of the Kalvetangen on Nut Island in Westfold. We can let go of endless debates about what is a janitor's dwelling, and what is not. But not least, our indomits will be secured far more for the benefit of the people most and not privatized by the few, those who have been lucky through inheritance, or who have had enough money or influence to secure private pearls. The law allows the King to move the exemption authority from the municipalities in special cases. This is done only if it is necessary to safeguard national or important regional interests in order to take account of specified areas of the coastal zone. This includes only parts of the country, and we will pursue a differentiated policy. Summing up, I would like to say that the new plan law in sum is a victory for the climate, for the environment, for the local maritime administration and for those who do not have the right to vote, power and money, that is. future generations, children and young people - and not least nature seas.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e361	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e364	The representative says many times that municipalities are given power to both the one and the other, also in relation to transport and climate solutions. Then she's also ready - and I hope that the representative Sande from the Center Party notices - that you're opening up county council coercion. But isn't it that this bill also largely opens up so that the government can force the municipalities to introduce these measures as No Marte Thorkildsen says that the municipalities themselves have the power to introduce?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e370	It's a little bit of a question of what areas of the law we're talking about here. This is a very broad law. If we, for example, looking at the issue of climate, municipalities will have an obligation to assess climate considerations. I believe there is a broad uprising in the Storting about this very thing. We have a climate settlement behind us that is very important. In other areas, the State will not intervene or force the municipalities. In some areas it will be that one municipality decides that it can have direct implications for other municipalities, which will feel unfair if the first municipality does not have to take into account, for example. other municipalities in the county. Then we'll have a regional level -- that means at least some of us -- that would be able to go into and see this in a larger context and put down the foot if that's how decisions in one municipality go out on other residents in the same state. And I think that's important and correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e377	On the whole coast, rapporteurs and other municipal politicians are particularly opposed to the building ban in the coastal zone and the dispensation facility. One of the people who's done that is Kurt Olsen, from SV in Lødingen in Nordland, who's signed on a draft. He commends the initiative and believes it is important to find out that the beach zone problem appears differently in the Solution than around Oslo. The SV rapporteur also believes that the municipalities themselves are best placed to manage the coastline. He adds that municipal politicians will not be interested in destroying outdoor life in their own municipality. Many municipalities, such as Lødningen, are relatively desperate to create development and jobs. ‘We need to reverse a negative trend. The beach line is one of the advantages we have, says Olsen. ‘... I totally agree. The question is, why is it not?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e384	I think that if the Right Party and the Advance Party had been somewhat more restrained in this particular matter, and not put things at the head, then also municipal politicians in parts other than the most populated parts of the country would see that here the Government actually adds up to a differentiated practice. In other words, in those areas where there is no strong pressure on the beach zone, we will not have such a restrictive position on this issue. On the contrary, it will be possible to use this in industrial development and development locally. But here in the Oslo area, it's like well over 60 pst. the beach zone has been privatised. In Oslo, 82 pst. privatized, in Asker it is 87.5 pst. And on Nut Island, as I was inside, is 81 pst. by the interior fillet, as I would call it, privatized. It goes directly at the expense of most people, and then we actually have to make a choice, and we have to have some rice behind the mirror.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e391	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e394	I want to focus on universal design. The UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities was adopted at the UN General Assembly in December 2006, and Norway signed it in 2007. Article 9 deals with accessibility for disabled persons. The principle of universal design is central. I'm very happy that we've come there that availability and equivalency are recognised for everyone. Accessibility for people with disabilities is about equality, and it's about human rights. It is very good that universal design is included in the proposal for a purpose clause in the new Planning and Building Act. The construction industry must take over and recognise the principles of universal design. Municipal planning and building authorities are important actors in the implementation of the universal design principle. But - as the whole committee points out in the setting - although all new buildings and installations are immediately designed in line with the principles, it will be a long time before our physical surroundings meet the objectives of universal design. It is therefore very important to facilitate the conversion of existing buildings and structures, inter alia. by using financial resources in the coming budgets to do just that. Then to the beach zone. The government's proposals for tightening up and targeting the practice of building bans in the beach zone are both positive and necessary. It was also the government council Hareide engaged in the Bondevik II government. It is of national interest to ensure the ability of the population to live outdoors in and access to coastal areas. In parts of the country, such as the Oslofjord, the South and the South West, there is an increasing pressure on the beach zone despite the ban on construction. Major natural, cultural and outdoor values are threatened. In other parts of the country, the area of the beach area is so large in relation to the population that the rights of all persons are not impaired even if a somewhat more modest practice is offered in the field of housing and food facilities in these areas. Fewer restrictions here could be a sensible regional policy measure. Creating and providing attractive coastal and coastal areas for housing, tourism and other industrial activities is a capital that needs to be managed in a long-term manner. Adapted lawmaking will also strengthen the legitimacy of a tight coastal zone policy. It is important that we get both stricter enforcement of the law and more differentiated or adapted practice. In total, there will be targeted political governance in this field. The Christian People's Party is pleased about this. Municipalities may lay down provisions limiting the provision of parking facilities in centre areas and other areas with good collective coverage. It is a good and concrete environmental action. It will also make it easier for municipalities to determine the basis of the trajectory choice for roads and public networks. These are practical leads that are easy for the municipalities to comply with and make use of. The Christian People's Party has confidence in local democracy. Similarly, we fully support the Act's paragraph that the Ministry of the Environment can decide that land use for an area should not be changed for a longer period. This provision is to be seen as a tool in securing national targets in the local level work, and such tools are Christian People's Party for. So a little bit to the debate in the hall today. The Right Party and the Advance Party have been very concerned about the development of purchasing centres in this country. And I ask myself, what is this concern? It's a claim that I've heard being made that we have malls and shops that can serve a population of 20 million people in Norway. It may be an exaggeration, but it is at least right that we have too much space for shopping malls, and we have an excessive consumption in Norway today, so I don't understand the cause of the concern if it turns out that there are now fewer shopping centres in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e422	Spatial planning and land management are among the municipalities’ main tasks. A good planning and building law will be an important hub for municipalities in planning the area in the municipality for the best possible use for their future challenges. Local authorities are required to carry out a number of tasks through planning, and sound planning will provide adequate framework conditions for individuals, enterprises and public authorities in each municipality. It is important to develop municipalities into good areas to live, work, create values and live in, because we all live in a municipality. For the Centre Party, it has been important that a Joint Committee is so clear that the principles of open and prudent processes of participation are the basis for planning and societal development. Not least, it is important that a broad majority in the Committee clearly state that the political decisions should be taken as closely as possible to them as possible, and that local democracy is the cornerstone of a living government. It is also important that the plurality determines that all planning under this law should be governed by elected bodies following democratic and involved processes. Let me also mention that the goal of universal design is part of the purpose paragraph, and we in the Center Party believe that both public and private interests must take on this objective. Some of the laws have been particularly committed around us, including the law. shall be administered by the management of the land in the coastal zone. The centre party has been working for a long time for a differentiated beach zone management. In parts of the country there is strong pressure on beach sonals. I think most of us see that not all municipalities have managed the great value that strandsona make, at their best. But most municipalities actually have managed beach sonals in a sensible way, and then it's important that the laws and regulations of central government take over that very thing. While in some parts of the country it is difficult for individuals and families to visit the beach sonar without coming close to other people's dwellings--and in some cases actually encounter obstacles-- in other parts of the country there are miles of untouched beach area. In many municipalities, beach sonas have been used actively for busses and business development, and most of them have been the right use of beach sonas. In areas outside the press areas, municipalities are required to have regulations to ensure that they both have unexploited beach areas and that coastal zones are essential for the overall use of the land to ensure bustness and value creation. In this way, they do not feel the need to adhere to the same rigid regulatory framework as the press areas are rightly imposed. A broad majority today says that state guidelines for such a geographically differentiated coastal zone policy should be developed. Just like that, the government ensures rules that take over the huge differences we have in our country. So to some other important moments. The centre party is pleased that the majority of the committee supports the fact that laws should be central to the design of motorcycling plans and that a clear statement is made that municipal and regional governance should assign motorcycling to the outlanders by means of the planning and building laws. Norway, in addition, has committed itself to strong objectives in climate policy by means of the climate agreement. Local authorities have great potential to help us achieve jointly the targets we have set for emission reduction. It has been the government's goal that the new planning and building law should be one of several good tools for the municipalities in their work to achieve these objectives. I have to add that when the representative Skovholt Gitmark from this chair says that the planning and building laws have no effect on climate work and the reduction of climate emissions, he has to read the promise better. Finally, let me just briefly mention that it is important that the Government has determined that if there are to be specific restrictions on the edge zones around the protected areas, this should be done in connection with the introduction or revision of the areas, and it is in our view to ensure that one has a high level of protection policy with processes that are actually possible for fundamental owners and communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e445	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e448	It is in itself a point to notice that the representative, as far as I could get with me, was not in the windmill and does not want to talk about it. I have a great deal of understanding for that. But then the representative says that we see that some municipalities have mismanaged the beach zone. And then, as central politicians in Oslo, you assume you have an opinion about how to manage the beach zone. It's basically an approach that I wasn't aware of, that the Center Party had, but it's okay to get it confirmed. But then I ask the representative Sande if he knows that it's a law we're dealing with now, and not a regulation; so it's the government that's dealing with it. We could make a law that made us get differentiated management. We haven't done that now. On the other hand, we have created a law that will force the municipality of Austevoll in Hordaland to build with wind turbines, and so you lose the right to manage your own beach zone. Can the representative Sande explain to me how these things relate?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e457	I honestly mean that if a municipality would do well to build down the entire beach zone, yes, it's a bad beach zone management. That also means the Center Party, but then we assume that the country is not unique, and so we want a differentiated, customised code. But what surprises me is that the Progress Party - because it's right that the law means a clarification and tightening of exemptions and exceptions - expresses that it's where local democracy is, that local democracy is in exception and dispensations. I want to say that there is at least the same amount in planning, even more in planning, because planning contains broad processes where people really get the most involved and express what they want their municipality to look like and how the area management in that municipality is going to be. It would have been interesting to see the right representative Lien's vision: if a municipality could well build down the entire street, did Lien think it was a sensible and good beach management?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e470	Now it's the replicator who asks questions, not the one who keeps the post. It's interesting what the representative Sande says, because it's not like we're looking at it with exemptions. We are concerned that the Central Party today is voting for a ban on construction in the coastal zone, so that everything that is to be done in the coastal zone below depends on the approval of the Council of State, for that is how this law will work in practice. Then you say you have to have a differentiated beach zone management that opens up for a greater freedom some places. Then I come back to the fishing municipality of Austevoll in North Hordland. Is this municipality going to be subject to a strict or less stringent administration? Where will the limit go, and who will decide it? Is it the councillor, Solheim, is it the Stortinget, or is it the county council?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e479	The representative Sande will be allowed to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e483	The representative, Lien, can be sure that the coastal zone in much of this country will continue to be actively used to ensure the formation, to ensure nutritional development, and does not promise that it is impossible to do so. I'm surprised - I must say frankly - that Tord Lien does not care that a broad majority in the committee says that for the first time, Austevoll, Andøya and other municipalities that may have less stress in the beach zone will experience being treated on the basis of their own regulations, but on the basis of their own regulations. They don't have to stick to just a common, rigid code that happens all over a comb. The Center Party and I are particularly pleased that so much of the committee says that this is the way to go for further beach area management.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e490	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e493	There is a great need to modernise the planning system in today's planning and building law. That modernisation contributes to the new law. The legislative proposal has a new structure. The law has become easier to understand and easier to use. At the bottom of the law are important principles such as transparency, predictability and participation. That is an important principle for the Left. The law has a broad societal perspective. It shall promote sustainable development for the benefit of individuals, society and future generations. The left will also stress that the principle of universal design should be respected in planning. The climate problem has an impact on the design of planning systems and plans. Spatial planning provides an opportunity to influence greenhouse gas emissions, in particular from the transport sector and stationary energy use. I think None of the Marte Thorkildsen in a good way made visible the opportunities this plan provides for more offensive local climate work. I responded to the first article of Peter Skovholt Gitmark, where he zeroed out the significance this might have for the climate work. I was then more uplifted by Gitmark’s ‘audited’, which made it clear that there is a room for action in the law that should be used in climate work. Local democracy and issues related to division of labour between different levels of government have been very central to the work of the Committee, and it also characterises the position we are dealing with today. For the Left, it is an important principle that political decisions are taken as closely as possible to them as possible. Local democracy is a pillar of the living regime. That is why the local people's regime must be strengthened. The left has been a driver in this area. We're going to keep doing that, because there's still a lot of work going on here, and that's a great potential for improvement. In some areas, however, national interests have to provide a framework for the local government. Coastal zone policy is such an area. This is a matter of public concern in front of other interests. The left has long been a champion of the building ban in the hundred meter belt, and I agree with the tightening up to which it is placed in areas where the beach zone is under strong pressure. Here I believe that practice has been contrary to the intention of the law. In essence, it is the same reality that the former law wanted to preserve. What one now wants to avoid is a practice that undermines the construction ban. I am very concerned that government guidelines are being developed for a geographically differentiated coastal zone policy that takes into account the disparities along the coast. The reference that comes from the Committee here, I believe, opens up a more differentiated policy than what we have had in the past, and so it opens up for greater local variation and greater room for those who make local decisions. I think such a differentiated policy is of great importance in creating legitimacy for what should be a tight coastal zone policy, where public interests are under pressure. The left considers that the Government's proposal to remove the municipal planning authority's responsibility for small energy plants and wind turbines is not sufficiently justified. Here, local democracy is set aside without evidence that it is necessary for general reasons. The left therefore goes against the Government's proposal at this point. We need wind power expansion, and in some places it's controversial. Then it is important that the municipalities are heard, not overrun. Increased resistance can be the result of a planing system that gives the impression that things have to be determined centrally. I would also like to stress the importance it has of introducing a new provision on social security in line with what the Planning Committee proposed. Now it will be mandatory to carry out a social security and vulnerability assessment in relation to draft plans, and that is what we in the Left believe is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e521	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e524	It was interesting to hear what the representative of Kvassheim concluded, namely that in windmill cases the municipalities should be heard and not run over. In the famous example from Austevoll, which has been used several times, one knows that the municipality was initially positive to three out of four wind turbines, but was imposed on all fours and thus said no to all fours. The Progress Party then promoted a proposal that municipalities should have a kind of veto right in such cases, to show that a respected local democracy. That was against the Left. It would have been very good if the left could now figure out where they really stand. Is it just empty rhetoric that is now coming, to give some sort of verbal support to Austevoll, or are you willing to put power behind the words and say that the municipalities are actually going to have a real influence when there is a purely local wind power project planned?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e531	The left, like any party other than the Progress Party, has voted against, is giving the municipalities the right to veto. What we are discussing today is who should be responsible for this type of development. That's when I say that I think it will give the impression that the local considerations are being undermined if you carry out the transfer of responsibility that the Government is opening up to. In addition, it is my position that wind power development in Norway should be based on state-of-the-art plans, where local authorities have made representations and sorted according to the facilities they want and which they do not want. Then I think the sum of this is that the local considerations are well taken care of. So it'll still be so that concessions are given centrally. But my advice to those who grant concessions is that one places great emphasis on the local views and priorities of the county plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e536	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e539	The government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left are today united to implement a very important law, which responds to the challenge of a conference I attended yesterday in Bonn, in Germany, where Chancellor Merkel was the main initiator, and which was the International Conference on Biological Diversity. What threatens biodiversity in the world is not evil. It's not that anyone wants to eradicate species, but it's a consistent bit of bit-policy where in every context you always give the economic interests priority over the whole interest or the public interest or people most or next generation, or whatever we want to call it. This plan law provides a completely different instrument to address the diversity of species we want and to address climate considerations in local planning. I am pleased with what was called the Revised Gitmark - that also the Right then ends up about it. This is also a plan that not only provides the opportunity to take better account of very important natural and environmental interests. There is also a plan to strengthen local democracy, because it gives local government greater opportunities for real, long-term planning in its areas, rather than making decisions ad hoc in the form of dispensations in different contexts. Providing opportunities for greater planning, a planning process with greater transparency, strengths and weaknesses in local democracy. It also strengthens the understanding of what one’s own municipality stands for. The reality is that the more I listen to this debate, the more I see this as a fundamental ideological difference. The three governmental parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left stand up for the environment for the next generation and for the people most, while the Progress Party, but also to a large extent the Right, places particular emphasis on fundamental ownership interests and what in many local contexts will be strong economic interests in this division. The thing that might most clearly show you is the debate on the beach zone. This is not a debate on the need to have the same coastal zone policy throughout the country. No one wants it. No one wants us to do the same in Asker and Bærum, in Nut Island and in Tjøme, as in Lødningen or in Loppa. There's a differentiated beach zone policy that we're basing on. It's a policy where you won't bite by bit build Norway down without any plan. This law gives the municipalities access and possibility to plan on the basis of - yes, a restrictive starting point, but a plan for any expansion in their territory and get it approved. That plan will then also be available to the public. Then we're going to establish a regulatory framework for differentiated guidelines that makes it clear that the same policy is not expected in different parts of the country. What we're avoiding with this is what's really happening today, that the beach zone is being expanded on the basis of dispensation. If the coastal zone is extended, it shall be based on a plan, which takes account of local interests and planning options, taking into account the considerations at any location. In order for this not to be too easy for the opposition, I feel that we also need to focus a searchlight on what the Right Party and the Advance Party actually want. Specially the Progress Party argues harshly to remove the county level. What we don't hear about is what this means for the municipal level. And that is what is fundamental in this debate. What does it mean for the municipal level - if the municipal level is not just for all practical purposes to have much less power - to remove the county council, but to transfer all power to Oslo? If the municipal level is to have more power, it must mean larger municipalities. I challenge the Advance Party and the Right to present a plan of which Norwegian municipalities you want. The representative Tord Line can start with the South Dream Team and tell the voters what that means. Is it that the Middle Gauldal and the Holtål are to be placed under Røros? Is it that Selbu and Tidal are to be placed under Stjørdalen? Is it supposed to be one Fosen municipality? Do you want Oppdal to be placed under the Orkdalen - maybe together with Meldal? Let's see what that means for the South-Tronde Team, as a starting point in an overall plan for a municipal merger from the Right and the Advance Party. When the plan is available, we will have a realistic debate on the desire of the government parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left for three levels versus the desire for two levels in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e559	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e562	Let me start by saying that I think the Council of State is in a good plan for how we can structure South-Tread layers after the 2009 elections, because the Advance Party wants larger municipalities. If exactly the municipal mergers proposed by the Council of State were very practical, I guess I'm more in doubt about. The Council of State spoke of this as an ideological struggle. I believe that there must then be the struggle between those of us who trust and believe in the central power, and those who believe in the local power and local democracy--healthy folklore locally. It is the strong economic interests - as the Council of State spoke about - that maintain the housing and value creation in large parts of Norway. And in many places it's the beach zone that makes up the most important part of the area. Austevoll - once again - is an example of this. Here are completely contradictory signals from the representative of Thorkildsen on the one hand and the representative of Sande on the other. So I'd like to see the Council of State explain to me where the boundaries are really going, and how in practice you want to liberalize beach zone management in parts of the country. [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e572	I did not perceive that there were significantly different signals from Inga Marte Thorkildsen and from Erling Sande, on the contrary. I believe that it is both important to want a restrictive coastal zone policy, in order to safeguard the public interest. Everyone shall have the right to take part in the amazingness of Norwegian nature along the coast. The representative Sande stressed very strongly that you can't eat this on behalf of the next generation, that you have a responsibility for it as well. Both also stressed the importance of a differentiated coastal zone policy, which is that one has a different policy in Lødingen than in Asker and the Nøtterøy and Tønsberg area or along the south coast than it is necessary to have in Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e577	I want to give the Council of State exactly the right thing: there is an ideological battle going on. This case shows very clearly that the Right Party and the Advance Party are standing up and fighting both for the individual and for the municipal self-government, while unfortunately we see that the government parties and others stand up and fight for the state power. We see that there is local government that is opposed to flooding, and that county officials and county councils will be more likely to overrun the municipalities. What we're going to see in the future is municipal autonomy under increased pressure. And I can't understand -- even with my best goodwill -- how the Council of States can say that this law will increase local autonomy, especially when we see that so many local politicians along the coast have now rebelled against the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e584	Firstly, I would like to present the same challenge to the representative of Gitmark as to the Progress Party: present the plan for the municipal merger of the two Agder counties, so that we can have a concrete basis for comparison with what is the Right Local Management System, and what is the Government Party's local governance system! I don't expect a plan for the whole country, but you can start with the plan for the Agder states. Then we can discuss the two real options on that basis. At the end, this is a little bit about the vision of democracy. I feel that the vision presented here by the Right and the Advance Party - if you want to take it in extreme form - is the kind of democracy that existed in ancient Greece. There was quite enough democracy in the individual city, but there was no authority to see it all in context. There are a number of things in society that we humans want, that we in our community want -- but we prefer it to be with someone else. Taking care of all-man rights is just one of those things. After all, the representative Gitmark opened the door in a wide gap in order to leave everyone’s right to the practice of each municipality. [[The President clubs.]] If all-man rights are not respected at national level, there will soon be nothing left of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e593	There's been a lot of talk about ideological struggles. It may seem that there is an ideological struggle between those who believe that most people are the ones who today - according to their interest - challenge the public, and us in the Left, who believe that the "most people" are not yet born. That's a little bit of the perspective we need on the question of nurturing natural interests for the next generation. I want to give the Council the opportunity to say a little bit more about the work on the differentiated coastal zone policy. First of all, I want a confirmation that it will be given a real content -- that it is not just an opportunity that has been given. Secondly, it might be interesting to hear a little about the time perspective for this. I think it's important that a get given it a real content -- and not create uncertainty, as some people are now trying to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e600	First of all, I want to give Gunnar Kvassheim the right perspective that most people are not yet born is a very good perspective. The people who live today alone, because of the unimaginable population growth, make up a very large proportion of all people in the whole history of the world who have lived. The vast majority of people are -- hopefully -- people who are not yet born. Let's have that perspective in several of the decisions we're making. It'll be useful. I agree with many of the principal considerations about wind turbines that Kvassheim brought in earlier. The starting point cannot be to dictate as many windmills as possible in the municipalities. The starting point must be as much as possible to listen to local wishes and local views in the case of windmills - but in the last round have an opportunity to dictate it, if it is not possible to do so on the basis of the sensible local decision. And then finally, yes, we're going to provide guidelines for a differentiated coastal zone policy. I cannot say exactly how quickly the guidelines will come, but of course they will come in the near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e609	Unfortunately, the Minister for the Environment appears to be a rhetorical figure when he paints the position of the Party of Advancement and the Right. I want to draw his attention to the proposals of the Advance Party regarding the coastal zone, i.e. the first paragraph of Section 1-8 should be replaced by the following: ‘In maritime areas where open-air life has traditionally been practised, regulation shall take into account the possibility of free movement for the general public. ‘... The interests which the Minister for the Protection of the Environment calls for from the Progress Party have therefore been safeguarded. What we are responding to is that the state should be able to override it even more. There is no doubt that this legislation is stricter. It is more stringent for all municipalities. For some it will be very much more stringent, for others just a little bit more stringent. It's not like you can get the impression that some municipalities here get away as easily as they always have, but how strict it gets is up to the regulations of the Government. Unfortunately, the Storting doesn't get anything to say. It's going to be very interesting to see if the representative Sande is standing by this, when he's in opposition in the next period.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e621	The government is in favour of a strict policy in this area, but not the same strict policy for the whole country. The starting point is to try to take care of the coastal zone in Norway for future generations and for the general public. But the country is very different, and in parts of the country this consideration is less important because there is much more nature to take off, much less pressure on it. There, a more relaxed attitude to it will be provided. But I refuse to accept that we in this assembly will only discuss the government's policy. It's time we sometimes discuss the opposition's policy. That's why I've come up with the challenge of community reunification. I would also like to kick the ball back to Solvik-Olsen, which in the past obviously meant, as I understood him, that in the case of Stryn and Wefsna - that is, major natural interventions which have a huge impact on the right to outdoor life, the right to natural and environmental development in Norway - the decisions were to be purely municipal. Where are we? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e630	The President will ask representatives and state councils to stick to speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e633	I note that the Council of State is very pleased with itself and its inventiveness about the Progress Party and the municipal merger. In fact, it is mentioned in the preamble that the Party of Advancement takes this into account. So he should probably not get too much credit, just, to have read the setting. In the case of wind turbines, wind turbines are taken out from most of the scope of the Planning and Building Act. This means that important national considerations are no longer needed to force municipalities to develop wind turbines, because the Planning and Building Act imposes such a restriction on state regulation. In the future, that will not be the case. Is this a change the Government proposes because the Government has come to the conclusion that there is no argument that windmills need to be developed, based on important national considerations?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e642	We're at the beginning of a windmill development in Norway. There are not many that are built-in, and it is very early to know what the local reaction will be like in practice, also to what extent they will cause local disadvantages. I think we're going to let that debate go a little bit and give people experience with windmills. But the starting point is, of course, that the local attitude to windmill development must be an essential factor in the location of wind farms, and what is national policy in this area. But as with many other benefits, it cannot be an absolute local veto right, because we have some overall national considerations that must also be taken into account. So it's true that I'm happy to have brought into the debate the policy of the Progress Party, because it's too often so that the Progress Party is allowed to just stand and find fault with everyone else. It's the party world champion in. But it's not a difficult exercise. What is difficult is to formulate a policy for which the country can be governed, and it has the Progress Party in this area only when the party tells the world which municipalities we should have in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e649	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e653	Both Ot.prp. No 32 for 2007-2008 on the Planning and Building Act and its setting are two good documents. Municipalities get clearer rules so that they can make reasonable and good choices for their citizens. Equally important is that we have clear rules to address the environment and climate, which are the challenges of the future. No municipality will probably be marked as a worst in terms of using bit-by-bit areas that are finally closed to the public in terms of access to attractive areas, not least in the coastal zone. We know that the Riksrevision has assessed the land management in the beach zone. Everyone is well aware of the conclusions. There is a large-scale reduction of the beach zone along the sea, and many given exemptions should never have been granted. It is now important that all municipalities know their visiting times and draw up spatial plans in line with the legislation which clearly identifies which areas can be built and which areas cannot be built. The Labour Party is very concerned to see the country as it is, with the inequalities that geography has given us. It is important that the majority at Stortinget ask the State to develop planning guidelines for a geographically differentiated coastal zone policy that takes account of the differences in our more than 430 municipalities. This means that municipalities with specific challenges for future settlement and growth will be able to include the stranded zone in a comprehensive development strategy. With local self-government, this will create both a diversity of solutions and local commitment to the population. Furthermore, the Planning and Building Act is an important tool to reduce our climate challenges through different modes of transport and energy use, such as: waterborne heat. The Law on Planning and Building will also be an important tool for the forthcoming law on motor travel in the field. The Directorate for Nature Management proposes to oblige municipalities to draw up motor travel plans using the Planning and Building Act. Thus, the Law on Planning and Building will be the best tool for municipalities to bring the driving to areas where this does not conflict with the environment and the need for silence as far as possible. Norway has gradually acquired many protected areas. In some municipalities protected areas cover over 70 pst. of the area. Helgeland in Nordland has such municipalities. Now Statskog SF, through the county, is in the process of identifying the country's forest areas, and we can expect further protection. This can create major problems in the future for the chip factory Arbor in Hattfjelldal, a corner stone company in the municipality, and Ne's timber mill at Lake Mos, which delivers tile to Arbor. I hope to be able to solve such issues through the legislation we are now adopting, and the opportunities expressed in terms of industrial activities in the peripheral zone, which are not additional protected areas, but areas that should be used for the pursuit of nutrition. This is part of the Government's district policy. Finally, I have to enter the Right and Advance Party. One should think there was a slot in the disc when reading the setting. The review melody is: These members oppose the Government's proposal. How many times it says to read, I haven't counted, but it's unfortunate reading-- mostly because of one thing: the resistance to the regional level. I just want to remind the Right Party and the Progress Party that Vice-President of the Norwegian Labour Party and Head of the Programme Committee, Helga Pedersen, have said that in the future more tasks will be added to the regional level - because we will continue after 2009. Why argue with something that is a reality? Why not also contribute to a nationwide planning and building law having broad approval in the Stortinget? I am pleased that at least the Christian People's Party and the Left want results for the benefit of most people. This tells us that there is a long way between the opposing parties, and that there is an outcrystalline between the left and the right of Norwegian politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e676	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e679	Unlike the Right Party and the Advance Party believe, there are today many, especially in municipalities and counties, who say: Finally. In 1996 and 1997, the Stortinget asked for a review of the planning provisions. One main question at the time was how to ensure sustainable development through planning in all the meanings of the word - environmental, social, economic and cultural. There's no small ambition, but it's not out of range. But the assumption is a good plan tool. And then what is that? Well, it's a tool that ensures completeness and long-termity, that there will be fewer sectoral plans, which unfortunately often burst a little, that it is possible for local and regional elected peoples to adapt government expectations and demands through a local tailor-made seam, run by the elected people and not by the administration. The latter may not be strong enough to be emphasised, but it is an important additional assumption: governance through open-plan processes, where it facilitates the participation of most people, for example. children and young people in their own way, including in the case of private plans. But, unfortunately, planning doesn't always have an equally good sound in everyone's ears. Many are the local politicians who have been very frustrated, who have participated in long planning processes that are zeroed out with a quick objection or two, three, four or five on the tamp, which are often not even coordinated. A major improvement is being made in this area by new legislation because all actors are required to participate in planning in their own field. It also benefits municipalities with low planning capacity - conflicts arise early, and it will strengthen popular governance. One of the most important things may still be the demand for a municipal planning strategy, where one of the first years that elected the people gets an overview that I'm going to claim they're all, most of them have been missing to now. The same thing has to happen in the county. This means that there are parallel processes at both levels that in turn increase the ability of municipalities to contribute to relevant planning at regional level. When regional planning is perceived as relevant, it also strengthens the ability of state policies to take on the role of regional development actors in a proper way that can be achieved, in addition to the somewhat random list of tasks that they have received from us so far. When a strengthens regional or local planning, one also strengthens our ability to achieve national targets, for a very large number of them are realized out there. I totally disagree with the claims of the Progressive Party and the Right that the new law strengthens the central power against local democracy. On the contrary, there is a space for action, and there are creations of arenas that shift power from administration to politics. But it obviously requires that you have politicians out there who will take the power to which it is added.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e692	I think we'll be aware that the truth is probably a little bit dependent on which shoes we're wearing and where we're from. When we talk about local government, we also have to take over and understand that there is a big difference between municipalities in Norway, depending on where they are. I would like to refer here to the municipality of Porsanger, which has a size like Eastfold, Akershus, Oslo and a little more. That's 60 pst. of the areas already connected. On the other 40 pst. It carries out reindeer operations and reindeer movements. When the Council of State and the representative of the Central Party believe that we should have a land management based on a plan, I must therefore ask: In relation to what plan can Porsanger municipality manage its areas? The areas are already connected. There's a big problem, because what's the truth in a part of the country is going to be completely wrong on another side. As for the rhetoric of the Workers' Party, where you talk about which party is for most people, I want to say, when you give the Sameting right of objection, I want to remind you that it's 14 pst. of the population of Finland who vote for the Sameton, in Troms there are 2.2 pst., in Northern Ireland 0.42 pst. And there are fewer in the tropics and in the dungeons. Then a disproportionate amount of power is allocated to a small part of the population where we know that most people want municipal autonomy. I don't know if you can call it discrimination against the majority, but at least it has very little to do with democracy. The whole thing and the clean-up management are like hands in gloves. I would like to quote the Vice President of Odelsting, who is slaughtering the right to object in Finnmark and Reinhold's administration, where they stop mining with a gross income of SEK 1.5 billion and 20 jobs because this was a particular Sami interest. He says to the NRK that the reindeer industry today has only one function, as a cultural carrier, it is not compatible with other industries in Finland.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e701	It is the relatively unsubstantiated behaviour of the Minister for the Environment that makes me want to speak. I think the Council of State should soon grow up in such debates, treat the counter-debateants with respect and not assign them idiotic positions on every occasion. In the case of Wefsna and Stryn, as I mentioned in my first line to the Workers' Party, I never said that this should be a municipal matter. What I used Stryn and Wefsna as examples were large power projects that are being scrapped by this government, and it's obviously not the force that's the most important thing. Of course, projects across more than one local border should have to be adopted and treated either regionally or stately - if there are large projects. We've never said anything else. Trying to attach ourselves to such a position makes no sense. What was used as an example is that when you have a small project within a municipal border, such as Austevoll, it makes no sense to force them to accept the project when there is no force in many other places. Governments needed to challenge the Advance Party. I can reassure the Council of State that it will get him plenty of occasion if he makes re-election for SV in the next period. Then he can challenge many government councils from the Advancement Party in a string changer in this room. If the wish is to find out what the Advancement Party stands for, I would rather recommend the Council of State to read the setting, which he obviously has not done, from many of his statements to judge. There, the Progress Party has promoted a number of comprehensive alternative proposals that show that we want to take care of many of the same interests that government parties are trying to pursue, but we believe in other instruments. We believe in local democracy instead of central governance. When the Minister for Environmental Protection asks the Advance Party to name which municipalities are to be merged, it is completely irrelevant for the purpose of showing direction. Then you might as well ask the question back: Name where this government is going to build kindergartens to fulfill its call for full child care coverage. I'm not doing that, because it's completely unreasonable, because it's a process where the solution will come eventually. You can't just point it at the front. What is nevertheless the most perceptive in this debate is not that the Minister for the Environment argues as he always does, but it is that the Central Party completely refuses to express its opinion on what they think about the windmill trap they are now introducing. Even the left, which is very offensive in the construction of windmills, says that this is problematic as the law of the plan and the building now becomes. The Central Party has avoided dealing with the proposal at any time in this debate. It shows very clearly that this is not what the Minister for the Environment says, that there is a broad consensus between the Centre Party and SV. I think you can bet two quarts of chocolate milk that as soon as these parties come into opposition, they will split in their own direction and try to make changes in what they now think is a big, good compromise to get this case adopted. So, in the Austevol case, it's not about a press community. That's where the municipality should be able to control its own land. I'm afraid they won't.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e716	The President will ask that the representative, when describing the arguments of the Council of State, use a parliamentary expression rather than the kind of expression used in the speech. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox Sigvald Uppøen Hansen took this again over the Presidential seat. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e730	The regulatory time for the morning meeting is over, and I guess so. The President will propose that the Odelstinget carry out the vote - and see it as agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e738	Eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Tord Lien on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right Proposal No. 2 and 3, by Tord Lien on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals No. 4-6, by Peter Skovholt Gitmark on behalf of Right, Christian People's Party and Left Proposal No. 7, by Peter Skovholt Gitmark on behalf of Right and Left Proposal No. 8, from Peter Skovholt Gitmark on behalf of Right
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e810	There will be a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Planning and Construction Act, § 6-4 State Area Plan, third paragraph, is replaced by the following: The Ministry may decide on a case-by-case basis that the final concession to hydroelectric power generation plants with a capacity of more than 10 MW produced by the Energy Act, the Water Resource Act or the Waterways Regulatory Act shall have no further effect as a State spatial plan. [[(Planning and building law) (Planning part)]] The decisions of the Ministry referred to in this paragraph shall not be subject to appeal. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e827	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 4 - 6, from Right, Christian People's Party and Left. Proposal No. 4 sounds: «In Law 14 December 1917 No. 17 on watercourse regulations the fifth paragraph of Section 2 shall be replaced by the following: The Ministry may decide that any power generation plant with a capacity of more than 10 MW produced with a final concession under this Act shall without delay have effect as a state spatial plan under the Planning and Building Act § 6-4. [[Watercourse Regulatory Act]] ‘... Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘In Law No 29 June 1990 50 on the production, transformation, turnover, distribution and use of energy, etc. § 3-1 new fourth paragraph shall be replaced by the following: The Ministry may decide that any hydroelectric power plant with a capacity of more than 10 MW produced with a final concession under this Act, which is not exempted from the Law on Planning and Building under the third paragraph, shall have no further effect as a State spatial plan under § 6-4 of the Law on Planning and Building. [[Energy Act]] ‘... Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘In Law No 24 November 2000 82 on watercourses and groundwater, the second sentence of the fourth paragraph of Section 22 shall be replaced by the following: The watercourse authority may decide that any power generation plant with a capacity of more than 10 MW produced with a final concession under this Act shall without delay have effect as a state spatial plan under the Planning and Building Act § 6-4. [[water resource laws]] ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e860	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e898	There will be so much talk about proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second sentence of the second paragraph of Section 1-6 of the Act on Planning and Processing of Construction shall be deleted. [[(Planning and building law) (Planning part)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e1058	So we're going to the committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e2981	We start with Chapter 1, Section 1-8, fifth paragraph, and Chapter 19, Section 19-4. Right has notice that they want to voice against.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e2996	Chapter 1 § 1-8, second, third and fourth paragraphs, Chapter 3 § 3-1, first subparagraph, points (a), (b), (c) and (f), Chapter 5 § 5-4, third paragraph, Chapter 6 § 6-4, second paragraph, and Chapter 11 § 11-11, paragraphs 5th@item: inlistbox The progress party has notified that they wish to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e3010	Chapter 3 § 3-5, first and fourth paragraphs, Chapter 5 § 5-3 and Section 5-4, fourth paragraph, Chapter 6 § 6-1, Section 6-2 and Section 6-3, Chapter 9 § 9-4 and Section 9-7, Chapter 11 § 11-8 and Sections 11-18, Chapter 12 § 12-6 and Sections 12-13, Chapter 19 § 19-2, second, third, fourth and fifth paragraphs, and Chapter 7 and Chapter 8 as a whole. The progress party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e3024	So it's going to be over the rest of chapter 9. The progress party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e3038	The third sentence of Chapter 12 §12-1, third paragraph, and the fifth paragraph of Section 12-4, are thus worded. The party of progress, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e3053	Chapter 35, Section 35-1, Section 10, Energy Law, Section 3-1, new fourth paragraph, and Section 15, Water Resource Law, Section 22, fourth paragraph, second sentence. The progress party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e3067	So it's going to be over the rest of the sections and the sections in chapters 1, 3, 5, 6, 11, 12, 19 and 35, the whole chapters 2, 4, 10, 13, 14, 15 and 34, and all the sections. In the course of the debate a correction was made to Chapter 35, point 5, where the recommendation states:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e3086	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e3096	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29-lower.ana.ud2329e3108	There is no record available. Is there anyone who demands the word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the meeting is cancelled? - It's not.
