ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e27	The scale industry carries out a number of important societal tasks that create greater security for the population and that it is unrealistic to believe will be left to the public alone. Just look at Karl Johan, where the police are mostly absent - except during the tourist season. Here you can see far more weights today than you've ever seen in the police department. The police seem to have given up or will not be present, and the result is that business first has to pay high taxes and taxes to society, and now you also have to pay the weighting industry for the tasks that the police and society should have done. - This was a heart attack in frustration about what the police have been like. Since business and soon private individuals may have to take steps to hire people from the weighting industry, it is incredibly important that this industry behaves in a clean and reliable manner and that control of this sector and its employees needs to be improved in the form of enhanced regulation and effective control procedures that allow enforcement. The Progress Party therefore supports the reference made by the proposers to the importance of reviewing and clarifying the boundaries of the rules of private law and the need for good control procedures in a strong growth industry. Lack of regulation and control may result in adverse elements entering the weighting industry. The Progress Party is pleased that the Council of State is now reviewing the regulatory framework for watchkeeping with a view to clearer regulation of the industry. In addition, I would like to refer to the joint proposal, with all the points, from the Right Party and the Advance Party, which I hope the Council of State will notice and take with it in its further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e42	In recent times, in the media, as the proposers point out, we have been able to read stories about instruments that have crossed the line of reasonable use of power. Also addicts and sellers of =Oslo have stood up with stories of weights that exercise a disproportionate amount of power. SV is concerned about such developments and is pleased that, through the Soria Moria Declaration, government parties state that the legislation on watchkeeping activities should be reviewed in order to ensure better quality and control of private watchkeeping companies. As pointed out in the vote, the Government has signalled that a working group will present its report by June this year. In the review of the legislation, it is natural that current legislation relating to the use of power is both set out and assessed whether it is necessary to further clarify the limits on the use of power and its use. The strictest enforcement by the authorities shall be exercised by the public through the police. This has been stated in the Soria Moria Declaration by SV and the other two government parties. The balance of power in the public space shall be favoured by the police and the public. I want to show that the red-green government has increased the police budgets by about 500 million. kr for the period 2006-2008. The admission to Police College has been record high, with 432 students in 2007 - a recording that has continued this year. By increasing educational capacity, we will ensure a close, strong and visible police in the future. The government has also started work to address the educational and staffing needs of the police and civil servants until 2015. The proposers wish to review the training for the weighing instruments. By letter of 22 January this year, the Council of State has indicated that the question of training and assessments relating to the intensification of training requirements and the content of training for the weighing instruments is central to the review of legislation by that working group. It is important that watchkeeping is conducted by serious actors. We can ensure this seriousness through a review of the Act on vigilance in order to ensure better quality and control of private watchkeeping companies. This is particularly important in order to ensure the legal certainty of those coming into contact with weighing instruments, in the interests of those purchasing weighing instruments services, and, of course, in the interests of the serious actors in the watchkeeping activities. We in SV look forward to the work and report of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e57	Over time, we in the media have been able to read and see images of instruments that exercise a disproportionate amount of power when attacking suspects. Last autumn, 23 November 2007, the Gatemagasinet = Oslo organised a seminar on security and cooperation in Oslo Centre. At the seminar, sellers told how they were treated by the police. Many had poor experience with weights. These sellers told about the widespread use of handcuffs, and that they were involuntarily taken into enclosed rooms in case of suspicion of criminal offences. We can't have it that way. The left considers that these examples underline the need for clearer rules as to when and to what extent those carrying out acquisitional watchkeeping activities may use different types of power to the citizen. The use of instruments has increased dramatically in recent years, particularly in the capital, but also in other cities. There is reason to stress that a minority of these instruments are assigned on the street and in connection with public-access buildings. I just want to point out that there is a comprehensive regulatory framework for police access to coercive measures, and then it becomes a paradox that there are now far more guards than the police in the streets of the capital without any further regulation of what weights can and are going to do. Against this background, the Left considers it necessary to clarify and regulate when and to what extent weights may use coercive agents. According to Section 8 of the Act on Watchkeeping, the person to perform the watch must complete approved training for weighing instruments. The detailed training requirements shall be laid down in the Regulation. That is why it is a pleasure for the Minister of Justice to take this into account, as has been pointed out earlier in the debate, but the Left is impatient and wants to get it going. In the view of the Left, training for weighing instruments should be reviewed, in particular for those patrolling in the public space, to see whether the training is satisfactory in terms of lawful and illegal use of power in service. The left sees a clear need for authorities to control the watchkeeping companies to a greater extent than is currently being done. In addition, regulations on the use of power in the performance of duties should be laid down in the Act of Watchfulness. Those rules should provide for the use of means of power by weights and others in service, the circumstances in which power can be used, and simple unbureaucratic reporting procedures to the police in the event of seizure or use of power. Clear rules must be laid down as to how the person being taken is to be stored and treated. The left is not on the committee. I will therefore give tribute to the Advancement Party and Right for their work on the matter. The left will vote in favour of the proposal by the Right and the Progressive Party in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e76	It is rare that we have a debate where everyone agrees that we need more control and regulation. Sometimes there are dividing lines in this room right at that point, but not in this debate, so it promises well. On the part of the Christian People's Party, I would just like to say that, to the extent that we vote in favour of the minority proposal, with all the points that the rapporteur has also made. Not least, there is a need for an increase in the interface between the police and the type of business we are talking about here. I see that the government is working on this and has set up a separate working group to make an adjustment in just one month. We can't see that a sample can get too good input into its work, and that kind of input can also be the minority proposal, even if it's not adopted, in that way. Otherwise, it might be tempting to have a more general debate on why we've had such a great need for so many weightings, and what social control functions are not present to the same extent now as before, but we'll have to take that on another occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e87	First of all, I would like to point out that the Soria Moria Declaration has already set out and announced a necessary review of the Act on watchkeeping with a view to clearer regulation. The work currently being done in the ministry is therefore not necessarily the result of the proposal on the table today. In other words, there is a working group under the direction of the Ministry of Justice, and they are doing well. They are followed closely, including: from us in political leadership. The working group has a broad mandate where quality, legal certainty and control are central. It is not appropriate to give weights greater access to the use of power and the use of power than they have today. This is clarified in the mandate given to the Working Party by the Ministry. The government is, as has also been said here, opposed to the privatisation of the most stringent enforcement of the authorities and will not outsource the part of the police that goes on this. Several of the proposals being discussed here today are all part of this working group's discussions. I have also noticed that several of the proposals from the Legal Affairs Committee, both from the Right and the Advance Party, have been dealt with earlier in the Stortinget, cf. Inner. S. No 152 for 2006-2007, cf. Document No 8:19 for 2006-2007. I would like to point out three factors that I believe are absolutely crucial in the revision of the VET: extending the scope of the law, improving education and strengthening control. Firstly, I believe that the scope of the law should be extended, so that self-monitoring is also included. In addition, it is now considered that training companies are also included, so that we know who is conducting that training. Secondly, I believe that instrument training needs to be improved. I can assure you that the training aspect is subject to thorough assessment. Further consideration is given to the possibility of official recognition of instrumentation training, and there is also a need to strengthen training both for hours and content. In addition, certain essential requirements should be laid down for those who are to undertake that training. I believe it is essential that instrumentators have sufficient competence to carry out their tasks in a reliable manner and with a sound quality. All types of instrumentation need basic training at a certain level. For those who are required to carry out a particularly demanding task, special training courses will be needed in addition to basic basic training. Today, the Police Directorate has called for specific training for those performing airport, offshore, value-added and accompanying services. In any case, for all to carry out weighing tasks, specific training aimed at the specific work to be carried out by the instrumenter is necessary. Here the companies have a maritime responsibility for their own practices. Thirdly, we need to have more stringent controls on weighing instruments and watch-keeping companies. I would like to mention that the computer tool developed by the Oslo Police District and the Police Data and Material Service is now available and in the process of being used by all the police districts to streamline police districts' work on background checks. This is of great importance and is something that the Government has put great emphasis on. We need to have better control over who's working with the weights. By means of an annual check against the police records, we can open up those who do not have a satisfactory reputation. The current rules on background checks after the recruitment and warning of the watchkeeping companies will now be carefully considered. However, the considerations behind such verification and warning must be balanced against privacy and resiliency considerations. As part of the control, it will be proposed - at least assessed by the working group - to introduce a national identification card for weighing instruments. The purpose of such a card would be for people to know whether or not they are facing an approved instrument. In addition, there is a need for a central watch register listing approved companies, which is also discussed in the current work. In order to ensure police resources to carry out the verification, the implementation of an annual fee is assessed. Suffering from the overwhelming majority of sentinels and watch-keeping companies doing a solid job has been the case in recent years for many unfortunate incidents involving sentinels and watch-keeping companies. Sentinels are becoming increasingly important in society to create security for people. The time has come to tighten regulation and follow-up of the industry. The report of the working group shall be completed within a very short time. I welcome this and will also send proposals for legislative changes at a wide consultation as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e113	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e116	The weight industry is, as you know, an industry of strong growth. The instruments are very visible in the streetscape and in different shopping centers. Now the Council of State will have a review of and a stronger control of the industry. He pointed out a whole series of things that are now to be done by the ministry. He also said that there should be a fee to be paid by these companies. Nevertheless, this will cost money. It will cost resources, and it will cost crew. To what extent will the Council of State ensure that this is followed up?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e121	In this field of criminal policy, at least this Council of States considers it quite inappropriate to adopt laws that are not followed up. That's why I think it's very important that we also get good tools out in the police districts that make you, among other things. can operate a background check that we want to become more frequent and better than today. At the same time, I must say that this is not always about more people and more money. It's also about doing things a little bit trickier. In addition to giving the police money, and in addition to training more and more policemen, it is also, in my opinion, a good idea to leave the discussion about how many police officers are going to sit and control the guards. There was a proposal for five, which the previous government did not follow up. We have also not followed it up, because we believe that, among other things. computer equipment, good computer programs, can help us with this. Then I believe that the industry has a significant responsibility. That is why we are looking at self-financing of the control mechanisms.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e126	In the case of ID cards, the State Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen received ID cards for construction and construction, so it should be a narrow matter to get it done for the weights. I have a question about the banks. They don't have telltales anymore. These are owned by the watchkeeping companies. Financial institutions are considered critical infrastructure. I guess those who move money should also be counted as that. Is there among the regulatory changes that the Council of State intends to submit to the Storting in order to strengthen the requirements of those who carry the money, or is this not within the work of the Working Party? So there's a question that wasn't answered: Is it okay with just a law-enforcement course to operate as an instrument, something you've been signaled about happening in some police districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e135	This working group shall consider the scope of the rules. As I mentioned in my main post, the scope of the law is just one important topic in the report of the working group. It is not just a question of whether educational institutions and those involved in training should be included in this. This concerns the extent to which we should extend the concept of watchkeeping. That's what we get back to when the working group comes up with its report, sailors if we see here that there are moving transitions between those who are employed in companies that may be at risk, and those who, on a seagoing basis, are taking several types of assignments and are looking at as classic watch businesses. I understand that one of the reasons for the last question is that the representative Dahl took it up in his post. I'm going to be too careful with the legal interpretations here and now. I am prepared to answer detailed legal questions about the applicable rules concerning the timing and watchkeeping, if I can prepare a little and get them in writing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e143	I fully understand that the Council of State wants to wait for the position of a working group before he concludes, or goes too far in saying what he thinks. To ask the Council of State directly, is there something he is currently doing? Is it certain that the Government should regulate, in the light of recent experience in the weight industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e150	It's a subtle way to ask questions! With all due respect for the working group - here the industry is also sitting, and in particular our parties are concerned that the industry should be heard. I want to be a little cautious about concluding now, but I have pointed out clear themes for the working group, among other things. training and checking of good repute. We must have clearer rules for that. So I believe that the representative Syversen had a very good point in his statement, that one should look beyond the report of the working group and the legislation that is now coming, look at what is happening, what is the background to the failure of many of the social control mechanisms in society, so that we need more emphasis. It's an interesting issue. I hope that the debate we have on legislation will help to hold up such a necessary debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e157	The cord shift is over. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3134]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e175	At the request of the Justice Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be a possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will make suggestions that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e184	The Stortinget has a draft representative on 3,000 new posts for the police, promoted by the representatives Odd Einar Dørum, Vera Lysklätt, Anne Margrethe Larsen and André N. Skkelstad from the Left. The proposal is hereby annexed to the minutes. The Committee expresses the willingness of all parties to build a stronger police force. However, the government parties and the opposition have separated layers in the matter. The Red-Green Alliance refers to measures undertaken by the Government, while the Committee's minority consisting of the Progress Party and the Right-wing People's Party follow up the concrete proposals of the Left. However, the minority has been detained with numerical fixing at the present time and believes among other things. that this should be further investigated through a separate police study following the model of the defence study, as proposed by the Right. The study should have a time perspective up to 2030, analyse the evolution of crime, define future police tasks and dimension the police action from this point of view. Norwegian police are characterised by quality and professionalism at all stages and are an important component of the spinal cord in the legal state. There is probably also the source of the confidence of the police in the population. The Left’s proposal is based on the fact that the police are increasingly experiencing differences between society’s expectations and, in particular, the actual ability of the Stortinge to carry out the full range of tasks assigned to them, from prevention, crime control, foreign administration, emergency services and other crisis management, passport issuance and various tasks in civil justice. Proposalers will strengthen the police in order to counter developments where the weights are unwelcome in the police areas where the police are short. I would also like to mention early retirement and new working time regulations – otherwise no one disputes – as other explanation factors for increasing pressure on police personnel and time. The search for the Police College has been steady over good, and significant inspection has made it possible for only the best to escape through the recording loop. This means that the police consist of a selection of our best women and men, who, in daily service and in meeting with the inhabitants, are still proving the task worthy. However, it is worrying that in recent years, the number of applicants shows a decrease while the intake has increased. The danger is that this will in the long run weaken the quality of the students and the future police. There is consensus in the Committee on the need for increased admission to the Police College. The minority believes that the Government should ensure that the capacity of police training in Oslo and Bodø is extended or that a third police high school is established in Norway. The majority - Workers' Party and SV - refer here to the expansion of the Police College next year with a new temporary department at Setter Farm with 100 study places. Proposalers are also concerned about the role of the police reserve in the future. The minority in the Committee, the Right and the Advance Party agree that there is a need for clarification on this point. Proposalers are also concerned that the content of police training stimulates a variety of career paths. A strong, competent and visible police force is the best security insurance that a community can have. However, the post-Political Reform 2000 development suggests that the reform has failed in one significant point: the goal of a more visible and accessible police force has not been achieved. The mariner doesn't feel too close. Security cooperation in large districts increases the call-out time and reduces local knowledge. Prevention and the fight against crime no longer receive the necessary attention everywhere. Explored criminals get an easy match when they can get several hours of lead on the police. We hear from Finnmark to Agder that it is no longer a matter of course that the police are moving out, and matters with a known perpetrator are being settled. That's what makes the police trust sound and creates insecurity. These developments are also not in line with the objectives of the police role communication, which brought together a total increase in spring 2006. This is the reality of police action taken by the proposers, and I understand that there is a cross-political consensus on the need to strengthen the police manpower. The minority in the Committee, consisting of the Right and the Advance Party, has made five proposals in which the Government is called upon to follow up so that the police can better handle their tasks. The challenge for the Minister of Justice is to take action to free up police time to tasks that really require police training. This should be done, for example: As a matter of urgency, police officers are occupied by court alerts, while the investigation of rapes and murders has to be suspended. This creates great frustration in the population, but also among responsible policemen who believe their time is being used in a wrong way. Compared to our neighbouring countries, Norway has the smallest police force without reducing the task portfolio, rather the opposite. The size therefore meets with great interest the outcome of the much-discussed manning project and how the Government will follow this up. I take with this the minority proposals from the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e218	The representative Elisabeth Aspaker has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e221	The proposal that has been presented is reflected in a number of debates we have had over the last few years on the situation of the Norwegian police. There is nothing in that proposal that is new or that has not been debated in the past. The only thing that's new is that the proposers with this then until they take a strong line with their own policies, which they have been leading for many years in position. I'll come back to that. During this big period, we have been discussing a big message about how Norwegian police are going to be in the next ten or fifteen years. Here it was a very broad majority in the Stortinget that decided on a very large number of fundamental points. In relation to paragraph 1 of the proposal, all the parties in the Committee, minus the Right, have pointed out that we are still in favour of what was adopted in connection with the police report on education at the Police College. It is also pointed out that a Bachelor's degree in basic training should continue for policemen and women, and that the School of Police should offer continuing education up to the master's level. This also provides an opportunity for different career paths in the police. With regard to points 2, 3 and 4 of the proposal, I would like to comment on them together. There is no doubt that the biggest challenge facing the Norwegian police today is the lack of trained personnel. It recognized the sitting government already before it came to power, and it's one of the moments that was pointed to in Soria Moria. For this reason, the current government has also significantly increased the admission of the police high school compared to the normal level of former governments. The government has also announced that they are now looking at the possibility of expanding the capacity of existing departments of the Police College. This means that even next year, if the crew project shows that there is a need for it, it can quickly prove that it is, because of the poor educational rate of former governments. The police role report also points to extending the use of civilians in the police. Many police districts now have an active relationship with this, and the number of civilians is increasing every day. We also know that the police officers have the opportunity to hire even more people since last year's under-use in police Norway was well over 200 million. kr. With regard to point 5 of the proposal, it has been discussed before. Among other things, it was pointed out in the budget debate last autumn, pointing to the news of social security that is coming now before the summer. By doing so, I believe that all five points in the proposal are well taken care of by the current government's policy, and that is the background for us to believe that the proposal should only be annexed to the Minutes. Then I want to return to what I announced at the beginning of the article, namely that the proposers recognise their own misguided policy. The proposers write in their proposal: «The proposers consider it important to plan for the long term in order to have a proper police staff.» Yes, that's why we red-green now are working on a bomb to fix the faults of the proposers. It is because of such a lack of thinking that we now have a major challenge in relation to the manning situation. It takes three years to train a policeman or a woman. That means you have to think in the long term. I would therefore like to point out the historical facts. When Bondevik I took over after the Jagland government, one of today's proposers was in that government, quite rightly as Minister of Transport to begin with. The first budget presented by Bondevik I was a continuation of the high level of the Jagland government of 432 police students. But then something happened that shows the background of the now problematic everyday life in Police Norway. Today’s proposal maker Dørum became Minister of Justice in 1999. This year the number of students fell to 248. The following year he lowered it further to 240 students. This was since what I want to call the level of the Doorum for the number of students at the Police College. He had this level in three additional budgets under the Bondevik II government - in 2001, 2002 and 2003. Then there was a slight increase in his last budget of 288 students. In the first budget for Stoltenberg II, we were up in 360 students, and now we've had two years of admission of 432 students. Despite that, we have started to look at the possibility of further expansion next year. This is probably the crudest attempt at disclaimer I've seen from a former minister. The proposers also state in the proposal that work on organised, including financial, crime must be strengthened in particular. Yes, we fully agree with that. That is why we have also given Ecocrim significantly more employees and better tools, such as: Whitewashing detection tool. That's why we started the fight against repeat crime, and that's why we started the stop-group that's going to work against trafficking, to mention something. These were also not unknown criminal sizes when Dørum was a minister. The difference is that we take action while we're in position, instead of taking all the good measures when we're not in position. I think this kind of discharge is the most important contribution to the so-called political debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e258	There is an important issue for the proposers here, but it is probably not a topic that has been debated more by the Justice Committee in this session than more money for the police, more resources for and more admission to the Police College. There has sometimes been a rather exciting debate among the debaters, where some parties have taken turns telling each other who has been or has not been the best in the class to bet on increased admissions of police students. Let's hope that this debate does not end the same way. In fact, we're going to have to go all the way back to 1997 to find an equal amount of recording that we have this year. In the 2005 budget agreement, the Progress Party was able to shake out more resources from the Bondevik II government, increasing our admission to the Police College and increasing budgets for the entire sector. When Thomas Breen talks about long-termity, I just want to mention that I can't see that the Workers' Party in its 2005 budget increased the admission to the Police College. In addition, I would mention that the number of graduates was at its highest under the Stoltenberg I government, if it could dampen the debate a little bit. What I want to do is we have to stop arguing about who's best in class, and rather concentrate on the situation we have today, and how we can solve this. The situation of the police is very worrying. Any Minister of Justice will be able to beat his chest and say that he grants more money to the police than former Ministers of Justice. But in any case, one here forgets to include that there have never been any higher wage and price adjustments, there have never been so many extra tasks for the police, and crime has never been greater. We need more police, and we need visible police. We're about to have to take it over and get our eyes up for the situation. So what's the situation today? Yes, the vast majority of police districts have so tight budgets today and so much lack of resources that it affects people's security. Every day, police districts have to make adjustments and priorities that are very unfortunate and perhaps run counter to the priorities the Stortinget wants. This, in turn, reduces the confidence of the police in the population. A success factor to succeed in the objectives of the police role announcement, as the Progress Party sees it, is that the police are given the resources that are needed at all times to provide the population with the police service they require. The police's challenges in providing people with the police service and security they need are growing, and we are now approaching a critical point. Today we could read in Stavanger Aftenblad that the police in Stavanger today are much less out and do preventive work than they were in 1990. ‘We’re not on the road enough in terms of prevention’, and ‘we’re under pressure, and we need to give priority to prevention research’, we can read. "More police, no more talking," is wanted by the police in Stavanger. The party of progress has said that before, but a good thing cannot be repeated too often. Norway is on the ground level for police coverage in the Nordic region. We love to boast that we are the richest country in the world and are selected for the best country to live in. But how can we walk around and be proud to be the worst in the Nordic region on police coverage? We've got money. In the future, Norway must have the ambition to have the best police coverage in the Nordic region. We can afford this. That is why the Progress Party also has expectations of the Government's work on the Police Manning Project. It is important to plan in the long term to meet the challenges we face. Now let's try to do something to solve today's problem while we're getting more trained police. We need to see if we can use more civil servants to release police force, for example. transport of prisoners, such as arrest guard, reinforced office services - to mention something. There is once again an important topic that is being addressed here, and the increase in the number of police students is a major topic. Nevertheless, the Progress Party will show that the police need increased resources in the future, and we need to be careful just to explain everything to the police that we need to increase the admission to the Police College. We can easily end up in the situation that the police districts do not have enough resources to hire those who are graduates, and we would rather avoid that. Finally, I would like to say a little about one of the proposals and the vote. The Group of the Party of European Socialists will not support proposal No. 9 from the left. We fully agree that the police reserve can be further developed and used for new tasks, but it is important to put in place a plan for how this can be done, before we begin to quantify how much it should be increased.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e288	First, a very brief comment on the Progress Party. If the policy described by the Progress Party becomes a reality, it is clear that we need more police. When the Advance Party lowers the appropriations to customs when the Advance Party removes the alcohol charge, it must mean that more police is needed. That's the one. The second is that it's a little strange that in all other areas of society we have to give priority and balance. But right within the police, we don't have to give priority. At least the party of progress does not want us to give priority. I just remember that 43 million. The Oslo police had a surplus at the end of last year. So to what I was really going to say. The objectives of the SV and the Government are an active, comprehensive fight against crime. We need to prevent better, clarify more, react faster and rehabilitate better. The justice policy of the government has a broad welfare policy perspective. Active welfare policies create good conditions for success in criminal policy. All people are entitled to security and protection and service from the police. SV believes that a near police force is important, as is also evident from the Soria Moria statement. The goal is to secure a close and strong police force. Police shall be locally anchored, and a key prerequisite for a locally anchored police force is contact, proximity and dialogue with the public and municipalities. In this context, I would like to highlight the police councils in particular. So far, about 50 police councils have been set up. Close-up police and local politicians know people and local communities best, and in cooperation they can resolve conflicts early, prevent crime and provide security. I would like to take this opportunity to make another appeal to local politicians to continue working on setting up more police councils in the country. The red-green government has made more use of funds than any other government to meet the need for a near-police. We need a more effective criminal procedure chain, and therefore have increased admission to both police and prison training. It is true that today the police have challenges in relation to the manning situation. I don't really like to polemize unnecessarily, but I'm tempted to ask, why do we have these challenges? The answer is slightly back in time, in 2002 and 2003, when the admission to the Police College was very low. It's the recording in these years that we today notice the consequences of. It was under the Bondevik II government, where one of the proposers was appointed as Minister of Justice. That's when the recording number at the Police College was at a bulge level. The current government has therefore taken responsibility for the manning situation in the police. In 2007 we increased the recording at Police College to record 432 students. This is an increase of almost 200 students. The same record record from 2007 has continued this year. If the previous government had had our pace of training policemen, we could only have had almost 200 more policemen around the country last year. It is also worth remembering that this government has increased the appropriations by more than 500 million. kr to the police in the period 2006-2008. Several competent police officers allow us to achieve the objectives of better prevention, response faster and clarification. We are proud of the work this government has done and is doing, among other things. The police field. This increases safety in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e305	Sometimes you get a déjà vu, and I have really felt that in this debate. If you go back to both the budget debate and other debates, I think you'll see that much of what has been said today has been brought here in the Chamber before, perhaps in a slightly different context. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we support the intention and the wish of the proposers to point out the need for more trained police officers and women. I think the rapporteur has put it well in the minority proposals. A debate on history is very interesting, not least I think the representative Dørum had had great pleasure going up and down on this pulpit up to several times after the speeches that have been before today. But if there are so many more police officers and women of that history debate, it's a different matter. The truth is, at least as far as I can remember, that from the end of the 1990s it was also a wish from the organizations that you had to be a little careful about bringing up more people at the Police College, because you were in danger of not getting the police into work, because there were actually no jobs to get. So it's turned around, of course, also in the face of increased needs and another labour market, not least. But besides training more people, the more you can do to keep today's employees. We can also look at, as I know the department does, what the working time regulations have done with the time the police actually have available in the districts, and what we do to coordinate several of the public authorities' efforts to detect serious crime. I am thinking in particular of cooperation in the field of economic crime, where cooperation with the tax authorities, the equality authorities, is of enormous importance in order to achieve an overall result. Unfortunately, there we see that it fails. The last example is partly from the taxi cases we've had in this city, where one public authority spends a lot of time and effort to detect crime that is not followed up by the other hand. So the common desire we have to get more active policemen and women into service, we stand together, and then we get to hope that the budgets in the future can also show that it actually becomes possible. And if I'm allowed to: I've also seen that party colleagues of the Minister of Justice in Hedmark now want to move the Police College there, so it's very nice if he could say whether or not to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e318	Police have a number of core tasks related to security-creating work, the maintenance of order and the fight against crime. But the police also have a number of other tasks, and compared to our Nordic colleagues, such as Sweden and Denmark, the Norwegian police have more roles than the core tasks. There are such tasks that give the police a local anchoring and imply that Norwegian police are available. But this also means that police resources are being pushed. The left considers it important to plan for the long term in order to have a good manning. We want to increase the staffing of the police because it is not desirable to have an important state, but to have a clear, active and visible police force. The left considers that it is at the heart of a legal state that, as a general rule, the police are entitled to use personal property. We believe that it is unfortunate that indicators attack citizens as often as they do, without the need for better regulation of their activities, and the best way to avoid the use of sentinels as a ‘private police substitute’ is to ensure that we have enough police officers. In the view of the Left, there is a need for increased involvement of the police, in particular to strengthen the field service and work against organised - including economic - crime. Police outpatient services come into contact with the population in many different situations, from disadvantaged young people to acute psychiatry to killing sites. In order to improve recruitment capacity, admission to Police College needs to be increased. After the recording by various governments was around 240, an escalation began under the government of Bondevik II. This has led to an increase in recording, and for 2007 the recording number increased from 360 to 432. This increase will give about 900 new police posts after ten years. If we're going to have the same police coverage as Denmark, we have to increase the number of posts by 600. If we want the same coverage as Sweden, we have to increase by 1,600 jobs. We have therefore wanted to increase the recording by 550 per cent. years. Then we'll have an increase of 2,100 policemen after ten years. At the same time, we see that the capacity at the Police College is blown up. It is therefore appropriate to establish a new police high school in addition to the departments in Oslo and Bodø. I heard what the Seven said about it, and I have registered that there is a temporary plant in Elverum, so I could also have thought to hear what kind of thoughts the Council of State has in connection with this, as I know that there are several relevant places in the country that have shown interest. I would also like to point out that the Left points to the possibilities for the release of police posts so that civilians can more fully take over tasks such as the transport of prisoners, detention, reinforced office services and civil specialists in support functions. We propose a necessary recruitment in the case of civil and police posts at approximately 90 years. If the Left's proposal is implemented, the police will together be given 3 000 new posts over a 10-year period. Of course, it could have been time to look back, as the representative Breen does, but I'll leave it. With this I address the Left's proposal No. 6, 7, and 9. I am not promoting proposal No. 8, since it and one of the proposals of the Progress Party and the Right are equivalent. In addition, the Left secondary vote for the Progress Party and the Right proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e339	The representative, André N. Skelstad, has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e342	This is quite correct, as many people have been involved in, a debate that we have probably tangented to before. But it's an important debate, and I'm very proud to belong to a government that can at least say from this pulpit that what we're going to be measured on is what we're actually doing -- that's what matters. If we are to train more policemen in Norway, we must increase the recording at the Police College - sentence finals. It's been important for the government, and that's why we're now in the second year with the highest recording in many, many years, and we have ambitions to get on with this. And what we're struggling with today -- when the Right is going to mark out in town that you want so many new policemen, you carry heavy paper figures, carry cardboard instead of people -- is to fill vacancies in the Norwegian police. I believe that this is some of the reasons why, at the turn of the year 2007/2008, funds had been outsourced in the police districts. There are several people who have confirmed, and therefore it is now absolutely vital that we get more people out of Police College. History is interesting in relation to political credibility. It is strange to see that such proposals come now, and that it was not thought when you were in position - as close to the decision-making basis as it was. But the story is also interesting in the sense that it shows us that if you had the recording that we have today, under the previous government, we would have far more police officers to recruit. It's undisputed. And then we might have learned that during this period we have to educate more, and that's what we're doing. Since the Oslo Police College is now blown up -- no more than 432 goes in there -- we want to have a temporary arrangement in place as quickly as possible, so that we can increase the recording beyond what we have today, and get it in place quickly, that is. the ambition is to next year. Then we have to have something temporary. Then it has been close to us not to go to Elverum, but to see among other things. in the Stavern and Kongsvinger facilities, where the Police College today has training activities, in order to establish something temporary, so that we can increase capacity while clarifying where possible to place a new and larger police high school. No position has been taken to where it should be. I hear that there are local party people, from many local parties, who have many ambitions in that way, but the Ministry of Justice has made no decision on that issue. We're waiting for the Police College to say in that context. Here I believe that we are on the right track. The representative Solvency Horne says that now crime is growing over our heads, and then I'm going to say, no, it doesn't. Both the previous government and the current government must be able to say that the efforts that have been made in relation to different types of criminal acts, as well as in relation to police, prisons, criminal execution, have contributed to the fact that when I now travel in several police districts - in Sogn and fjordane I was now - we see a significant decline in the registerable crime, for example. profit-criminality. We've had a decline, a pretty good decline, in the perhaps most serious crime we're facing, namely killing, in Norway. It's not right not to punish the taximen in Oslo. I want to pay tribute to the Oslo police district and to the court dealing with the difficult issues, where you now mark very clearly with criminal sanctions, and I believe that all possible means must be used to stop that kind of criminal act. We must not create a picture that the Norwegian police do not do their job - depending on what recording we had under the previous government or the current government. It's delivered well in many police districts, and we actually see the result. To prevent: I would like to mention in particular the fact that an overall increase has been involved, the establishment of police councils. This has helped to ensure that politicians locally and the police together find mechanisms that help to reduce the crime of violence, among others. by tightening in relation to yielding. I would like to pay tribute to local Right-wing people, to local advance party people, who in these days in local municipal governments are helping to tighten up, so that not all police resources are used at night, but put them in by day, among other things. to investigate violence in close relationships.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e356	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e359	It's always interesting to hear the Council's description of reality, even though it might be more nuanced than he wants to make it. It is at least a fact that when the Justice Committee discusses the police's options, we do so, among other things. by budgetary consultations on the harvest before the adoption of the budget. What's nice is that every time we have budget hearings, at least I perceive it so that, among other things. The Joint Union of Police, which is to a large extent a messenger in terms of the situation in Police Norway from their point of view, is generally not satisfied with the framework they are given. I've also seen other reactions, perhaps especially from the Oslo department that have more than once pointed out different aspects that they find worrying about their own reality. I heard that the Council of State now boasted of the Oslo Police. At the same time, we are aware that it has been a long time since the Oslo police have been so bad at winning crimes as they are right now, which I also regard as part of the Council of State's portfolio. Today I heard Arne Johannessen on the radio, who was worried about the situation in Police Norway this summer. Then my question becomes: is it such that the Council of State believes that the Police Joint Association is running a permanent wage struggle, or is it such that they give a reality description of the facts in Police Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e366	I don't need to give the characters of the Police Joint Union that go in a negative direction - rather the opposite. For the Government, the Joint Association of Police is a very important ally in putting into action measures that the previous government did not implement. We received clear advice from the Police Joint Union on building down the reconciliation queue. - We've done it. We received clear advice from the Police Joint Association to build emergency networks to NOK 3.6 billion. - We've done it. We received clear advice from the Police Joint Association to develop a new DNA law and grant over 100 million. kr to set it in motion. - We've done it. We were given clear advice to increase the admission to Police College to 432. - We've done it. We received clear advice to give more money to the police. - We've done it. But of course, there will always be something that the Police Joint Union will also have more of, with all due respect for the Police Joint Alliance, but I do believe that they have been a very important prime minister for the government's criminal policy. In this way, I am pleased that their leader is just expressing enthusiasm for the measures that are now taking place, including: The DNA Act and the crew project.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e383	We all agree that we need to increase the admission to the Police College. At the same time, we have been in a situation where education has been attractive. We've had a search, and we've been able to pick on the top shelf. So this trend seems to be turning around, that is, fewer applicants, and it happens at the same time that we're going to bring up more people for police training. The right has raised the following issue: Is it actually the case that we are missing the competent applicants for police training because that deadline is 1 November, while most young people are sitting around 1 April and are considering what kind of training they are going to apply for? My question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State agree that the decline in the number of applicants is a challenge and a problem when we are going to address more, and what kind of action will the Council of State take to stimulate more qualified applicants for police training?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e390	I have told the representative of Aspaker before: I think she has to check the facts better. Is it true that there has been a decline in the candidate number of the police high school in 2007? No, it's increasing. That's interesting, and that's good. I hope that it also increases now in 2008. So the description that Aspaker gives is not right. What's also interesting about the candidate volume for the Police College, is that more and more applicants who are admitted are women, so we have a very good female share. This year, at the last recording, we're also getting a record of students with a foreign cultural background. As far as I'm concerned, it's 26 or 27. So we're going to be careful to swallow everything that's being delivered, whether it's here in the Storting or to the Government, that the candidate mass is so miserable. You should be a little bit more nuanced when it comes to facts.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e397	It has been difficult for a long time to fill police posts in the Sami municipalities of Finnmark. What will the Minister of Justice do to get young people from the Sami communities to apply to the Police College?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e402	I believe that it is a particularly important task to recruit a broad student coal for the Police College. This applies not only to the Sami background, but, as I said, in general to the international background and to the gender perspective. It's kind of important. I know that it has been seized from among others. the Police Director and the Police Directorate to take exceptional action to recruit more people from different environments. I believe that we should also look at the possibilities of recruiting more than today for local recording, decentralised recording, and a decentralised recording, such as: targeted at Finnmark, could also help recruit more people with a Sami background. It is particularly important to build confidence in the Sami environment, and also to follow up on language.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e409	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e414	It is important for human safety that they can live a life without fear or experience of violence. I think it's society's responsibility to help prevent violence and abuse in the streets, in the workplace and in close relationships. In a community, closeness and trust in the police are particularly important. They shall be involved in prevention and emergency situations. This is why the position of police and civil servants is of great importance to individuals in a community. At the same time, more specialised services are important to deal with crimes that require more special resources. We need both parts, both close police and more specialised police. Following the police reform, such as: should meet the need for a more specialised police force by establishing a common criminal unit, staffing in many districts has been greatly reduced. This has been at the expense of the local police. In western parts of West Agder, police coverage has been reduced to a minimum, especially in the Lister region. As a result, the ability to ensure individual safety has been reduced. As a result, the response time to the police has been significantly extended. We sometimes experience that the police arrive at a crime scene after the last journalist has left the scene - if the police have the resources to get there at all. These are harsh realities in the West, and, as I said, especially in the Lister region. With half a crew in the Flekkefjord police department, individuals may have to wait until Monday morning before they get help after the break-in of the weekend. Firefighters and ambulancemen sometimes conduct the traffic by car crash on E39. And we are now talking about civil protection after a doctor held a burglar for 50 minutes until the police arrived. He himself was fined. This is not a positive development and violates people's general view of justice. People's security is thus put to the test every day because there are not enough policemen in the region, and this is very unfortunate. When burglaries and other crimes remain unsolved or unexplored at all, it not only affects people's sense of security, it also affects people's sense of justice and respect for the police. Individuals do not necessarily understand difficult, beautiful reforms and reorganization and specialisation of the police in large cities. The safety of individuals depends on the response, proximity to the ethate and help in an acute situation. The left does not want an instrument society. Police are the ones to perform police duties, not private actors paid by private companies and individuals. The left wants all citizens to feel secure. It's actually a task to get enough police for the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e434	Police have a number of core tasks related to ensuring the security of people, maintaining order and combating crime. But the police also have a number of other tasks. Compared to Sweden and Denmark, Norwegian police have more roles than the core tasks. The police in Norway have, for example, the tasks of civil, foreign and rescue services and other crisis management. Such tasks give the police a local anchor. This means that Norwegian police are available, but it also means that police resources are being pressured. The left, therefore, wants to increase police posts by 3000 over a decade. We believe it is important to plan for the long term in order to get a good manning, and that the manning is proportionate to the tasks the police have to perform in the different districts of our long-term country. I have received many comments of concern from the trust-elected members of the Joint Police Association, both in East and West Finland police districts, about the consequences of today's resource shortage. This has to be taken seriously. The new form of service with a back-up service has clearly turned out completely wrong in Finnmark. It results in the only ones serving the population in terms of evening and night security in the county, two operators are on their own in Hammerfest and in Kirkenes. This means that the whole of Finnmark can be without an active police service in the evening and night because police officers have been watching at home via their mobile phone waiting to move out. The tasks must first be assessed by the operation manager - whether they are life, body and health. In other words, we don't have a 24-hour continuous service where the police are available all the time. Access to resources must take account of local circumstances. The security of the population must be in the high seat, and it must be the same whether we live in Westfold or in Finnmarks. In Finnmark we have very large distances, spread settlement and last, but not least, we have different languages and cultures to take into account. It was not without reason, and it was absolutely necessary that in its time a Sami language and administrative area were established in Inner Finland, where the municipalities of Kautokeino, Karasjok, Porsanger, Tana and Nesseby are included. We have also now received the Inner Finnmark District Court. I want to highlight in particular the difficulties of occupying the police positions in the country's largest municipality in the area, in Kautokeino for a long, long time. Unfortunately, there are many examples of the lack of police here being directly irresponsible. It often happens that no one is on guard. Today, two positions are occupied, and three are unoccupied. It's been way too long. The nearest police guard in the afternoon, nights and weekends is in Alta, which is 140 km away, i.e. very long call-out time. There is a need to look at the model of resource allocation between the police districts - the admission of the police high school needs to be increased, and the police profession needs to be made more attractive, so that we get the jobs occupied. A desire for more visible police, as the police reform adds, cannot be combined with the cost-effective operation of a state of scale with Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e448	It was as the representative of the Seven said: then we're on again when the Council of State speaks. For the council said that if you had the recording you have now, most things would have been solved. Yes, but then the question is: Why in the world didn't former Big Bang representative Storberget propose increasing funds for admission to the Police High School when he had the chance of opposition - in relation to a minority government? That's what I think I'm saying. Otherwise, I would like to ask whether the Council of State has intended to adopt the position towards Stortinget which he has in his reply to the committee, where he would have almost asked for the Committee to deal with the proposal that has been put forward here. The last sentence of the letter of reply is quite interesting in relation to the attitude that this government has towards the Stortinget and the Left representatives who have promoted this rather important proposal. It was good to hear today that there was an important debate, but I think it is more than special that a government council would have asked that the committee treat proposals as the individual representatives of an opposition party promote. Otherwise, it's the question of giving you come drawing every time you think it's a problem that needs to be solved - with no more money for the police. But then the question is, why in the world does the Council of State not propose anything concrete itself, rather than putting its trust in good, competent local Right-Rapporteurs and others? Why not suggest something central, which will then solve the problem of donation, to which the Council of State is concerned in any debate? Otherwise, I think the Council of State has good reason to praise the Oslo Police. I was with them on the patrol night until May 1st and got to see with my own eyes how they did as best they could, but they stay in arrears because they lack crew. So it's clear that a position and an opposition have different roles and sees the world a little bit different. But after listening to Mr. Chaudhry's posts here, you can start to wonder what constituency he's from. With regard to SV's interpretations of the links in the policy of the Progress Party, there is reason to recall that if you had followed SV's economic policy, it would be 200-300 billion kroner less to be allocated before you had at all put together the budgets. 2008 was supposed to be the year of the police, said this government. Yes, it has been, for there have never been so many clear messages from land and beach around. And the clear messages are a piece from these Soria Moria posts we've heard here today and earlier, as Martin Kolberg must have written. That won't be any more true for that reason. But it's not possible to sit and paint beauty and have such an arrogant attitude, in the previous debate, and now, to a minority operating on behalf of people who make contact. So I guess it would have been neat if the Council of State repeated that he thought this was an important debate, and with regard to the last sentences of his letter of reply to the committee, it stressed that it will not repeat itself. Even if you have a majority government, you may be able to show such respect to a minority who are heavily engaged, and do not compromise their commitment, as has been done in the committee's letter of reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e463	I had actually hoped that today would be a time gap in how we debate this type of important challenge, which addresses all the police working in the building, and which occupies many of the local politicians - probably also the local politicians of the government parties - who have great concerns because not everything should be resolved as it should be locally. But I was disappointed when the representative Thomas Breen took the floor, because I think he got back in the old, bad track. It's doing this thing a bear service, and it does the debate we've had today, very little constructive. The representative Chaudhry made it a big point again that this government has invested half a billion dollars in the police. The truth is, once you've had NOK 130 billion more at your disposal since the government took over, it's half a billion, if you rain in percent, less than half a percent. And then it's probably not that much to talk about, given the challenges that exist out there. The representative of Chaudhry was also concerned that a total of 50 police councils had now been set up in the Kingdom. But then I would like to remind the representative that it is almost two years since we dealt with the police report. On average, we have received 25 police councils in the two years that have gone by, and I don't know how many years, and one and a half times the time, until the country's 429 municipalities should have got their police councils - one of the measures agreed by a total crowd would be important for building good relations between the police and the municipality locally, in order to be able to take even better hold of everything from prevention to crime control more directly. A short time ago, the Council of State was out commenting, among other things. The situation in eastern Finland, where it had now been so fortunate to have qualified applicants and had filled the positions that it felt were necessary to operate the police district properly. The problem was that when people were caught, the budget didn't go to pay the people you had put in place. So it's actually proven that the budgets that the police have out there are not suitable to meet the challenges and problems they actually have. The last thing I'm going to stay a little bit close to is what the Council of State says about the availability of funds in the police at the end of the year in 2007. It's like the police chief in Oslo said in the last newspaper for the Oslo Police, that when you get 23 million. kr from the end of November to the end of the year, it will do something to make it possible to use that money in a reasonable way. So I think the Council of State should mention the so-called surplus in the police in a slightly different way and show a greater understanding of how the police officers deal with such a situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e478	I would not have asked myself this discussion, rather the opposite. I really don't understand how the representative Dahl can interpret it out of a letter or this debate. I would like to repeat that I think it is nice that we get a discussion that has the most essential in it, namely the recording at the Police College. It's very good that we've increased the recording at the Police College, that we've done it for two years, and that we've actually gone so far here in the Grand Duchy as to say that we have plans to move on in that area. That is what needs to be done by major action alongside the senior measures, alongside the release of police officers who are currently engaged in civil tasks, in order to get more police force out - whether it is in East Finland or in Sogn and Fjordane. Then I would also like to say that it seems like you kind of interpret the situation and take most of it in the worst sense. Now I wanted here from the pulpit to say that I think it is good that police councils have been established in the whole country. It's going too far, and I don't think it's long before we can say that all the municipalities are connected to a police council. I also believe that it is very good that the kind of mechanisms on which the Storting agrees across the board, actually now see the results - that there was no advice that should have no meaning, and that cross-political support was also given to the measures that the police central, especially the police officers in the large districts, have launched in order to restrict access to, among other things. drugs, so that we bring down the crime of violence. Let's not make it a negative in the debate. There's something that contributes to less crime and that we can push our police resources. We must also have a thought for that. If that's what people have been into, that we're going to get a closer police force, it's not just about moving out quickly. It's also about you being close to those who never meet the police. The women who are subjected to violence, the children who live in homes where there is violence and threats, must also be able to be met by the police. My vision and the government's vision is that next to educating more people, we could spend more money on the police and at the same time reduce a good deal of the crime that happens at night, so that you can discover more of the crime that is today surrounded by a great darkness. Nothing is better than that! So what's taken of grips with the police these two years, I think is absolutely right. It helps us to get more police force, and I am also convinced that it helps crime to continue to go down.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e487	The council had a very good post, where he responded to all of the attacks, which I would say were completely groundless, which came from the opposition. I still want to add that it is not very wise, and it was unwise when we put in opposition, to make proposals just to promote them. There has to be some content in them, and you have to respect both the position and the rules of play that we have for the budget here at Stortinget. So it was quite right, as the representative Dahl did, to take the Progress Party in defense. There is today a constellation in the opposition that wants to take over the government power. But I have a question for the representative Dahl. It is true that the Progress Party lowered customs duties. It is true that the Advance Party lowered the alcohol charges. We must then agree that when you lower the budget to the customs office, and when you lower the alcohol charges and do it cheaply, it must mean that there is more work for the police out there, there is more crime to fight. And if that is true, how will the representative Dahl fight this crime with his budget, which is different from that of the Progress Party? That is a good question that I think the representative Dahl should be able to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e494	This has become a trenche debate, and that is what we had hoped it would not be. I would like to say to the representative Akhtar Chaudhry that it is good to hear that we have a spokesperson who takes care of those who are responsible for the smuggling of alcohol into Norway. They have a good and bright future ahead of him as long as he has a hand on the wheel when it comes to putting alcohol charges so high that there is a basis for it. So he should have all credit and honor for that. At the same time, there is a fact, at least from my point of view, that if this debate had been equally topical in the previous period, then then then opposition politicians Knut Storberget would have put it on the map to the benefit of it. So he didn't. I went online and applied to Storberget and police training. So there's very few matches to it. In return, the then opposition politician was very clear on everything, most of all. Honor be to him for that, for he was very clear on what he wanted to take hold of. It was with respect to report not much focus on this. If it was the case that the police were so important, why did the then opposition politician Knut Storberget cut off in the police's budget agreement he was in on the previous period? If it is as correct and as good as the representative of Breen said that we have to bet, why was that effort so negative in the last period when the Labour Party made budgetary settlements? It's possible it was tricked, it's possible it's understandable, it's possible it was another priority, but at least it's a fact that it happened. Then I register -- almost as usual, as Dahl's representative said -- that the Council of State is concerned with alcohol and alcohol-related problems. Again, I have asked the Council of State from this pulpit: if that's so important, why doesn't the Government do anything about it? After a while, I'm actually wondering if this is a cynical game on the part of the Council of State. Since the Council of State likes to use this argument against other parties, why doesn't Knut Storberget do anything about it - as a government council, as part of the government, that can change the alcohol law whenever it wants? He has a majority in the hall to get through to it. Is it simply because it's timely to have it as an argument? The answer is, of course, the government itself gives, but the fact is that the government has a majority in this room and can change the alcohol law when you want to do it. That you don't want to do that, says a lot about the government criticizing other parties that have a different policy in that area. I think that's cheap. I think it's petty political, but it's possible to achieve something to do it this way. Then it is a fact that we are discussing budgetary frameworks. I record that the council of state in the line said instead that the Police Joint Association was pleased. Yes, they were so pleased that when the budget was presented, there was a press release that praised the Government in the clouds. That rose probably lasted a maximum of two hours, before the facts went up for them, and they saw how bad it really was. After that, at least we have received feedback from policemen that the reality described by the Council of State and Government parties is quite different from that experienced by the police in that very country. It would have been quite interesting to hear if the Council of State might be able to give the Storting feedback on how many jobs are kept vacant this year as a result of a lack of budgetary framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e505	Now I had not thought I would defend the budgets of the Progress Party. My point was that SV has a small credibility problem in relation to talking about economic policy. If you were to follow SV's policy, you would have had 200-300 billion dollars less to distribute. I actually think SV should stand for that, even if they're in government. Fortunately, the Labour Party has made sure that economic policy does not become too bad. Otherwise I think Akhtar Chaudhry's posts underline the point I took from the letter from the Council of State to the Committee. It is referred to as an unnecessary proposal. Here stands a representative of the government parties and stamps the minority's proposals as an unnecessary proposal to ensure a better police force in the future. When it is said that after the relevant State Council has sent a letter to the Committee calling on the Committee not to consider the proposal, because there are so many committees and selections working in the Government, I really have to say that it is perhaps okay that someone from the minority says that it is actually our right to make proposals. Although it is a majority government, it is not that a government council dictates the work of the committees or the minority rights here in this Chamber. I think that is evidence of an understanding of democracy which is the same on the left, but not primarily in Norway. I hope we can avoid getting that kind of wording sent to the committee when a minority makes proposals because they are concerned about a matter. I hope we can all agree on that. To put it this way, there weren't so many ways to interpret those formulations. It wasn't interpreting in the worst sense, it was interpreting it in the only possible way to interpret it. I hope that the kind of sentences, the three-four that this is about, don't repeat in relation to minorities that take up things they're busy with in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e514	There was such a debate I had expected, and I'm going to take part of the responsibility for it. The reason is, as many have pointed out, that we have had this debate many times. When I went up this debate in this round, it was because, in the form of a note, we now kind of got a statistic in which no one has doubted. I think that at least at the next crossroads we're not going to discuss the numbers. It was one moment. The second thing was that former Minister of Justice Dørum in the evening post a few weeks ago did history in relation to admission to the Police College. He even went as far as to talk about the Bolshevik way of writing history, and accused others of it. So it was kind of a response to the attempt to form opinion in relation to historical facts. Then I continued my main post to point out that the big challenge in the Norwegian police is the team situation. I don't think that is a beauty painting, as the representative Aspaker says I did in relation to today's situation. The Norwegian police are facing major challenges. We have repeatedly pointed that out. That's the main point of our bet. That's the main point in relation to the fact that we've started the manning project to get facts on the table, along with other organizations, including the Police Joint Union. When, having done that work, you don't get the credit that we think it's a problem, and in addition get the criticism that we don't implement our policy fast enough -- which is really in that proposal today -- I feel it's time to question who it is that writes the story. That was my argument to take up that ball, even though I knew it would contribute to a bad debate. But it was in the hope that in the future we could have a better debate in relation to who is responsible for what. I will not underestimate the fact that the Stoltenberg I government did not lift a finger for the Police College. It didn't. There were 240 students also under the Stoltenberg I government. It is also stated in the comments of the majority that several governments bear responsibility. So there's no attempt to neglect responsibility, just so that's said. But it's going to be something special when the responsible state council for six out of the last eight years goes to frontal attacks in the media like he did.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e525	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3135]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e541	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no change of line, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e548	The matter currently under consideration is a proposal from the representatives of the local authorities, Odd Einar Dørum and Lars Sponheim, to raise the ceiling on the amount of the head office's management of the funds of unauthorised persons from NOK 75 000 to NOK 200000. It is not the case that has created the most controversy in the Justice Committee, but it does not mean that it is not an important matter anyway. The Committee has assessed the contributions and taken into account the considerations promoted by the proposers, but it has come to the conclusion that it is not possible to say that EUR 200000 is the right amount. The Committee has therefore recommended, together, that the Government be given the task of reviewing the matter and proposing a change in the amount, while at the same time looking at a regime for the regular modification of the amount, so as to avoid having a similar debate every eight or ten years before anything happens. I also noticed that the Council of State wrote in its letter of reply that if you wanted to raise the amount limit from NOK 75 000 to NOK 200000, it might be bad enough if you lost NOK 75 000. After all, we must not forget the purpose of the law, namely to ensure that the capital of unauthorised persons - whether I can use that term - is properly and properly cared for. The law has some important intentions, which is why it is important to review this carefully before making concrete amendments. I assume, of course, that the two representatives who have put forward the proposal have done just that. However, the Committee wishes to have a broader and clearer focus on this. In addition, the Progress Party and the Right have an additional proposal that focuses on how to ensure the best possible return of the funds overseen by the State. It will also only be a positive suggestion from the minority, precisely by focusing on the best possible return on the means that the opposite sex controls. With this, I recommend the Committee's setting up and addressing the minority proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e559	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e562	In Norway, minors need protection for different reasons. It may be that the parents have fallen off, or they may have savings in excess of NOK 75 000, and the head office will be connected in order to have a responsible financial management of the funds. There's an important job going on, and the opposite imagery is doing. The Vergemålsgesetz is being revised, and that's good. A lot has happened in society since the law came for the first time in 1927. But I think it's better that we have an overall review of the law than little changes now and then. That is why the Workers' Party wants to look at the amount limit for when the head office is to direct the economy to minors, collectively at the review of the law. It might seem that 75 000 kroner are low. The proposal includes NOK 200000. Is it too loud? What's the total? We'll get back to this when we look at the law. We should also consider how the amount can be regulated on a regular basis in a reasonable way. It could be that we're going to attach it to the basic amount of popular security. I therefore look forward to dealing with the law in its entirety. Oversampling and guards are key players in the legal security of some children and adults in this country. They deserve to work in accordance with a regulatory framework that is in line with the society we live today and that best preserves the economic values of minors.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e577	At the end of a long day in Stortinget a little deaf summer day, where at times there has been some temperature, I have seen, this seems to be a matter which at least should not arouse the very high temperature, since there is a fairly wide upplay that here there is a need to do something, even if there is a little different pace. It would have been tempting to follow today's debates in Stortinget to give a general comment on a government that might express more majority arrogance than I have seen in a very long time; even we have heard representatives say that the opposition is really something that it is a bit awkward to have to deal with. That's pretty scary to hear. But I'm not going to comment on that right now -- it requires a bigger audience and a bigger format before we take that debate seriously again. In the matter we are dealing with now, I am glad that there will be such a wide dissension that there is a need to do something here. I have to say, of course, that in relation to the experience we have in getting an impact on minority proposals in this Chamber, the majority goes a long way towards admitting that something needs to be done here. It's an impressive humility from the majority that we've hardly ever seen -- it's at least a long time ago -- by saying that here there's a need to do something, and that the government hasn't really thought about everything for once. There was a little thing they had forgotten to think about, and it was maybe starting to think about adjusting these bets here. Then you can make a reflection on why we have a system where the type of rate is not automatically adjusted, so that what was originally the legislator's intention with the values behind such rates is captured more automatically, instead of one having to have these sometimes a little random ways to meet it. Here, as in other budget areas, for example: where the Ministry of Finance operates with automatic impact adjustments of rates, one should also bear in mind that one should have had a way of adjusting such more regulated rates, thus keeping the values more constant - if not every year so at least at regular intervals. Perhaps it should have been part of the ongoing investigation manual to which the different departments and departments relate. I could spend a lot of time commenting on the exact content and the details of this, but I think I just end up saying that I'm satisfied that a total magnification here chooses to go so far. I choose to take it as a support for the Left's proposal. This is not, of course, a proposal that should go up the big political divide. It's just about doing a job in an area that's important to many, and I think it's necessary to do something about it. I suppose the Council of State in its letter is a little bit weak in expressing the will to do so. But it is possible to challenge him that it is possible to sharpen and try to get this done. I believe in isolation that these amounts could have been adjusted independently of the law in and on its own, because there is a need for that. So my call to the Council of State is to express through practical proposals what it is obviously the will of the Grand Government should happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e592	In order to contribute to the evening rest in Stortinget and perhaps also the views of representatives of both themselves and others, it may be obvious to me that I think it is good to ask just the questions that are being asked here, because we are facing a group that deserves a political focus. That's why the Government believes it's right that we get a review of the legislation that now exists, given those who don't have a chance to care for their own interests. In fact, it is essential to ensure legal certainty for that group. It can speak both for and against raising this ceiling - depending on the type of security aspects that you want to base on how these funds are managed. The most general and urgent thing in this field, at least in the public debate, has been how the head office manages the funds, and what kind of returns you actually get from these managed funds. You like to get reactions when your returns aren't good enough. It is quite clear that legislation in the field of protection has not been involved in social development. The Act of Instigation dates from 1898, and the Vergemålsgesetz dates from 1927. Suffering if some adjustments have been made in recent years as well, there is a clear need for more appropriate and timely provisions. We're in the process of getting a new court order. It is a very comprehensive work that affects far more issues than those raised in this proposal, and I fully agree with the rapporteur that this must be seen in the context. It's not relaxed, it's active -- by just wanting to take it all and look at how the rights evolve in relation to this group of people who need special protection. Averaging committee has carried out a fundamental and in-depth review of the whole of the relevant legislation on minors and adults in need of protection. The Ministry of Justice is now working on a total reorganisation of the entire Vergemålsinstitut. The amounts that should apply and the financial instruments that can be chosen will be closely linked to the organisation of the protection institution to which the law will apply. In this context, we also look at the current limit of money in order to adjust it to a more appropriate amount, in the light of the time since adjustment, and the other developments in society. We should have a mechanism that regulates this amount on an annual basis in line with, for example. the basic amount of the social security. I think there is a great deal of consensus that the ceiling should be raised. The question is whether such a lifting is so important that it is prioritized before the other changes in the code of protection that we are now working on. I believe, as I said, that everything should be dealt with together. There is no urgent need for a change in the amount limit. The administration of the over-premises means that the funds are placed properly and in many cases with a better return than the private individuals can achieve with the same certainty. A key consideration of financial management is that it must be reassuring. The consideration of high returns must be subsidiary. However, the position is often so favourable that more people ask for the position in the front imagery to continue after they have reached the age of 18. The management of the funds by the head office does not mean that they cannot be used to meet the needs of children. There is a basis for emphasising the sea of today's legislation. The armed forces and, in part, the unofficial seas have revenues to cover the necessary expenditure. If the income does not extend to, the capital may be used in whole or in part when the principal and the head office have been agreed. Unfortunately, we have seen some examples that the guards are not entirely capable of distinguishing between the children’s and their own resources — and in extreme cases, children’s funds can be used for example. to finance parental drug abuse. Fortunately, the vast majority of parents are capable of caring for children’s interests. There should then be no problem in obtaining approval from the head office for the use of the funds in such a way that the parents wish. I believe that there are good reasons why the head office or similar should manage the funds of children. However, it can be discussed where the limit should be applied when the head imagery is to enter. Many believe that the limit of 75 000 kroner is too low, while those who need protection are likely to think that 75 000 kroner are much to be lost. The important thing for me is that we protect the children and others who cannot care for their own interests. The current regulation on the limit of the amount of the head office's management of the funds of unauthorised persons contributes to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e613	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Fotation, see page 3136]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e631	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3136]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e649	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3136]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e667	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3136]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e685	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3136]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e703	Unless I remember correctly, this proposal was turned into a transmission proposal during the debate on 12 February, in an attack of goodwill from the Government, so this proposal is to be submitted without a motion of censure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e708	Then the proposal is changed accordingly. Several have not asked for the word. [[Fotation, see page 3137]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e726	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e735	Norway has repeatedly been identified as the world’s best country to live in. One main reason for this is that we have a welfare society where we share the goods, and where we also have considerable resources to share. We have natural resources all over the country, and we have managed to settle this country and take care of the natural resources and transform them into well-being. It is Norway’s trademark and therefore Norway is a good country to live in. But then we unfortunately see that we have a development where there is a significant centralization. Norway slides against Oslofjorden, against Trondheimsfjorden, against Stavanger area, against Bergen, etc. It's a development that's demanding, because many of the societies that we've lived in for many years are being moved away, and it's a social problem. It's a social problem that the Storing has been concerned about, and it's been decided over and over again that you want to preserve today's housing patterns. Then why do you want to do that? Well, first of all -- as I was in the beginning -- there are a number of our natural resources lying in these areas. It is important that there are people living there, so that they take care of fish, on agriculture, on minerals, as well as having a country with which the tourism industry is satisfied. When the Business Committee is on the move, we are repeatedly told that it is so important for the tourism industry that we have the country we have. The fact that there is a settlement there when tourists come to different valleys, to different fjords, is one of the trademarks that Norwegian tourism industry sells. That's why we're dedicated to taking care of a number of the communities that unfortunately are losing so many people that they can actually get under critical mass and become totally depopulated. So the question is, what do you do with that? Well, since World War II we've had a district policy in this country where we've been working to create jobs in those areas where there's a danger that so many jobs will disappear that communities will be depopulated. It started with District Development Fund, later we got SND, and now we have Innovation Norway. But all three of these companies have an important task, namely to pursue district policy, i.e. the creation of jobs in areas facing this type of challenge. That's why we have to be very careful about the tradition that we use economic instruments in the areas that need it. When we look at Oslo, at Bergen, at Trondheim, there are so many mechanisms that actually start businesses without the state having to engage to a great extent. We see that business is going well; it's actually going so well that it's a problem for some of these cities that you can't build schools quickly enough, that public transport is too poorly developed, and that it's actually a problem that you get too strong a move. Therefore, it is totally unnatural to stimulate the creation of new jobs in the key areas, which have these kinds of challenges. The proposal of the Progress Party is therefore a violation of a tradition. It's also a violation of what the Stortinge said, that you want to keep today's housing patterns. We do not need less district policy in this country; we need much more district policy. We really need a stronger commitment to the societies that are experiencing relocation today. And it's not just for these societies, but it's for the nation. It's Norway's brand, it's Norway's soul, that we have a settlement from Finnmark in the north all the way down to Lindesnes in the south. And this soul and this trademark we must take care of. Similarly, we know that establishment is quite common among men and much less common among women. I think the wit is evenly distributed between women and men in Norway. That's why we're probably missing out on a number of competent establishments because women have less tradition and are less advanced in setting up new businesses. This is why it is also important to encourage more women to establish themselves and to receive support for their establishment, so as to exploit the resources that many women possess. I think we're still going to have it in the future so that politics is addressing challenges and doing things with areas where you see that society doesn't work well enough. In two areas, it works too badly. There is too much deportation from the districts, so we still need to have an active district policy. There are too few women who establish themselves, so we need to stimulate more women to set up businesses. The majority of the Committee will therefore reject the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e754	There is now a clear multiple in Stortinget to do everything possible to keep today's construction patterns up. The Government is actively facilitating this. by stimulating commercial activity in the districts. Innovation Norway plays an important role in this context. As stated in the Innovation Norway brochure, ‘We give local ideas global opportunities’. Innovation Norway is our most important government tool for innovation and value creation around the country. Through Innovation Norway, the various regions are triggering their economic potential. With its proposal, the Progress Party will set a line across large parts of the Innovation Norway project. When Innovation Norway was created in 2004, the business community was able to keep up with the fact that the Tourist Council, the Export Council and the State Inventors’ Guide Office were merged with the SND. Before that, there had been a process in which both DU, the Agricultural Bank, the Fiskarbanken, the Industrial Fund, the Norwegian Industrial Bank and the Small Business Fund were merged into SND. The fact that the Right supports this proposal should not surprise us. The right-wing municipal policy spokesman has recently stated that he wants to withdraw the money from the county council and Innovation Norway to build several roads. The right-wing municipal political spokesman wants to cut $1.7 billion a year, etc. industrial development in the districts to upgrade the national road network. It's good and good to build and rust up the road, but it doesn't make any sense if the result is that people in the districts can no longer live. Setting up business development and district development against each other in this way, I have little sense of it. But the fact that the Right or Advance Party is occupied by the districts is nothing new. This has not least been demonstrated when the Stortinget deals with agricultural policy, rural policy and agricultural policy. When one sums up the cuts they want to do to agriculture, and what they want to do to Innovation Norway, there won't be much left to value in the countryside and in the districts around our country. The demography, which it is called in the professional language, is alarming. It is born for a few children in the districts. And too many young people move out and into urban areas. The half-old and the old thus become far too dominant in rural areas. To reverse this, active enterprise and district policies are required. Of course, you can't force grown-ups in their 30s with children to bend in their territory if they don't want to, and lucky for it. It is crucial that adults have work opportunities. Children and young people must go to kindergarten and school. Health and care must be safe and at a high level. And the possibility of recreation in the form of either outdoors, cultural experiences or otherwise must be there. A good housing for a decent price is not off the road either. Against this background, an active state enterprise policy, with good political governance, is so crucial that it helps to achieve more societal goals. The phenomenon in Innovation Norway is an important instrument in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e777	The background to the representatives’ proposal from the Progress Party to make Innovation Norway’s instruments more flexible is the recognition that in many cases political leadership can slow down economic development. Innovation Norway’s instrumentation is largely guided by political priorities from the various government councils and departments. We believe that this is a bad approach to economic development that is taking place, because it is constantly changing, and it can therefore be difficult for politicians to know at any time where the growth potential is greater. This means that because the priority is always made political, it will be possible to become a brake on change and innovation. Innovation Norway, which is our main innovation support tool for Norwegian business, should be driven to a greater degree than at present by the needs of industry, and should not reflect the desire of politicians to act against any day-to-day need that arises. At the same time, by reducing the political leadership given to the various programmes, Innovation Norway can provide the financial muscles needed to raise larger projects, no matter where they would appear in the country. Then, if you see the need, you can combine the financial instruments from different programmes to realise important projects. We believe that an approach to the instruments in this way does not weaken the rural profile of Innovation Norway, because projects in good districts will receive the same support as today, whether it be advice or financial support. At the same time, a mechanism of instruments that triggers several projects in key strokes can also lead to more jobs in districts. The background to such a claim is that educational and research environments are centrally located, while cheap commercial areas and access to skilled labour appear to be more accessible in the districts. At the same time, we record that Innovation Norway has a goal of 40 pst. of the instruments to women. That is probably a limitation of the instruments that make it difficult to prioritize the best projects. For what happens at the end of a period, if the proportion of women is much lower than the target? Do you have to give priority to male applicants, even if they have the best projects? And what are the signals about the ability of women applicants to compete on equal terms and about the realism of the projects they have? We also have limitations on the instruments in relation to industry, which we believe are unfortunate, and which bind funds allocated into structures that are not necessarily forward-looking. We therefore believe that the instruments available through Innovation Norway are largely guided by political priorities, where benefits are obtained, based on geography, gender or industry. These are limitations that provide a low-efficiency and low-flexibility instrumentation. Putting too much political leadership on the instrument can lead to Norway missing out on many jobs. The Progress Party believes that the viability, potential and risk of the project must be the starting point for the measurement of grants by Innovation Norway. It is with the kind of priority that we can achieve the most innovative jobs, and take into account that we have an apparatus that can handle applications from industries that do not exist today but that can become future growth businesses. Innovation Norway cannot take account of all future potential growth enterprises in today’s resource allocation, and that is also why we want more transparent organisation of the instruments. Because in order to prioritize some groups, on the other hand, you also have to exclude some. And do we know today what consequences it can have for the organisation of future jobs? Finally, I would like to include in the vote the proposal of the Advance Party. Should that fall, we now warn that we want to subsidize proposal No. 1, from the Right and Christian People's Party, and proposal No. 2, from the Right and Left, in the setting. One more thing-- I see I have a little bit more time. To the representative Ryan, who was up here and was very concerned about the proportion of women who establish themselves in the business world: I would then like to refer to the action on Young Entrepreneurship in school, which has been an incredible success, which seems very good. There doesn't seem to be any difference between boys and girls getting good projects. If SV wants to, they can support us next time we promote a proposal to increase the share of Young Entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e803	The representative Kåre Fostervold has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e806	It is important that the instrument operates in the best possible way, both for the efficient use of Community funds and also for the achievement of important objectives, such as future employment, value creation and housing. Innovation Norway was established in 2004 by the then Minister of Enterprise Ansgar Gabrielsen. A merger of the SND, the Norwegian Export Council, the Norwegian Tourist Council and the State Inventors’ Guidance Office was intended to contribute to the important simplification work undertaken by the Cooperation Government. In retrospect, on several occasions the Right has expressed scepticism as to whether there is a proper use of funds that the county has built up an instrument structure that works in parallel with Innovation Norway. Therefore, the right considers that it is high time to carry out a thorough review of the instrument and therefore promotes the following proposals: ‘The Government is asked to carry out an overall evaluation of the public instrument for enterprise-related support. Special emphasis is requested on the achievement of results, the criteria for allocation and the adaptation of systems to users. It is further requested that the evaluation should assess whether both the county municipality and Innovation Norway are actors in today’s instrument.’ We live in a globalised society that needs rapid and major changes both in the private and public sectors. It is therefore more important than ever to accept that Norway is dependent on a business life as the ability to make rapid and often controversial changes. General economic policy and fiscal policy are the cornerstones of the instrument. Therefore, the right does not want to pursue a selective industrial policy that premises companies that are going badly, rather than bet on enterprises that are likely to develop positively in the future. As long as an instrument is managed by political priorities where gender, geography, industry, etc. given too much weight, it may mean that it is not always the enterprise with the best idea or the highest growth potential to be met. However, the right considers that there should be room to take into account regional policy considerations, as it is both necessary and desirable to achieve a country-wide settlement, while at the same time we believe it helps to increase value creation on the basis of regional assumptions. All private activities are profit-driven, and employment is the basis for any part of the country or district. Right does not want to downgrade good measures or liquidate the instrument. On the contrary, we believe that there is a need for public action where the market is not working properly enough. In the right, there is a need for a good and predictable tool across the country that contributes to the commercialisation of several good nutrition ideas. Good infrastructure with safe roads is also needed. Increased efforts on innovation, business development, internationalisation, research and development contracts, maritime development, increased entrepreneurship and good transport years to transport the goods produced by industry are important for Norway to continue to compete in a tough international competition in the future. In this context, Innovation Norway has a very important role to play. I am in favour of proposal No. 1, from the Right and Christian People's Party, quoted earlier, and proposal No. 2, from the Right and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e833	The representative Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e836	The Christian People's Party sees no need to change the objectives of Innovation Norway. It is very important that Innovation Norway continues to have both industrial policy and district policy objectives on innovation, entrepreneurship, employment, construction and increased value-added across the country. It is important that start-up projects and start-ups are provided with the necessary capital. The combination of high risk and distance between founder, researcher and investor is likely to be an important reason for the lack of such capital. The Christian People's Party will emphasise that the commitment to gender equality provides added value, and that Innovation Norway must work to ensure that good women's-driven projects are implemented. We do not hide the fact that Innovation Norway’s objectives are required to be met. It is therefore important that the various measures to ensure the best possible use of Community funds be evaluated at regular intervals and that Innovation Norway achieves important objectives such as value creation and employment across the country. Innovation Norway was created on 1 January 2004 through the addition of the State Food and Rural Development Fund (SND) - Norway Export Council, the Norwegian Tourist Council and the State Inventors Guidance Office to the new institution. So this is in many ways a young organization. The Christian People's Party and the Right believe that it is now time to evaluate this. Anticipating the innovation message will mean that the evaluation was far too far ahead. Over time, an important tool structure has been built up in the counties. This may be positive, but at the same time it's a challenge to build up more parallel services. It can make the landscape even more incomprehensible to the users. The Christian People's Party sees Innovation Norway as an important piece in a larger, holistic policy for innovation and value creation. In this broad picture, elements such as education and knowledge, a well-functioning labour market, adequate competition in product markets, a good tax system and a simple and effective regulatory framework are very important. We look forward to the government's action plan for a holistic innovation policy, and we hope that he will make concrete proposals on these key areas of the Norwegian economy and for Norwegian innovation. Against this background, the Christian People's Party will vote against the presentation by the Progress Party of changing the objectives of Innovation Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e853	This proposal by the Progress Party, which has been discussed by the Business Committee, is probably an undisguised attack on an active district policy, and it goes hand in hand with the range of other proposals promoted by the Progress Party and the other profile of the Party's policy. As far as agricultural policy is concerned, it is roughly the same. All structural issues are systematically disfavored by the Norwegian districts, the municipal economy and the municipal structure of the like, and so it is now the government's industrial policy that is being ignored in the policy of the Progress Party. There is reason to remember that this is a clear breach of what has been a relatively broad consensus in this Chamber, namely that we need to have an active policy to ensure some goals, among them equality between cities and towns, housing across the country and opportunities to put the whole country into use. It's the way politics is to want something. It is also true that if you want to have active and living districts, if you want to have more women in the business world, if you have ambitions on behalf of some industries, it will have consequences for the policies to be pursued by the community. An image is created of the fact that here are the districts that are prioritised at the expense of others, understanding that then there are central struts that once again pay for schemes that benefit the districts. I don't live in that world. It's the total that counts. It is still the case in this country that many of the values created in Norwegian districts, much of what we live by, are created along the coast and inland. We live on the resources that exist there, and then they're brought into the city. Our universities, for which this room also pays, are among other things. financed by taxes from districts. There are 36 000 public jobs in Oslo. Show me the community that wouldn't have flourished if you had added it to 36 000 jobs! You have to include that in the picture, so it would just be missing if you didn't have the opportunity to pursue a targeted policy in this area. So we have to ask ourselves: how will development be if you want to remove the district profile? Is it true that we are struggling with over-establishment in the districts, and that we have under-establishment in the big cities and in the central districts? It's not like that either. That's the opposite. There is now, more than ever, a need to fill up and put the whole country into action and have the will to pursue an active policy to achieve these objectives. I would like to remind you that we have a good history of using the state and the public agency offensively to achieve the goals we have set. There are many success stories around Norway related to just this. The Progress Party is promoting here a proposal that I believe bears the mark of their ideology. It is the same kind of proposal that has been made in the past, which has been said to abdicate the State in the field of petroleum policy, that it should be left to foreign companies. At least we have to be happy that we have not chosen to conduct the policy of the Progress Party on these issues. I want to end by saying that I am a hot defender of the way Innovation Norway works, the way we have set our goals, and the way we are willing to use power to achieve these goals. That's not the same thing as we're not going to change anything, ever. This instrument and policy area need to be developed, like everything else, and we may need to change the objectives and the use of instruments as we see needs changing. It is also the case that, if the systems are to have legitimacy, it must be possible to apply for these instruments even in the central regions of the country. I feel that it's de facto. All of these debates are given the opportunity to take place later. But we're going to have clear goals, and we're going to have the will to implement, and we're not going to adduce in any way, to which I feel this is an invitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e871	Norway must have companies that succeed in international competition in order to ensure value creation and thus our common future well-being. Good conditions do not come of themselves. Action and political will for renewal and concentrated efforts are required. In order to create safe jobs, it is essential to have a generally good framework for all parts of business and, secondly, a targeted effort to ensure the undergrowth of unborn enterprises and the development of more and better knowledge-based enterprises. That is what Norway will live on in the future. Therefore, public sector instruments need to focus much more on innovation, transformation and innovation. We must release creativity and creativity. We must bet on entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs, and there must be less regulation and regulation. Unfortunately, there was a disappointing news message today. It was said that entrepreneurship in Norway is on the verge. Only 6.5 pst. of the adult population aged between 18 and 64 were involved in entrepreneurial activity last year. The share is the lowest since 2000, and it is an alarming trend that we all have a responsibility to address, both the Council of State and we who sit on the Stortinget. I share some of the objections to today's system as expressed in the proposal of the representatives of the Progress Party. Left, and I, believe that it may be a thought to divide Innovation Norway into two different units, a unit that is focused on more district-oriented instruments, with the main aim of ensuring housing and value creation where there is a special need for it, and a unit that is focused on ensuring innovation and business development, regardless of geography, industry, gender, etc. In this way, in my view, rural policy considerations could be optimised on the one hand and innovation and industrial development on the other. I would like to stress that we need particularly district-oriented instruments, which remain the basis for stimulation and value creation around the districts. However, I would like to stress that what I am saying here is not a criticism of Innovation Norway as it works today, but a recognition that the times are changing, and that the instruments should be changed in time. In 15 years, Norway will be a well-trained society. 80 pst. of us want higher education. This will lead most people to request work that is perceived as relevant. The distinction between work and leisure, between work and home will become more and more blurred. Whether we like it or not, working life will be more flexible. We want to change jobs more often, and many will choose to go straight to the market with their knowledge, not detour via an employer. It is a development that the Left is more than happy to welcome, but also a development that makes artificial distinctions in Innovation Norway’s instruments between geography, industry and gender not feel particularly appropriate or forward-looking. I do not claim that the thoughts I come with are too well thought out, but I hope that they can be included in a further assessment of the innovation activities of Norway. I therefore express a little humility about what I am saying, but I hope, as I said, that this may be the basis for a closer assessment. That is why I hope that the Government - when it finally presents its announced action plan - will have a comprehensive innovation policy, and also make a thorough assessment of whether the time is not ripe for such a two-way division of Innovation Norway as the Left here calls for. Finally, I just want to underline what others have been facing, namely that we need an effective, district-oriented device that takes account of the special challenges we have at a time of very strong centralisation. We must have a public instrument that is trying to facilitate development across the country. The Left is voting against the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e892	Innovation Norway has important tasks both in national industrial policy and in district policy. This is reflected in the amount and distribution of the appropriations allocated to Innovation Norway. I note that the majority of the Committee agrees with the Government that we have achieved a good balance between nationwide and district-oriented instruments. It has demonstrated this both through the referral to this matter and through the decisions taken by the Stortinget in relation to the annual budgets of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. I would like to stress that the Government believes it is important to have a good balance between nationwide and district-oriented instruments. National instruments shall ensure the financing of the best projects, irrespective of location. The regional instruments shall help to maintain the main features of the housing pattern and to increase value creation based on regional assumptions. There is a clear majority in the UK to maintain the main features of today’s housing patterns in Norway. The government will pursue a policy that contributes to a balanced development between city and country. This is why we are facilitating the presence of Innovation Norway in the districts. However, no one is excluded from being able to apply for support from Innovation Norway. Our strategic national efforts build on the goal of creating jobs across the country. The government has chosen to invest specifically in some industries, and has presented a maritime strategy and a national strategy for the tourism industry for the past six months. The instrument has an important role to play in promoting innovative projects and good ideas in these industries. In addition, the Government has given the instrument a particularly active role to some target groups, such as women and young people. Their ideas compete with good ideas from other groups. The government is committed to promoting entrepreneurship among women. That is why I have launched an action plan for more entrepreneurship among women, because they contribute to profitable business development across the country. The government will further stimulate it through increased efforts, including: through the instrumentation. It is important to evaluate the country’s instruments and the institutions that manage them. The government will therefore start work on an evaluation of Innovation Norway in 2009. Innovation Norway was established in 2004. It is now time to be able to assess the impact of the merger of the institutions carried out in 2004 and the results achieved by Innovation Norway. Government’s commitment to business and district development through Innovation Norway contributes to the creation of safe jobs and value creation across the country. The Government will continue to do so. For us, the establishment of the State Investment Company AS is one of the steps to have a good balance between the nationwide and district-oriented instruments. The company is available for business throughout the country. It will invest in rural enterprises as long as it considers that these enterprises do not have lower potential value creation or higher risk than other enterprises. I have strong faith that in the districts there will be a large number of companies where it will be interesting for the investment company to enter with equity.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e913	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e916	Technical weekly estimates show that Innovation Norway spends a quarter of a million people on every job they save or create. It's hard to know what should be an exact sum and a reasonable amount, but the sum is so high that there's a basis for asking questions about whether we're using society's resources in the best way, as they are managed through Innovation Norway. For this reason, I would like to ask the Council of State whether he does not believe that these calculations should provide a basis for a review and a comprehensive evaluation of Innovation Norway, so that we can better determine whether the instrument is well-designed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e923	Now I have just said that I intend to initiate an evaluation of Innovation Norway - so that the question has been answered so far. Of course, we need to evaluate whether all instruments are effective. I remember from my time as Minister of Agriculture -- it started to be quite many years ago -- that we managed the rural development funds and had an evaluation of them in a few states. It is now managed by Innovation Norway. Then it turned out that it was one of the most effective tools we had. It also appeared that the safest investment in the creation of new jobs – which was a very effective investment through urban development funds – was in fact the investments made by women, which is relevant to the proposals of the Progress Party. So we need to have a review to look at which instruments are most effective, and who is most effective in terms of employment, and in terms of district policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e932	Four years have passed since the establishment of Innovation Norway, and the Right therefore considers it urgent to carry out a thorough review of the scheme, in particular in view of the effective use of Community funds, but also in view of achieving important objectives such as employment, value creation and housing. I registered that in his statement, the Council of State said that he would start the evaluation of Innovation Norway in 2009. Does the Council not see the urgency of carrying out a critical review after such a major reorganisation, in order to ensure that Community funds are used in the best possible way? When in 2009, in that case, will an evaluation come?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e939	That's how I'm going to talk about that evaluation of the Innovation Communication, which I've said will be presented during 2008. I am prepared to carry out such an evaluation as soon as possible in 2009. If I can say it that way, it might be a familiar case that the kind of evaluations that will be based on, among other things. to external consultants and those types of things, require a certain degree of accuracy and regularity in the matter of tendering, the proper conclusion of contracts, etc. Of course, we should do that in that matter too. I can therefore not now say a date for the evaluation to be completed. I am concerned that the evaluation should be good, and there I think the representative Røbekk Nørve and I agree. Then, although this was established in 2004, such an establishment should be given some time before it has a basis for evaluation. I remember, among other things, that until recently we have set up new Norwegian Centres of Expertise, for example, with which we have very brief experience as a basis for evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e946	As I said in my post, there was a significant decrease from 2006 to 2007 in the number of persons involved who were participants in the company, in fact a decrease of approximately. 30 pst. The same report that became known today also shows that there is a sharp decrease in the number of people who can imagine starting their own businesses within three years. These are alarming signals when we know that there is a need to constantly create new jobs, that jobs are lost, that we need to change and that new ones need to become a reality. Does the Council agree that a take-off should now be made in terms of social arrangements, organisation and incentives for entrepreneurs, so as to facilitate the start-up of small businesses in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e953	Now we've taken some steps to make it easier to do self-employment compared to being an employee, for example. in the case of the option of paid maternity leave, which has been one of the most central and requested instruments in that context. Otherwise, in 2007, there were 51,000 new establishments. There has never been such a large number of new establishments, so the willingness to set up in Norway is actually very large. But I agree that one of the things we should look at when we are going to carry out a thorough evaluation of Innovation Norway is whether Innovation Norway contributes to the effective creation of jobs. In addition to the number of establishments, I think it is equally important to evaluate the survival capacity over the years to the newly established jobs. That's why I think it's right to take an evaluation when it's been four-five years.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e958	The Council of State now announces that this evaluation will be carried out as quickly as possible, and based on the experience we have at the pace of the Government's commitment to consultants, it is estimated that it will be fairly rapid in 2009. The right will therefore make this proposal, proposal No. 1 to a transmission proposal in connection with today's vote. It might have been interesting to hear the Council of State's perception of the effectiveness of the instrument, based on what we've seen so far. How does it work in relation to the creation of new jobs, and what is the impression as to the response of enterprises to the service provided by Innovation Norway to business today?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e965	One gets different signals about it. Sometimes there are regional differences, where an establishment is very pleased with Innovation Norway in its district, others may not be so satisfied in its district. So there will always be some projects that are weighed and found too easy, and one then believes that it is Innovation Norway that has not done a good enough job. It could also be, actually, that they've done a good enough job, and that kind of response I get a part of. So I registered at the NHO conference this year that the positive examples they used for competence-based new job development were related to places where we have established the Norwegian Centres of Expertise. I'm relatively sure that at least it's an instrument that works very well as a top competence environment. But the whole of the assessments the representative is asking for, we only get once we have had a thorough review and a thorough evaluation. Let me also say that I am pleased that there is a broad support from the Right too, although one may perhaps be able to discuss nuances, for Innovation Norway to be a tool both for district policy and for general business start-ups.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e975	The representative Torbjørn Hansen has referred to proposal No. 1 for a transmission proposal. No more words have been asked for a line. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e982	The Progress Party believes Innovation Norway plays an important role in exploiting the potential of Norwegian innovation. The tax money transferred to Innovation Norway should therefore have one overall objective: to support those ideas that are best placed to succeed in a global market, regardless of where these ideas hatch, regardless of whether these ideas are hatched by a woman or a man, but instead, Innovation Norway sets a number of restrictive criteria for which projects are to be supported. That's not what I'm going to mention in my post, but I want to ask the Minister of Industry, and so far also the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, some questions. You all agree that there is a pressure in the Norwegian economy. You all agree that a further one kroner spent on the State budget will lead to inflation, pressure on the krone price and the deflagration of Norwegian jobs. You all agree that there is a shortage of labour. I've never heard that it was dependent on where in the country you were, but that's interesting. I'm going to bring back to the finance committee and the financial fraction that there is no shortage of labour in parts of Norway. That's interesting, and I'm going to look at how we put up our state budget on the basis of the information that came from several red-green representatives here today. My questions are: why would you want to spend SEK 5 billion, or within SEK 5 billion, on Innovation Norway if this has all these negative consequences, when, according to Innovation Norway, one kr spent on Innovation Norway has the potential to take the four-timer, so that increased activity in the Norwegian economy is DKK 20 billion worth DKK 5 billion? How does it relate to the fact that you can't use one penny to build infrastructure, which is our responsibility, when you can spend $5 billion on things that are essentially not our responsibility? I would like an answer to that question. More jobs are needed in the districts. In other words, they are available in the districts. There is a shortage of labour in the central strata, it has been said today, and then the government medicine: it is totally wrong to move the free hands from where they are - it was said today by case-rapporteur Ryan that there are vacant hands in the districts - to the central strata where there is a shortage of labour. What you do is increase agricultural subsidies, have special criteria for those living in the districts, so that they have better access to funding from Innovation Norway. Is there a future-oriented vision for Norway in terms of business and what it will look like in this country 10-20-30-40-50 years ahead? Are these subsidies only to be increased and increased, and where is the real limit on how much subsidies you want to give to the districts, because people are still fleeing from the districts to the cities? Why not increase the proportion of the districts so that people stay there, if they think it's the right medicine for people to stay in the districts? The progress party has no faith in that medicine, no matter how much you use it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e995	I choose to take the word in the light of the last speaker said. I think there are a lot of people looking at Norway because we have managed to keep a housing pattern that is actually one of the best in Europe, and we have because there has been a unified policy in the Stortinget. There has been some disagreement about the dosage, but agreement that it is important that we have residency throughout the country. What the Progress Party's representative is now saying is that it is not so careful to have a residence throughout the country, it is not necessary to pursue a policy where it is seen that it is important to populate Lofoten, the West, the areas of Gudbrandsdalen, etc. That is interesting, because I think the Progress Party is all on its own. Then the Progress Party is constantly getting back to the word'subsidies' - all the subsidies that go to District Norway. The largest action zone we have is Oslo. There are no places where we have as many measures as in Oslo in terms of public employment, cultural investment and infrastructure investment. That's hundreds of times what you rate in some parts of the country. But then it's like this -- and we see it in SV as well -- that it's right to bet on cultural actions like opera and theater in the capital. It is right to invest in measures such as good infrastructure, rail, tram, etc. in such a densely populated area. But then we have some challenges in the districts, and that is among other things. lack of jobs. It is true that measures are also being taken there. It is not the case that measures in District Norway where there is a need to be met must be seen as unnecessary subsidies, while measures in cities where there is a need are good policies. Both are good policies. We need a policy that is in a way a part of governing social development, and therefore it is right that we have a district policy that helps create jobs in those areas where we need new jobs. It's not subsidies, it's good policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e1008	Since the representative Tybring-Gjedde asked some questions, and has not yet received an answer, I will make a small contribution while the representatives who got that challenge are thinking about what to answer, because I expect that there are some people who want to answer the challenges Tybring-Gjedde came up with. I just want to add some comments to the posts that are held today, where in many ways I don't recognize myself in the reality descriptions. I just want to remind the red-green and some others that a year and a half ago, the Progress Party promoted a proposal to move the North-West Russia Investment Fund from Oslo to the Church. That is what the red-green parties voted against. They didn't want to. I don't know if you use the word 'district policy' about it, but at least that's the reality. Then the red-green are busy with the districts and workplaces. Yes, so are we in the Progress Party. I'll give you a good example, the Snow White extension outside Hammerfest. It was suggested that local and regional businesses should be awarded contracts for approx. 600 million. kr. I guess the sum has now come up to about NOK 4 billion. There was the situation where the Center Party voted against the Snow White extension. SV voted against the Snow White extension, and they also linked themselves up there. And half of the working party, with the AUF at its head, was against the Snow White expansion. So it is the district policy that the red-green forefects in this Chamber. To SV: It's kind of interesting to hear the posts of Ryan, the representative, where you're so busy distributing money to different projects around the country. The means that are being distributed must be created somewhere. Much of the money you have comes from the oil and gas sector. I just want to ask Ryan, what oil and gas project has SV voted in favour of in this Chamber? The representative Ryan doesn't need a three-minute post to explain it. He doesn't even need a minute to explain it, because SV has voted against all the projects and the value creation it provides, both nationally and regionally, in the form of also having a supplier industry located around Norway. The representative of the Central Party has been on this pulpit and talked about an active district policy. Yes, we have an active district policy, and that is among other things. to bet on transportation, on the roads. He also mentioned that we want to rage over the local economy. There are no parties on the Stortinget that have made proposals for more transfer to the municipalities than the Progress Party. There's still empty water in the pools, and that's the red-greens' profit-- or guilt.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e1021	I do not intend to go into the representative of Korsberg's claim that there is no water in the pools, but rather take as a starting point the questions asked by the representative Tybring-Gjedde. I wonder if there is any confusion outside and going, because the representative Tybring-Gjedde claimed that the crowns in the system of Innovation Norway are inflationary. I have looked at the proposal we are now discussing, and it is therefore not proposed to reduce the use of money - not there. Sometimes it is proposed by the Progress Party in the budget, but not there. It is proposed that all schemes be made available throughout the country. There is no savings, which you can get the impression of in the posts of the representative Tybring-Gjedde, so it must be due to a misunderstanding. When the same representative claims that, year after year in Norway, we have used non-functioning district policy instruments, I would recommend the representative not to take another trip across the Swedish border. The representative may, for example: go to the Lierne in Nord-Trøndelag and look at the settlement there, with well maintained farms, land in operation and active forestry, and then cross the Swedish border and look at the conditions in similar areas on the Swedish side. In this way, we can take region by region and compare rural policy in Norway with the results of it with rural policy in, for example. Sweden, which is quite close to us. There is no doubt that the means of regional policy - which, fortunately, there is a very broad consensus on general terms in the Stortinget, cf. This debate - works in terms of helping us to maintain the goal of most parties, of a scattered settlement and good living standards across the country. So the representative says Tybring-Gjedde that we can't spend one penny on transportation. There have not been as many dollars spent on transportation as it is now! Now the exact number of dollars spent on transportation as a total opposition in the previous period, including the Advance Party, agreed that it would be in the national transport plan. What is sensational is that it is the first time in world history that a Norwegian government complies with an adopted national transport plan. So it's important to invest in transportation, we're completely in agreement about that. In terms of demand pressures and the type of things related to the instruments in Innovation Norway, I can finally say that my ambition with the industrial policy in Norway is that we are now going to take the steps that ensure the long-term development of employment in areas where we have competitive advantages, so that we can land this high economic period that we are in, in a soft way to have something to live on after oil and gas.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e1032	I had not imagined that I would be provoked to go down here tonight and take the word, but SV's representative Ryan provoked me so much that I couldn't stop. When you talk about district policy -- and now I'm going to deal with Finnmark -- it's actually so that this house has adopted a kind of policy that is anti all the development of nutrition. In Finnmark we've got something called FeFo, which is a result of the Finnmark property. On that board there are three representatives from the Sametinget and three from the County Council. And FeFo has become a common kid in Finnmark. First, they shall have the highest possible price of the property they manage, related to sale or rental. And there's no competition for this property, which consists of 96 pst. of the areas of Finnland. In other words, they are a monopolist who can demand any price they may want. They don't want to feed Finnmark. On the contrary, they stop all nutritional measures. In addition, we have a combination that requires an indigenous fee when setting up mineral companies. One has a reindeer management that requires compensation and maximum compensation for abandoned areas for industry. Then maybe Ryan can explain to me how Finnmark stands for a sensible business policy, when all public bodies have both fees and veto rights when it comes to what they want to put in place. SV shall not strike the chest with its industrial policy. Where were you when Melkoya was adopted? The most important bauta we have today in Finnmark, you went against it! Is it regional enterprise policy? For me, SV's policy reminds me of playing down to the districts, because that's what it does in principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e1043	The President must remember that direct speech should not be used and that all speech should go through the President. There are probably more than just representatives of Fredriksen who should be aware of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e1046	When one listens to the Progress Party here today, a few people can get the impression that Norwegian district policy has not worked at all, that we are just throwing money around us, and that there are few or no results. In any case, it was said in clear terms from this pulpit that such a policy will never be supported by the Progress Party. I also want to draw attention to what reality looks like in Norway and what reality looks like in countries we want to compare with. It is quite different to travel around Sweden, where there has been no active district policy, and see how that country has stood up. These are good results, and these results have not come of their own. They have just arrived because there has been a will and an ability to give priority in many fields, ranging from transport to industrial policy and the public development of education services, and I am both happy and relatively proud that I live in a country where there has been a slogan that there should be an equal status between city and village. Tybring-Gjedde took this up with pressure in the economy, and I want to comment on that. It is that, despite the fact that an active district policy is pursued, there is pressure in all high economic cycles - they are centralizing in themselves - in the central areas. We also experience that today. There is, after all, another reason for strengthening, and not reducing, regional policy instruments. I am myself from Trondheim, and have a lot of experience from there. It is not unproblematic for a community, for a municipality or a city of Trondheim’s size, to deal with the pressure problem that comes from its growing uninhibited. We'll learn all about that when we get here, against Oslo. Now the income system of Oslo is being discussed, and then Oslo is only out to point out all the problems that pressure and growth bring, and demand economic compensation for it. It has been said that Norwegian district policy is paid by oil, that is, it is the oil money that finances this. Once again, I want to use Norwegian oil policy over the past 40-50 years as a very good example of how an active state, the will for politics and the will to govern, has led to a balanced development across the country, a balanced development that has benefited the community. It is therefore not the majority in this Chamber who have put forward constitutional proposals that you should not use the surplus for anything other than pensions, which have proposed tax havens, which have proposed deregulation of the oil sector and more governance of the oil companies, a policy that would have made an active policy impossible and, on the contrary, transferred profits to large multinational companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e1059	The Council of State stated that the proposals of the Progress Party will not restrict the activity of the Norwegian economy. But then we have never claimed that the Norwegian economy is a planned economy. It is the government that claims that you cannot use one more penny on infrastructure without creating inflation, out-flagging jobs and pressing the crown. It is not the Progress Party that claims this. It's the government, it's the government that the government is part of, that claims this, so don't come and tell the Progress Party that our proposal doesn't create less pressure in the economy -- it's completely meaningless. Let's take a balanced budget for 2007, a very well-balanced budget of 42 billion dollars more in income from the mainland economy. In order to create NOK 42 billion more in the income of the mainland economy in tax and VAT revenue, the activity must be NOK 170 billion higher, if you take 25 pst. VAT/tax calculation. There was no pressure on the price of the crown, the flagging off of jobs and the inflation of it. But when, in the context of the same budget, i.e. for 2007, the Progress Party proposed spending 22 billion more on tax, infrastructure and cuts in the public sector, which was therefore our proposal, it was irresponsible. It was irresponsible fiscal policy. It would create all these negative things. The Norwegian economy managed SEK 170 billion, which the government did not foresee the year before, but it did not succeed at NOK 22 billion - then everything would have gone wrong. It's not on your fingertips. The financial policy of the Government is simply not linked. When they say that you can spend $5 billion on Innovation Norway, which creates $20 billion in activity, there's suddenly no pressure in the economy. If the government really thought there was pressure in the economy, it would say: nothing for money in the central struts, because there are so many vacant hands in the districts according to the red-green ones, so there it can spend a lot of money. Then you would have been consistent. But you're not. You say that you spend most of the money in central areas, and then you spend some of it in the districts. After all, we are creating pressure in the economy, against which the Halvorsen State Council warns. But innovation Norway is a matter of its own, because it has its own state council. But when it comes to what the Minister of Finance is doing, there is pressure in the economy. You can't use one penny more than the government decides in its government budget!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e1066	Once again, the President must remember this with direct speech. Then it's Steinar Gullvåg, who's the last drawn speaker. The President is tempted to use methods as a user in other contexts, simply to set a line, but it does not allow the Rules of Procedure, so he does not.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e1071	I must say I have sometimes wondered what kind of catch the representative Tybring-Gjedde is holding when he ascends this pulpit, because it is clear that he has problems with the balance. But if he is in doubt that the pressure in the Norwegian economy should be taken seriously and can have very serious consequences, I would remind you that we had a period in the mid-1980s when the Willoch government released the free credit policy and let almost everyone and any loan what they could - which they also did - over all the pipes and thanks. They consumed and used it with the result that we got an overheating in the economy, which meant that we had to take immediate action to mitigate the situation. You had to do rescue operations to the banking community, and we've never been so close to the old socialist goal of getting a socialization of the banking system as in that particular period. But I assume that these are not the times that Tybring-Gjedde wants to go back to when he sits over all the economic laws and guidelines, when he appeals to a consumption and investment beyond all the borders of this society. A boundary goes somewhere. I am aware that that limit does not exist for the Progress Party. And: I want to say a few things about transport policy, because I agree that transport policy has a significant impact on business policy and is a crucial tool for us to get people to build and live and work across all parts of the country, and I say in all parts of the country. If the Progress Party had had any influence on the transport policy in this country, most of the road development would have stopped, as road development has stopped in the Tønsberg area because the Progress Party has managed to get a majority to put an end to all the user financing of road development in this area. If the Progress Party has an influence on road policy, the E18 development in Westfold will stop. That is what is the reality of the policy of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e1079	Several representatives of the Progress Party have commented on my post, so I thought I would give a comment back. First to Finnmark. There is no doubt that the place where we operate most active district policies in Norway is in Finnmark and Nord-Troms - and that's right. That's right because it's the most marginal area we have. It was not obvious in 1945, when large parts of Finnmark were burned down, that they were to rebuild it. The government of Gerhardsen made a choice - a very wise choice - that was put on Finnmark. Today, we've raised a population of 75 000 people, but it's still very marginal. Obviously, the fact that we were betting on Finnmark was true for a lot of reasons. Firstly, there are huge natural resources located in Finnland, both on land and off the coast, not least. It is also of great strategic importance for Norway. So the effort made in 1945 was right, and it's important that we carry on that tradition. It is then that we must have an active district policy. I see the representative Sponheim sitting at the back of the hall. I remember that in the last period I was at Sponheim and negotiated to have a regional office set up by the Food Agency for Kautokeino. It was a wise choice of the previous government, that one would add that type of jobs to Finnmark. Clearly, the main resource in Finnmark is the fish. It's the one that's historically been the resource you've been harvesting all along, which you'll also reap in the future. So to Korsberg's question about SV's skepticism about oil and gas extraction: Yes, SV is a party that is critical of oil and gas extraction because we are afraid that we should then go too fast, and that it can go beyond such an important resource as fish, not least in North Norway. It is both historical and in the future such an enormously important resource. It's actually an eternal resource -- unlike oil and gas. Finally, as the rapporteur-in-Office, I must say that I am very pleased that we have a majority in this Parliament that rejects the policy of the Progress Party in this area. Had the Progress Party been given control of Norwegian district policy, we would probably have had a settlement between Lillehammer and Drammen. It had still been scattered, but it had been a different Norway from what we see today -- the Norway that travel life wants, and many of us are proud that we have managed to settle from Finnmark down to Lindesnes. It's important, and it's a tradition we're going to take care of, a tradition that many politicians have fought for before us. I believe that the attitude of the individual representatives of the Progress Party is a bottomless historylessness. Yes, it's bottomless!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e1092	It's possible that you're historyless, but I can inform Ryan's representative that I actually have a great interest in history. You talk about district policy, and you talk about Finnmark. Yes, is it nice that you have to go in with extraordinary means when you know today that the Altafjord is at peace, the Porsangerfjord is at peace, the Tanafjord is at peace, and in addition, large parts of Varangerfjord is at peace - related to national salmon fjords? You can't start feeding here. In addition, Obere Anárjohka National Park, Stabbursdalen National Park, Obere Pasvik National Park and Varanger National Park – National Parks of the size of several counties in South Norway! Then you say to yourself, yes, we're dealing with district policy, and we're transferring money there. Yes, thank you for that! Those who live there are not allowed to practice anything. That's the big problem. In addition, when you represent a party that goes against all the development of oil and gas in the north, it goes without saying that with some party's policy you put the hook on the door, it's SV's policy. Let me also tell the representative Gullvåg that I am able to remember a debate here in the house where he made a settlement with the council of Navarsete because of too little money spent on transportation. I don't think his settlement was taken very well into my own party. Since then it has been quiet!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e1103	It has been a pleasant experience to follow the debate. What most other parties have thrown themselves over is that because we want universal solutions, we are district hostile. We are district hostile because we want solutions that are for everyone, i.e. projects, schemes that everyone can apply for. Then all of a sudden we're hostile to the districts. I can't see it. I think the senses and the good ideas are evenly distributed throughout the country. In that case, it will trigger funds from Innovation Norway in any case. The majority of those who have spoken in this case may feel that they have less ideas, less competence and less projects in the districts than in the central districts. We believe that a universal system does not discriminate against the districts at all. If we have to earmark most of the funds for Innovation Norway for the districts because they think they have worse projects out there, then it's no longer support. Let's talk about subsidization. So I just have to get into this by the way. I agree with Mr Gullvåg, who was involved. If we are to talk about districts and the possibility of both living in the district, maintaining youth in the district and investing in the district, it must be put on the road. Then it doesn't help to stand on this platform and boast that you have fulfilled your national transport plan when you know that the assumption for NTP was a completely different price level from what it is today. There has to be a huge amount of commitment to transport, both on the road and on the road, if we are to experience the emergence of new places in the districts and the need for young people to remain. I've had the pleasure to travel country and beach around with the nutrition committee, and I've met many skilled entrepreneurs. I've seen lots of good projects, and I've seen companies that have grown huge. Not necessarily because Innovation Norway has stood there with an envelope of some money, but because the idea was good, because the ability to put all the effort into growing and producing the companies has been good. I want universal solutions, because then everyone can apply to them, and innovation gives Norway the opportunity to raise larger projects where the need would come, whether in districts or in central areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e1114	There is clearly a need to refresh the memory of the representative Fredriksen. He is right that at some point I let myself out with the Minister of Transport in one particular matter. This was about the double-track Barkåker-Tønsberg, for which I felt I was going to be expanded, and still eager. Now, the case that no less than three government councils through a 2009 pre-budget leak has told the public that the double-track Barkårker-Tønsberg will be in 2009. It's an excellent decision, and it's an excellent budget leak, which we're looking forward to meeting in all of southern Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e1119	I'm really just going to make a small, moderate contribution not to prolong this debate. In the last round, after the debate went over to three-minute posts, it has been interesting to look at the angle that some people take: Ola Borten Moe would like to talk about other countries. He did not want to talk about the situation in Norway, but referred to Sweden. Steinar Gullvåg was in his first post back in the 1980s and wanted to talk about Willoch, and Inge Ryan was back after the war to talk about Finnmark. He indicated that the Kautokeino Food Authority had been given and that it was a good business policy. But Inge Ryan did not really answer the challenge that I gave him: What oil and gas project has SV been for? The reality - and I can give the answer here now - is not that you are critical of the oil and gas policy that is being pursued in the country, you are opposed to it. If SV had run alone in this room, it would not have been built out a single project. That is the reality. Then the representative, Inge Ryan, showed how important fish are to Finnmark. Yes, fish are very important for Finnmark, but the representative Inge Ryan must also remember the structural message that this government, which SV is part of, has presented. So you had to structure it all the way down to 10 meters. It led to a massive uprising along the whole coast against the fisheries policy that this red-green government is leading. I think he has to take that with him. Then it is shown that with the policies of the Progress Party, everyone would have lived somewhere between Drammen and Oslo. That's quite strange, because I'm not going to say that Oslo is perhaps one of the worst places in the elections, but we're doing very well in elections all over Norway. What's going on? Well, it's because we have just the best policy, and there's more and more people starting to realize it, even where they run agriculture. Rogaland is one of the largest agricultural groups. There they have in fact realized that the policy that this government is pursuing, and that SV is at the forefront, is not leading. They are aware of the need to have an active and good agricultural policy, they need to have new elements. It is no longer useful to leave the farmers' organisations on the ferry door and call for more money. You can't get away with it. You have to treat Norwegian farmers as what they are, namely self-employed. Thank you. Then I think I'll finish now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e1132	It was a moderate post, which led to Inge Ryan asking for the word.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e1135	I fully understand that the president will end the debate when he sees people sitting down on the street here and taking a dart. So I understand that you'd like to finish the debate, and I'll be brief. The representative of Korsberg invited me twice in the case of SV's oil and gas policy, to answer whether we are at all for any project. I repeat what I said: SV has been a party that has been critical of the rapid and too much expansion of the oil and gas fields. But we have voted in favour of a number of projects. The last is the Lofoten-Westerål management plan that we were in here two years ago. We have voted in favour of Mr Lange, and we have also voted in favour of many other projects. But I repeat, we're a party that wants to be led by var. So we want to expand at a slightly less rate than what we've done up until now in Norway, but we're not a completely anti-oil and gas extraction party. We have voted for too many projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e1142	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3137]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e1150	The size then goes to voting on case No. 1-14.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e1158	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Left Proposals No. 2 and 3, by Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 4, by Jan Sahl on behalf of the Christian People's Party The vote will be taken at the next voting time on proposal No. 4, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that no post office is closed but that the number is maintained at the current level. The resulting additional economic costs are assumed to be covered by reduced returns requirements.»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e1185	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party and the Right. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case for State sales in the Post Norge AS.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to lift the concession requirement of Post Norway for the obligation to maintain full banking services.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e1207	There will be a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to terminate the exclusive right of Postens Norge AS in line with Innst. S. No 132 [[2004-2005]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e1237	During the debate Arne Sortevik has presented two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for measures to be implemented by the Government to improve the quality of the cost-measurement of large-scale transport projects and to provide appropriate information to the Government on this work.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The development of a new Kråkerøybru on rv 108 as described in St.prp. No 41 at revised price 615 million. 2008-krona is carried out by state resources and after progress as mentioned in the case. [[2006-2007]] The size requires a State advance on funds to ensure financing from plant start-up in the autumn of 2008 and coverage through the National Transport Plan for 2010-2019.» These proposals and the configuration of the Committee will be replaced by an alternative vote. The Committee had recommended that: The majority agrees that the toll company will be able to change the arrangements for partial toll financing of Rv 108 New Kråker Island connection in the municipality of Fredrikstad. The terms and conditions are specified by St. prp. [[2007-2008]] No 45 and Innst. [[2007-2008]] S. No 211
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e1269	During the debate, Mr Hoksrud has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for amendments to the Professional Transport Act § 37a for the Stortinget. This in order to obtain a permanent arrangement ensuring that persons over 70 years of age, under certain conditions, retain their driving licence for up to one year at a time.’;» The voting boards showed that there were 63 voices against and 38 voices for the proposal from the Progress Party and the Right. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 21.17.07]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e1281	I voted in favour, but should have voted against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e1286	Then there will be 64 votes against and 37 votes in favour of the proposal of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal is therefore not adopted. The Committee had recommended that: The general age limit for driving licences is raised from 70 to 75 years. After the age of 70, an application must be made every year if you still want to keep a driving licence. The application shall be addressed to the police. Each application must be accompanied by a new health certificate in line with the health requirements for driving licences of categories D and DE.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e1304	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Øyvind Halleraker on behalf of the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Proposal No. 2, by Mr Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) 3, from Torstein Rudihagen on The vote will be taken at the next voting time on proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size assumes that ferry services classified as national road ferry services receive public funding from the State budget to ensure the necessary standard and capacity.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e1331	There will be so much talk about proposal No. 1, from the Advance Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the amendment of the classification criteria for ferry services so that ferries which naturally link national road sections are classified as national road ferry services, with effect from the financial year 2009.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e1346	There will be a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked, in the context of the administrative reform, to carry out a comprehensive review of the distribution of responsibilities for the ferry operation while ensuring that the counties/regions are responsible for the current ferry routes in Kragerø and Randsfjorden.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e1352	The Christian People's Party will vote in favour of this proposal when our proposal is down.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e1381	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Jan Sahl on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Amendment No. 2, by Mr Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party, proposal No. 3, from Borghild Tenden on behalf of the Left The vote will be taken at the next voting time on proposal No. Three, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the Government to grant the necessary funds for immediate action on the Oslo network in the context of the 2008 Revised National Budget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e1408	There will be so much talk about proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget of the Government of the Revised National Budget for 2008 is EUR 150 million. crowns on cap. 1350 Railway station entry 23 Operation and maintenance to cover the additional costs of the necessary upgrading of the railway network in the central Oslo area. II At the same time, the Storting asks the Government of the Revised National Budget for 2008 to confirm that the necessary funds for further upgrading in 2009 are provisionally estimated to be approximately approx. 200 million. crowns, will be granted in the ordinary State budget for 2009.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e1429	There will be a vote on proposal No. 1, from Right, Christian People's Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up an immediate railway vulnerability analysis in the Oslo area. Conclusions and remedial actions, in addition to immediate action, are included in a separate action plan incorporated into NTP 2010-2019.»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e1459	During the debate, Mr Dahl presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to: 1st@item: inlistbox Ensure that the Ministry of Justice and the Directorate of Police, in cooperation with the National Agency for Quality of Education and Industry, ensures the quality of instrument training and the requirements of law enforcement, and define public requirements in order to facilitate the establishment of training facilities. [[NOCUTE]] 2nd@item: inlistbox In particular, to assess whether training is satisfactory in terms of lawful and illegal use of power in service, review the training of officers and law enforcement officers patrolling in the public space. The size assumes that representatives of smaller companies are also invited to dialogue on changed training requirements, etc. 3rd@item: inlistbox Develop clear regulations to the Act on the use of power in the performance of duties. The regulation should provide for the means by which sentinels, law enforcement officers and others can be used in service, under which circumstances power can be used and simple reporting procedures to the police in the event of seizure or use of power. 4th@item: inlistbox Prepare and propose a separate dot arrangement for keepers and law enforcement officers and doorkeepers. 5th@item: inlistbox Take the necessary steps to ensure that law enforcement officers and sentinels who commit serious unwanted and criminal acts through police computer systems can be quickly blacklisted in all police districts.6. At the latest in the context of the revised national budget, provide for the establishment of the posts provided for by the Storting in the adoption of the law on watchkeeping activities. 7th@item: inlistbox submit proposals for amendments to the law on watchkeeping with a view to clarifying that a police record may also be required after employment, and that each company is given the opportunity to obtain this by suspecting criminal acts committed by its own employees. Eight. Exploratory proposals to test instrumentators in weight companies in the event of a suspected misuse of drugs in service. 9th@item: inlistbox Introduce a requirement for a national instrument ID card in order to be able to work as an instrument in Norway. The card shall be retractable by the police if it is found to be inappropriate. It is necessary to require a clearly visible registration number plate on the uniform for door guards and weighing instruments in order to be able to state this in the event of a complaint. 10th@item: inlistbox Ensure that the police are obliged to notify the management of a watchkeeping company if one of their employees has committed criminal offences or is under investigation suspected of serious criminal offences.’;» The President has reason to believe that the Christian People's Party and the Left support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e1523	Eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-5, from Elisabeth Aspacer on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right proposals 6, 7 and 9, from André N. Skkelstad on behalf of the Left The President takes note of the fact that proposal No. 8 is identical to proposal No. 5 and will therefore not be taken up by the proposer. The proposal No will first be voted on. 6, 7 and 9 from the left. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government, at the latest in the context of the 2009 State Budget, to increase the admission to the School of Police to at least 550.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an increase in the number of civilian posts in the police and police lawyers by about 10 %. 90 persons per year.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to increase the Police Reserve to 2000 persons.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e1552	The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will vote against proposal No. 9 and support the proposals Nos. 6 and 7, then on proposal No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e1557	Yes, sir. Then we vote first on the proposal No. 6 and 7, then on proposal No. 9
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e1573	We are voting on the proposal No. 1-5, from the Progress Party and the Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that training at Politihøgskola is given a reinforced focus on active outreach, investigation, management and systematic further training for different career paths.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to step up substantially in 2009 the admission to the Police College.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to extend the capacity of police training either by expansion in Oslo and Bodø or by setting up a third police high school in Norway.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for an increase in the number of civilian posts in the police and police lawyers.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals on how the Police Reserve can be further developed and used for new tasks.’ The left has notification that they want to support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e1628	During the debate, Jan Arild Ellingsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate an evaluation of the current management of the resources of unauthorised persons in order to identify any weaknesses in current practice and to develop new guidelines for the safe and sound management of the resources of unauthorised persons.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e1664	There will be a vote on proposals from the representative of the Grandparent Jan Arild Ellingsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right sent from the meeting in Odelstinget on 12 February 2008. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to submit proposals to ensure a greater degree of individual liability when measuring compensation for damages and an assessment of the need to clarify, in legal form, the increased criminality of serious, organised offences.’ During the debate in the Odelstinget, the Christian People's Party and the Left warn that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e1685	The vote will take place on behalf of the Progress Party on proposals made by Jan Arild Ellingsen from the meeting in Odelstinget on 12 February 2008. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to establish procedures and, if necessary, to propose legislative changes to ensure the withdrawal of Norwegian citizenship in cases where it appears that persons who have been granted citizenship have committed war crimes, terror or other serious crime.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e1705	The vote will take place on behalf of the Progress Party from the meeting in Odelstinget on 12 February 2008. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider lowering the threshold for police access to arrest persons for offences in connection with new special criminal law.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e1724	The vote will take place on behalf of the Progress Party from the meeting in Odelstinget on 12 February 2008. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to strengthen respect for the deceased by including in the provision on equalisation in the penal code that the overturning of tombs and the shearing of tombs are treated as equal.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e1743	A vote will be taken on the proposals of Mr André Oktay Dahl on behalf of the Right, submitted from the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 12 February 2008. This proposal has been turned into a transmission proposal and sounds in a modified form: ‘It is recommended that the Government make proposals during 2008 to ensure that hatred crime on the basis of ‘other status’ is protected by the same legal protection as other hate crime.’ The President proposes that this proposal be sent to the Government without a trial. - That's to look at as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e1759	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve on behalf of Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, by Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve on behalf of Right and Left proposal No. 3, from Kåre Fostervold on behalf of the Progress Party The vote will be taken at the next voting time on proposal No. 1, from Right and Christian People's Party. In the course of the debate, this proposal is transformed into a transmission proposal and sounds in a modified form: ‘It is recommended that the Government carry out an overall evaluation of the public instrument for enterprise-related support. Special emphasis is requested on the achievement of results, the criteria for allocation and the adaptation of systems to users. It is further requested that the evaluation should assess whether both the county municipality and Innovation Norway are actors in today’s instrument.’ The President proposes that this proposal be sent to the Government without a motion for a resolution. It's a note. There will be so much talk about proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the scheme of Innovation Norway’s instruments to make them more nationwide and accessible to all applicants.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e1807	There is an alternative proposal, proposal No. 2, from the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:60 [[2007-2008]] The Progress Party has indicated that they wish to support the proposal from the Right and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-2.ana.ud1112e1877	So we're done with today's maps. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
