ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e55	An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Anne Marit Bjørnflaten from 7 March until further notice. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. - It is deemed to have been adopted. From the first and second alternates of the Troms County, Knut Werner Hansen and Synnøve Søndergaard respectively, there are applications to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of the representative Anne Marit Bjørnflaten from 7 March and until further notice, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The third alternate of the county of Troms, Odd Harald Johansen, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e83	Odd Harald Johansen is present and will take the seat. The representative, Odd Einar Dørum, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e88	I am delighted, on behalf of the representative Leif Helge Kongshaug and myself, to make proposals to increase the strategic space for action in Norwegian research and development - R & D.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e93	The representative, Gunvald Ludvigsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e96	On behalf of the representatives of Trine Skei Grande, Odd Einar Dørum, André N. Skkelstad and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a new drug treatment unit.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e101	The representative, Mr Ingreigt S. Sørfonn, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e104	On behalf of the representatives of Laila Davøy, May-Helen Molvær Grimstad, Hans Olav Syversen and myself, I have the pleasure and honour to make a proposal that ideal health and care services companies, under this child protection service, are exempted from the requirement of a public procurement law.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e109	The representative, Anders Anundsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e113	It is a pleasure on behalf of the representatives Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, Åse M. Schmidt, Ib Thomsen and myself to be able to make proposals to transfer control responsibility for the learning environment and indoor climate at the country's primary and secondary schools temporarily to the Labour Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e118	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e131	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 60 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and State Council Tora Aasland 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e142	In many ways it has been a great pleasure to be the case rapporteur for this big message. The quality reform was presented in St.meld. No 27 for 2000-2001 by the then Church, Minister of Education and Research Trond Giske. The aim of the reform was to improve student success with their studies and to improve the quality of Norwegian higher education. There was also an objective of more internationalisation. A new degree system has been introduced, with the bachelor and master degrees, as well as the introduction of a new character system adapted to the rest of Europe. The institutions were to be given more freedom, which was finally clarified by a new common law on higher education, adopted by the Stortinget in February 2005. The reform has been a success in several areas. Although many were very concerned about what the reform would entail and several expressed direct resistance to the quality reform at the time of its introduction in 2003, the sector has implemented the reform in a very good way. They're supposed to be proud of that. This applies to both management, employees and students. In my view, there was a completely necessary reform in the higher education sector, which has evolved from being a training offer for the few to an offer for very many. Quality reform in higher education is a study and governance reform. The elements of the reform shall be built up in line with the objective of improving the quality of education and research. One of the objectives of the reform was that there should be better contact between students and teachers and better guidance from students. The evaluation shows that this has happened. However, there are still challenges in this area, as the students have clearly provided feedback during the hearings. They are still not satisfied with the contents of the guide and point out that learning outcomes are too weak. This is one of the elements of the evaluation that needs to be followed up. While the students are not satisfied with the learning outcomes of the guidance they receive from their teacher, the teachers express that due to the demand for closer student follow-up, they do not have sufficient time for research. It may therefore appear that institutions have an organisational challenge to provide coherent time for both education, guidance and research. A major danger in such a situation is that the professional community is solving its needs for a coherent time for research by reverseping the pedagogical reforms that have taken place. I think that would be regrettable in that case. Because although the students are not quite satisfied with the learning outcomes of their instructional hours, we see that today there are more students conducting their studies in normal time than before the reform, and fewer are ironing out. It's probably related to better guidance and follow-up from teachers, I think. Another obvious consequence of the reform and closer follow-up of the students is that they write much more than before. One of the reformists also expresses it in Stavanger Aftenblad at the end of 2003: ‘The best part of the quality reform is without doubt forcing Norwegian students to write more than before. In my study time, one would like to go one and a half or two years without writing a line. Now the long tasks are written every semester.» I fully agree with that statement, and I am convinced that it has led to higher quality and better student implementation. An area of concern for which the Committee is concerned is the lack of use of external sensors at a lower level. That concern is shared by the business community. The Committee supports the Ministry's plans for the monitoring of the use and extent of external sensors at lower levels at universities and higher education institutions, in view of a legislative amendment that ensures more use of external sensors. The minority in the Committee proposes the assessment of external sensor requirements. A happy development is that we see an increased level of cooperation between educational institutions and business after the reform. This is very positive. The business community shows that they want even more cooperation on the development of the practical part of higher education. This is positive and joyous, and we now see environments where such cooperation has come about. As an example of this, I will mention the University of Buskerud and the Kongsberg environment and the cooperation between the Gjøvik University and the Raufoss environment. These are good examples of how international leaders and educational institutions get synergies by playing at the best of each other. In the committee setting, we have also expressed our desire to develop clearer reporting requirements in this area, so that we can better measure cooperation between universities and colleges and social and business life. This is an important area to develop in terms of innovation and innovation. Another area that becomes important to follow-up in the coming period is the funding system. There has been no lack of feedback that the system is not as many people want. The evaluation of the Quality Reform does not provide a good response to the functioning of the system in line with its intentions, and it is therefore good that the Council of State has signalled that it will launch an evaluation of the funding system in 2009. Then, hopefully, we have had enough time to see what is good and less good about the system introduced by the 2003 reform. What cannot be stressed enough in this context is that the funding system must operate in the same direction as the overall objectives of the sector, where quality in education and research are key elements. Quality reform also has a clear objective of more internationalisation and international cooperation to promote quality in higher education and research in Norway. The exchange of students has increased since the reform was introduced, but there are still challenges for institutions to link student and researcher exchanges through institutional agreements that thus ensure the quality of exchanges. We are looking forward to the National Councils presenting their own keynote on internationalisation in education. It will give us opportunities to go further in this field, which is necessary for Norwegian higher education and research to develop to ensure high international standards. An area that is a challenge even after the quality reform has been introduced is the number of women in academia. In particular, there is a shortage of women in the highest positions. Governments shall be very commendable for their initiatives to improve the situation in this area. Last night, last night, we heard the government council of Tora Aasland promise to designate positions for women who want to bet on an academic career. I think that's great, because we need a good gender balance within the academy. The Committee, all without the representatives of the Progress Party, then also expresses this in its comments. Among other things, the Committee stresses that it is not just gender equality that makes it important to recruit more women for research. Knowledge established through research may be lacking when one gender is as much under-represented as researchers and not least under-represented in higher academic positions. At the end of my speech, I would like to say that the main objectives of the Quality Reform are still important and relevant. They are important to continue to develop higher education and research in Norway. However, the evaluation of the implementation of the quality reform has shown us that we have more major challenges to make our higher education system even better. The evaluations carried out during the implementation itself have given us important knowledge we can use in the future. In this way, the work carried out is an example of follow-up also in other sectors that carry out major reforms. In-flight evaluation is more valuable than ex-post evaluation, I think. Once again, praise to the higher education sector, which has done a great and good job! The minority will promote its own proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e175	The quality reform was undertaken by all higher education institutions in Norway at the start of the study in the autumn of 2003. The changes in the Quality Reform follow from the Bologna process. The establishment of NOCUT and improved quality assurance by educational institutions are also in line with the areas of activity drawn up there. Quality reform aims at improving the quality of education and research, increasing the intensity of education and increasing internationalisation. The Progress Party welcomes the evaluation of quality reform, but it is important to stress that this is an early evaluation, which takes into account the first four years after the reform was introduced. Further evaluation is therefore necessary at a later stage. This evaluation was carried out by Norwegian forces via the Norwegian Research Council. We have pointed out that there would have been an advantage if such an evaluation had also used foreign competence in the evaluation work, and hope that the Council of State will take it to the next crossroads. Otherwise, it must be said that the cuts in the basic appropriations that the Government had through its ceasefire have made the implementation of the reform difficult. One of the objectives of the reform was to give students closer follow-up and more guidance. We have noticed that the student organisations express that the reform has not been followed up on this point. There are now more points of study than before, but there is a cross of thought, as both the cost standard and the conversion system were improved to facilitate full-time studies in the implementation of the reform, that students do not seem to spend more time on the studies now than before, and that they have as much profitable work to do next to them. The student organisations want more of the same medicine - that is, further raising the cost standard in order to realize the full-time student. The most tabloid essays say the students are starving. But it must be allowed to ask whether the students are hungry and thirsty enough to absorb the fruits of knowledge. Society allows them to acquire knowledge, but in what way do they contribute back to society? The Committee has been on a procession for Roma. We noticed that in 476, when Roma were conquered by the barbarians, the Romans had created a state where more and more people had only rights and no duties. Bread and circus were the words of the day for well-being and entertainment. The defence of the borders was largely entrusted to the soldiers of the lessees. Traditional family life went into disintegration, and an increasing proportion of the population had suction pipes to the treasury. It was not the barbarians that became stronger, but the Roman society that rotted from within, in a moral decay that could fully measure itself with what we experience in our own time. People were no longer willing to make the personal sacrifices necessary to maintain the values of the state and civilization. Before it was bread and circus, now there is a demand for time and money. - It was a little bit of a depression. The Progress Party has also noted that the cleanup of titles has led to different degrees of professional weight leading to the same title. We believe that it may cause problems for future employers to assess applicants if the applicant is not made aware of any depression in one or more subjects. We are therefore asking the Ministry to consider whether there is a need for a slightly broader spectrum or a system that makes these differences visible. The sector has shown great creativity in developing new study offers. The Star Island Committee points out that many master degrees in several places in the country hardly have students or graduates. A key prerequisite for a high-quality education is, in the view of the Progress Party, that there is a sound professional loss and a sound number of applicants and graduates. We have noticed that there is no complete national overview of different study facilities available. We see that the government parties point to the website of education.no, but with all due respect this is a very poor, little informative and little user-friendly compilation of data with varying quality. The Party will stress that such an overview must contain quality-assured data and build on a well-structured database of different search options. Such a database could provide information in relation to national dimensioning and provide the basis for any incentive systems for some studies. It will then be possible to monitor the development of study provision over time, which may be an essential element of a decision-making basis, and it can be used as a management tool to increase the ability of the fully trained students to meet the needs of society. The Progress Party therefore supports proposals for the creation of such a database, which we believe could also be of great help to the individual student with regard to the choice of studies. A number of claims have been made that the educational component of the funding system leads to more institutions being examined. This was the theme of the 2005 big election campaign, and not least SV went high on the track with crass criticism that the economy was driving the institutions through to let go of weak students to secure income. In the opinion of the Progress Party, the education component is the most important element of the funding system, and it is unfortunate if questions can be asked whether the system is being exploited. We therefore believe that quality assurance is important in characterisation and that greater external censorship is needed to prevent possible cynical exploitation of the system. We actually expect SV to support this proposal based on what they said in the election campaign. Another important element to take into account in this context is that the quality reform has led students to write and deliver more tasks than before. There is also widespread use of home examinations, among others. due to the lack of suitable examination facilities. Combined with the ripping technological development, we unfortunately see that the "cuts and glues" from the Internet and various publications are spreading. Hidden quoting and plagiarism is an increasing problem. There are currently different editing programmes that students can use to make the drug appear to be self-produced. Nor am I convinced that the vast majority of students have made a clear distinction between information management and knowledge management. As the leader of Norsk Lektorlag, Gro Paulsen, pointed out in a chronicle in Nordlys on May 9, 2007: ‘Paradoxically, it is considered ‘modernisation’ to allow the student to cut substances out of the Internet and render them word by word without ‘around’ about memory.’ These are elements that need to be taken into account in internal quality assurance and are prevented, inter alia. through external censorship. The Progress Party also sees some unfortunate aspects of institutions using a normal distribution of grades. There is no hint that values will follow a gaussian curve. Nor does such a system ensure that the best character of one institution corresponds to the level of knowledge of the best character of another. That is why we are promoting proposals to move towards objective criteria for characterisation. It is very positive, in our view, that it is up to research-based education, but we will stress that it is essential also to ensure a coherent time for research. There is currently no overview of how much time researchers spend on administrative arrangements such as EU applications, etc., and on this basis we are promoting proposals to monitor how much time they spend on administrative work for our researchers. The Progress Party will also point to the needs of the sector in order to re-establish the economic slowdown following the so-called cease-fire of the Government. The step-up plan for scholarship holders was broken and there is a clear need in the sector for several scholarship positions and, in particular, there is a need for an economic uplift in order to resolve the equipment crisis. The evaluation raises the question of whether the Bachelor’s degrees provide students with sufficient training as a basis for a professional career or whether they are designed for further studies. In our view, it is essential that professional Bachelor's programmes should be practical and professional. Practice and skills training, together with education based on research-based knowledge, are important elements. As regards the category placements of the different training courses, we would point out that there are historical cost figures underlying them, together with an assessment of teacher and equipment intensity. We believe that there is a need for a review of the categorisation and therefore propose to ensure that the individual subjects are properly placed. We also note that there has been a desire to introduce economic incentives for voluntary cooperation between educational institutions and businesses. In our view, it is natural that educational institutions cooperate with each other with a common objective of improving the provision of education, and it should be a matter of course that institutions cooperate with industry in both research and general education. We are sceptical about getting too many components of the funding system, but assume that this issue will be dealt with more thoroughly later, as a result of the study of the Star Island Committee. Internationalisation and increased student mobility were a key objective of the reform. We got an increased student exchange to start with, but this is a trend that is now turning around. We've noticed that the number of students abroad has dropped by 11 pst. in the last three or four years. A major reason for this is, in our opinion, the study funding and the lack of funding for the ‘freshman year’ and the first year’s study in a four-year Bachelor’s degree. This has been pointed out earlier by the Progress Party, and at the time of the budgetary procedure at the latest, we have proposed to correct this imbalance, which the Government parties voted against. It is important that educational institutions are able to take in researchers from abroad and that they have the opportunity to send Norwegian researchers out internationally. We believe that the Government has neglected in this area and through its policy has contributed to worsening the situation. We have noticed that the government has also announced in this area that they will deliver a message. But we expect something more than words, we expect practical action and financial resources to realise the measures. With this, I would like to address the proposals that the Progress Party is promoting together with the other opposition parties, and the proposals that the Progress Party is promoting alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e220	The representative, Jon Hunter Gåssvatn, has addressed the proposals No. 1-6, which is included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e223	First, I would like to thank the rapporteur for a thorough job with a big message and a theme that I think we are not completely finished with. There will be many issues of higher education for the Storting during this year, and the Committee is pleased to address them. The need for change in the higher education sector is high and has been high for many years. There might be reason to draw out some of the elements that make the need for conversion so big. First of all, we've gone from having so-called elite institutions to having mass and breadth institutions. While it was approx. 50,000 students in higher education in the 1970s, we have today passed 200,000. We know that students are more untraditional than before, in the sense that they come through different ways and perhaps at different times of life than they did before. The OECD has made calculations that now we're going to educate ourselves three times in life, not just once. We know that especially for those students who have children, or the students who start to study late, quality reform is a major challenge, precisely because it streamlines the structure quite much more than before. We know that public spending is going down, not up, and internationalisation is becoming an ever-increasing challenge. At the same time, society is making greater demands on relevance and change. It is precisely in this context that the quality reform was introduced, and it is in this context that it is also being evaluated and further developed. The main objectives of the Quality Reform were better study quality and throughput, and the instruments included: closer follow-up of the students. For the time being, the reform has worked for a short time, so, of course, we agree with the researchers that it is too early to draw any clear conclusions on what has been achieved by the reform's objectives. Nevertheless, we have seen some trends. The students score several points of study, and the iron percentage has fallen. Students get closer follow-up, but the follow-up is of slightly different quality. Unfortunately, students do not spend so much more time on the studies, and the quality of their teaching has been varying. At the same time, we know that the old and the new degrees are of different quality, we know that there's become less coherent time for research, and that maybe especially the Bachelor's degree is a challenge, because it's not completely on its own. Of course, we welcome the big messages that have been announced, both the one on research recruitment and the one on internationalisation, while at the same time the quality reform - and perhaps especially the core of the quality reform, with closer follow-up and better study quality - is under strong pressure because the government has chosen to cut as much as it has done in the allocations to universities and colleges. It affects the quality very much. Just at the University of Oslo, you're going to cut 205 million for 2008. kr. It's completely impossible to imagine that 205 million. kr i cut will not go beyond study quality. Several actors have criticised the fact that external sensor is no longer required in the bachelor programme exams. We think it's time to do something about it, and we therefore want to assess whether not to reintroduce that requirement in all the bachelor programmes. We also believe it is important to follow up on what scientists say about continuous time for research. The fact that many institutions are now starting to solve the problem by changing the academic year and by organizing themselves in other ways is no reason not to look at what seems to be a major problem for the sector. We are positive that the Government announces a review of the funding system in the sector. Like several speakers, the Right is concerned that there shouldn't be too many components of that system, but I think there's some reason to consider whether there's no room for anything more, just because we can actively use the funding system to advance the goals we want to achieve in the sector. We have been critical that the evaluation will not be carried out until 2009. On the contrary, the Right considers that there is every reason to start the evaluation as quickly as possible, simply because it can also be seen in connection with the ongoing work of the Government now has with the Star Island Committee report. To add a comment to the Stjernø Committee at the end - because you can't see it detached from what we're discussing today: I think it's important to signal that the university and higher education sector now needs to concentrate on ensuring the quality of higher education, and not being thrown into a long and controversial debate on structure and on which institutions should belong together.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e253	Ensuring equal rights and equal opportunities for higher education is incredibly important for SV. Providing students with research-based education and ensuring that employees have the opportunity to have time for coherent research is one of the things we want to give priority to. Higher education has gone from being a training for the few privileged to become a mass education. As the representative before I was in, we now have over 200,000 students. This is the right way to go. The quality reform, which we are discussing today, we have had an evaluation of, and which has been both a study reform and a governance reform, has been an important reform. It is important and necessary that we have an en route evaluation that is now in order to adjust the course, in order to see where we have succeeded, and where we need to make adjustments. Our universities are meaningful in our knowledge society. They are symbols of the open debate. It's from here that we, both as politicians and as people in society, are taking our knowledge to make our decisions. They're our experts. The Tora Aasland Council yesterday called for the designation of female professorates. This is an important step to go on the road. It is important to ensure that there is an increase in the proportion of women in academia. Today is 60 pst. of the students women, while there are 17 pst. female professors. It is still the case that there are differences as to who takes higher education and that it is related to what kind of home you come from. Our committee was just visiting Italy, where we in Florence met a number of students. One of these students told me about a friend who had become pregnant. When she got pregnant, the professor said, "You've made your choice! The girl had to stop. Therefore, it is necessary and important to focus on student funding in order to be equal to the right and equal opportunity to study. SV has been engaged in increasing the development of student housing. This year, over twice as many student homes as in 2005, the year the Right-Registration went off. This government has built kindergartens that never before--among other things. because it is important that women also have the opportunity to take education. A good funding for studies is to ensure equal opportunities and equal rights to education. Many challenges have been addressed in the quality reform evaluation. Among other things, it indicates an increased flow of students, and that students have received a closer follow-up. But we also know that not everyone is satisfied with the follow-up they have received. It's of varying quality. We've had less disqualification in higher education. It is important that, in the future, we focus on the disabled students, that they get even better, and that it is easier for them to take higher education. We have to keep looking at how we can get the Bachelor's degree to stand on our own. It is important that institutions take responsibility for making visible that the Bachelor’s degree is also a separate degree that can lead to work and not only to further studies. Internationalisation is an important part of the reform. It is an objective that more people take relevant partial training abroad and it is important that universities focus on international contact. I am very pleased that the Council of State has announced its own big message on internationalisation. Studies show that the majority of employees spend more time on teaching, but almost no one spends more time on research. Researchers point out that it will be an important task in the future to ensure that staff research conditions are safeguarded and improved, without weakening the positive trends in education. This takes the Government seriously, and I expect the research team to be launched even more in detail in the announced paper on research recruitment. SV is pleased that the Government emphasises the benefits of democratic and collegial governance. It is necessary to continue the democratic and collegial governance model that we have had at the national universities and colleges. In this way, we perceive the government's signals and the mention of democratic and collegial bodies as very positive. Finally, I want to take the opportunity to praise Steinar Starø and his selection for a very interesting analysis of the funding system. The issues identified by the sample should be central to the Government’s informed evaluation of the funding system in 2009. It is important to raise a debate on the impact of the funding system on professionalism, and - if you see negative consequences - to adjust it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e293	As has been said earlier today, this is a status report, and it naturally bears the mark of it. It is difficult to come up with the bombastic conclusions and a judgment on quality reform at such an early stage. The evaluation researchers have also underlined that there are several reasons to be cautious about drawing conclusions from their findings, since the reform has been functioning for such a short time. It has been difficult to fully capture the impact of institutions' own adjustments on the basis of the initial experience of the reform. Not all local solutions have found their final form. Many results will not be visible until longer. In addition, ‘sleep cut’ has probably not been a help in its implementation, in a slightly more southerly way. However, I believe that a status report at such an early stage is important. It provides an opportunity to see whether there is a need to make some adjustments so that the reform can achieve its ambitious objectives. Quality reform is intended to be both a study reform and a governance reform. Institutions have been given greater freedom, the degree structure has been changed, students have received a closer follow-up, and quality assurance systems have been put in place. These objectives remain firm and are still equally important and relevant. At the same time, the status report shows that there are some remaining challenges. A number of actors, including: in business, have criticised the fact that external sensor is no longer required in the bachelor programme. I think it's a criticism we should listen to. I believe that external sensor requirements could increase the status and, not least, strengthen the quality assurance of the exam and increase the credibility of the assessment of the training. The quality reform is intended to provide a closer follow-up of the students. At the same time, it is important that this does not affect the research of professionals, as it now appears to be done according to the professional staff themselves. Research is a very important part of the work of professionals also in view of the follow-up and teaching they will receive from students. The government must therefore closely monitor the timing of R & D activities by the institutions and see whether action needs to be taken. In the setting, the Christian People's Party has given particular attention to the student's situation in the Quality Reform. The notification has not clarified how the increased requirement for mandatory attendance, compulsory submissions and multiple examinations is being applied to students with children. Students with children face specific challenges, including: requirement for mandatory attendance. In particular, this applies when a child is ill for a shorter period of time. It will not be natural, for example. to obtain a medical certificate in the case of a disease requiring one-two-day absence. A few weeks ago, we discussed a proposal in Stortinget about just students and pregnancy. Then it was agreed - and it is Christian People's Party pleased - that the Government must carry out a comprehensive review of the different regulations for students who have children in their studies, and look at how these can function optimally and in harmony with each other. I believe it would be natural for different issues related to the precisely quality reform to be included in this review. This will also help to get more women into the studies and to complete the studies and get more women into higher positions, and I want to cheer up at the Council of State to get her to do it. Most students are reasonably satisfied with life and address the many challenges that come with it - but not all. It is known that the incidence of psychiatric disorders is higher among students than in the general population. The study of health and well-being from the Student Society in Trondheim shows that one in five Trondheim students are in the high-risk zone for the development of anxiety disorders. The Student Living Conditions Survey of the Central Statistical Office shows that one in four students in Norway is depressed about their own situation. It is difficult to find a clear reason for this. However, I believe that some of the common features of student life, such as lack of social rights and security, performance pressures and poor finances, may be reasons behind this. These factors have always been there, but there may be reason to follow the strengthening of quality reform, and whether this may have an impact on students’ mental health. Internationalisation is an important topic, and we will come back to that. In the end, I just want to give a little message of concern to this status report: we see that the institutions have become better at investing in part-time studies outside, where a person takes part of his study abroad. At the same time, we see that the proportion of students who spend their entire study time out has decreased dramatically. This is a message of concern that the Christian People's Party wants to contribute to this epiphany.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e314	I would like to begin by commending the case rapporteur, who has done a great job and a good job, and has far in the way got to a committee. There is a comprehensive committee that is pleased that the Government is presenting a big message with a background in evaluating the implementation of the Quality Reform in Higher Education. At the same time, we know that the reform has worked for a short time, and that many of the processes are difficult to change. This is also emphasised by the evaluation researchers. They stress that there are several reasons to be careful to draw clear and bastant conclusions. Many results will not be visible until longer. In addition, there are some local solutions that have not yet received their final form. That's fair. However, evaluation is useful. Since the introduction of the Quality Reform in 2003, the evaluation shows that major changes have occurred in the university and higher education sectors. There is reason to praise the sector for the way in which quality reform has been implemented. The premises underpinning the Quality Reform remain valid and the main objectives of the Quality Reform remain important and relevant. There is reason to maintain these as a basis for further work on developing Norwegian higher education. Quality reform is both a study reform and a governance reform, where the elements of the reform will build up under the objective of increasing quality in higher education and research. In view of the study reform component, better contact between lecturers and students and better guidance in student studies was one of the objectives. Nevertheless, students do not always experience the content of instruction and instruction as satisfactory, despite the fact that teachers spend more time on teaching and guidance, and there are, on average, several points of study per study. student than before the Quality Reform. On the other hand, teachers say they don't have enough time for research. This is clearly one of the areas where there is room for improvement. It is reassuring to know that the department is following this closely. With the Quality Reform, institutions were given autonomy to set up new study offers. It has led to the creation of a large number of Bachelor's programmes containing many new topics. It is important that institutions review their own academic portfolio in view of their professional profile. It is also important to take account of regional and national needs. In the case of external sensors, there are several actors, including: in business, which has criticised the fact that this is no longer required by examinations in the Bachelor's programme. I'm very happy that this is being followed up by the department, and I think it's important that we get external sensors. Cooperation with industry is important, and business also shows that it wants more cooperation on the development of higher education practice. That's completely understandable. I think it's nice that the committee in the setting mentions the good cooperation between the University of Gjøvik and the Raufoss environment. That's absolutely right. In addition, I would like to mention that the engineering college at Jørstadmoen also has close cooperation with the University of Gjøvik, among others. on a master’s degree in information security. So here's the good effects both ways. A little about equality: In 2005, there were 17 pst. by the professors of women. It is therefore important to continue targeted work to increase the proportion of women. It is good that the Council of State is aware of this and is committed to earmarking in special areas. For my own account I have to say that over the years I have become more aware of this with gender balance in different contexts. Equality doesn't go away -- it might have to be a few years to discover. It should also be emphasised that gender equality is not the only reason why more women need to be recruited for research. Reality is also that the knowledge established through research can become incomplete when one's sex is as much underrepresented as researchers. The Council of State has said that it will be submitted to the evaluation of the funding system in 2009. That's very good. There is reason to stress that the funding system is an essential management tool and that the system must move in the same direction as the overall objectives of the sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e337	There is no doubt about what was the driving force behind the quality reform, of which we are currently dealing with the first stage. First, it was what others here have also described, namely that we in Norway have come into a situation where taking higher education has become so common that it covers more than half of the birth quotas we have had for some years, and secondly, the challenges that Norway has met through the processes that we can describe as developments in Europe and in the EU, through the Bologna process and the Lisbon process. That being said, there are some rather important things that are mentioned. One is that the purpose of the reform was that in a situation where more and more students take higher education, students should be guaranteed a closer follow-up as students instructive. In this context, I believe that, just as we have begun to look at the prerequisites of teachers to be good teachers in primary education, we should also be concerned about it in higher education. We've long been concerned about what's going on for good researchers to be good researchers, but it's absolutely necessary to be involved, including in higher education, what's going on for a teacher to be good at this. It is a quality issue in the context of further work that at least the Left wants to mention. I think that the awareness that we've had about the challenges and what's going on to strengthen the teachers in basic education is also something we can include in higher education. The second question that the committee has said is that once we have got the reform we've got, and we know that there's a lot of work on it, and we know that students have gotten a lot better than before, it's also important in themselves to find out if you're learning more than before. One of my acquaintances, who is a professor at the University of Oslo, says this: My students aren't going to have 1,000 pages, they're going to have 4,000 pages, and when they're working on 4,000 pages, they're going to have the requirement that I work with them. His experience is that it means a lot -- it depends on what you get. So it's also that it doesn't help what you get with you, if you don't make sure there's enough money to fund the system we have. As other speakers have also pointed out, the Left shares the concern that lies in the cuts in the basic appropriations of universities and colleges. In the context of government budgets, there are exchange payments, but there are potentially no exchange payments. And when I myself on my hikes through the city, life and country have been present at all meetings of medicine where you discuss what to cut, either in parts of a basic research or in quality education, for example. by general practitioners -- they're going to be -- and they say at the meeting that we're not going to cut what makes a general candidate get a worse starting point for meeting people, we see why this is related to other conditions in our country. We realize that the heads that are gone, they're propagating, and they're noticed, and a lot of people are starting to tell us about it. So once again, the left will just mark that we want that money to be there. And then there's another theme that we've been joined by the opposition in the committee, but oddly not by the government parties -- oddly enough. That's the question that Jon Hunter Gåsvatn reflected on: what do we do with the generalisation of higher education according to the Bologna process? What do we get in ex.phil., ex.fac., Bachelor's degrees and Master's degrees of what can be described in this way in popular Norwegian: where you are not a specialist, at least you are bold enough to challenge an authority until he answers you so normally, with Norwegian main sentences, that it becomes clear what he stands for. And they're the fact that where you're good yourself, you're humble that you should always be able to learn something more. What do we do to safeguard this perspective? The Committee was a few years ago on a study trip to the east coast of the United States and was made acquainted with the American education system, which is not similar to the European one, but which at least has a heavy tradition in what is called liberal arts education in English and which operates with today's core curriculum, the nuclear curriculum in general. In connection with what Mr. Gåsvatn said, which had rightly brought with him the fall of the Roman Empire, I am concerned about what is building society. What builds societies is what enables citizens not to stand up to anyone, but that makes them knowledge-seeking and curious and bold enough to say that they are to govern society, that it is the citizens who own the state, and not the citizens who are to be empowered by the state power. Ultimately, this is an important challenge for universities and colleges. The left supports what has been said in the settings on the use of external sensors, and we have been actively involved in proposing that, in the context of the setting up of the Starø Committee, the work to be done with funding should be able to put in place a component that rewards cooperation. Just like the representative Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide, I also think that universities and colleges are now going to focus on quality, and not on how to redeploy the Norway map. It is a kind advice from the Left to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e354	First, I would like to thank the Committee for a constructive attitude. The recognition that higher education is a mass education may be the main starting point for understanding and improving the quality reform. In 1960, there were about 10,000 students in higher education. Today, as several of the representatives have been involved, there are about 200,000. Changes related to the educational situation of students have therefore been a key theme in our summary of the status of quality reform. Education policy shall provide everyone with the opportunity to make the best possible use of their skills. In order to ensure equal rights to education today, it is necessary to follow the students more closely. A new degree structure has provided courses of study where subjects are based more on each other. New forms of teaching and assessment ensure closer follow-up through the studies. It is still important to follow the student's learning outcomes. It is then necessary to continue the good pedagogical work documented in the quality reform evaluation. Educational development must be promoted at all levels of universities and higher education. Quality reform is also a governance reform. Issues related to the autonomy of institutions, self-government, are therefore another main theme of the Quality Reform Status Report. Self-reliant and professionally strong institutions are important in promoting Norwegian research and strengthening Norway as a knowledge nation. Universities and higher education institutions themselves have the primary responsibility for the study offer and have been given extended powers in the economic, professional and organisational fields. Thus, the educational institutions are given a great responsibility and have professional freedoms. Institutions in the sector have been operating within this framework for a relatively short time. There is reason to believe that both authorities and institutions will continue to gain experience and develop the exercise of these roles. Summary of the quality reform status has been achieved at a relatively early stage. Therefore, no clear answers have been given to all the different aspects of the Quality Reform. A number of findings in the evaluation provide a basis for optimism, especially in relation to the study reform. In the further work on the Quality Reform, I see four main challenges, related to the funding system, at a continuous time for research, for the possibilities of realising the full-time student and for internationalisation. The financial system shall contribute to the achievement of the reform’s objectives of improving the quality of education and research. It shall promote study implementation and stimulate scientific production. The financial system is one of many governance instruments and it is important that the system operates in the same direction as the overall objectives of the sector. I will therefore launch an evaluation of the funding system in 2009 to ensure this. I have noticed views that the current funding system does not stimulate cooperation. This view will be very important to me in the further work. There has been a very clear feedback from the sector that the implementation of the Quality Reform has challenged staff’s ability to devote continuous time to research. Some of these may be due to transitional problems associated with the introduction of the reform. However, raising the quality of both research and education requires a satisfactory framework for research. The third challenge is linked to the full-time student. The new support scheme with increased amounts of support and grants for completed education should facilitate full-time study by students. The Government therefore, in line with the Soria Moria Declaration, has price-adjusted loans and grants in the annual budgets. However, the new support scheme must also be seen in the context of other measures in the quality reform, such as closer follow-up of students and new forms of education and assessment. Together, this should make it possible to study full-time for the students who want it. However, I see that the students do not study more than before, but they may study in a different way, and they do more points of study than before the Quality Reform was introduced. Also in the field of internationalisation are the remaining challenges that I would like to address in the communication that has just been announced. Finally, I would like to stress that universities and colleges have made a formidable effort to implement and implement the reform. New courses of study and assessment are conducted within the framework of a new degree structure. It is a far-reaching and demanding new arrangement. The main objectives remain important and relevant. The government will stick to these as a basis for further work. I note with satisfaction that the Committee shares this view.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e389	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e392	An important element of the Quality Reform was the increased exchange of students between Norway and the rest of the world. Unfortunately, the proportion of students taking entire degrees abroad is falling. Today's Newspaper says political adviser in the Ministry of Knowledge, Kyrre Lekve, among others. this: ‘The decline in foreign students is modest and most of the decline is due to fewer full-time students in Australia. This is not a problem because many of the studies did not meet the quality requirements of Norway. There was a little too much "beach university," says Lekve. Does the Council of State share the ban on a serious problem by its political adviser in relation to the objectives of the Quality Reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e402	I share the representative's concern that there is a decrease in the number of students who want to study abroad. But I would also like to point out that it is important that the training offered abroad is of good quality. We are going to work actively on this in connection with the internationalisation message that is being announced, and then also in interaction with different countries try to make good agreements that can just guarantee quality. That there are some students who may have other motives in addition to the purely academic ones, I shouldn't have said anything about this, but at least I want to make sure that the quality of the study offers abroad is guaranteed, and that we get more students both with the whole and part of the study abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e409	When the quality reform was introduced under the previous government, the government proposed, and received support from the majority of the population, that the reform should be fully financed in line with the sector’s own calculations. Those calculations were in the heads-- if you could say that-- 1,144 million. kr. That was what the sector thought was necessary. Now the quality reform is no longer fully funded, and the large cut that came to universities and colleges of nearly 275 million. The 2007 budget has begun to show itself and has had dramatic consequences around the institutions. Every day, we get reports on cutbacks in study provision and cutbacks - cutbacks in all those things that represent the core of the Quality Reform. My question is then: how can the government expect the same activity, the same quality of institutions, when you cut so much in the appropriations, and not least when you fail to meet the commitments to reintroduce the money into the 2008 budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e416	I am aware of the concern and expectations of the institutions. However, I would point out that there has been a financial growth in the budgets of higher education institutions, although expectations have been higher. It has also contributed, for example: scholarships, which contribute to ensuring good research efforts in institutions. However, I would like to stress the autonomy of the institutions themselves, their own responsibility for making the necessary priorities within the framework they always have. Then I'll do mine to make the frames good. However, it is the responsibility of institutions to make internal priorities regarding any changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e423	Let me just first underline -- having attended the University of Agder's job to become a university -- that it's more important to think about quality than drawing maps. Let it be my advice in connection with the setting of the Star Island Committee. We have heard that the business community has been worried about this that the external sensor has gone away. We have also heard that the representatives of the government parties in this Chamber have expressed concern today. What is the attitude of the Council of State towards using external sensors? Will there be any government council that will include? And would it be in the government's interest for a proposal to introduce external sensor requirements to be voted down today?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e430	It is notable, as the government parties in the committee have also noted, that I and the department will look at the external sensor system at a lower level - that is what this is about here. We'd like to get an overview of this before we get to the point where we might be able to make a decision in relation to it. We need an overview of both the opportunity, the needs and the impact, and I promise that I will contribute to that. So if it can be enough to possibly draw a proposal, that's positive. But in any case, we are going to go into that matter and consider this in more detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e435	Higher education in Norway does not have tuition fees or school fees. There are many countries around us that have it. What can happen, and that disturbs the Left, if the basic appropriations are cut, if it continues to reproduce as it does and is not corrected, is that one can suddenly get into the special situation that there is a red-green government that introduces a strong, not wild, yet practically made possible application for higher education school money in Norway. I guess the Council of State doesn't think it would be a nice aftertaste to be a contributor to such a development. When I raise this issue, it's because I didn't think it would be possible to do it. But when I see the effect of this cut, based on educational trips in Norway in Norwegian institutions, I ask the Council of State: does the Council of State see the seriousness of not correcting the cut in basic appropriations compared to the risk of obtaining higher education tuition in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e442	I think I can assure - for pretty safe reasons - that school money in that kind of education will not be relevant to this government. Then we'll do our best to put in place the good framework conditions that we know the sector has expectations. However, I would like to make it clear that, in the context of the precisely quality reform, there is a teaching component that has given a certain count, and we have summed it up: from 2003 to 2008, the institutions have actually received 701 million through this teaching component. kr in new money. And it's thanks to good work in the institutions, thanks to their implementation of the reform and their counting, and hopefully something thanks to a good combination of the education perspective and the professional perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e447	As the Council of State has so far done, the quality reform has led to a high degree of autonomy for institutions and to their having autonomous and accountable governments. Steinar Stjernø has stated that politics has abddied, and the option he actually points to is more political detail management. Does the Council of State share Starø's view, or is the Council of State satisfied that the sector has a high degree of autonomy, and that overall governance, together with a funding system that rewards production, is essential to achieving the desired quality, diversity and flexibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e454	I think I have both the government parties and the other parties in the committee -- as I have seen -- with me when we say that the main features of the quality reform are. I would then like to emphasise precisely the autonomy, precisely the freedom that the institutions have. What the Star Island Committee has pointed out is that sometimes more political governance is lacking. I'm not going to take the initiative to go back to political detail management, but that there may be some overall perspectives that may be more subject to political governance in interactions between government and corruption, I don't ignore. But that's what we'll come back when we've decided to follow up on the Star Island Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e462	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e465	«When the students in the 1970s demonstrated in front of Bjartmar Gjerde's government building office, the emphasis of education policy on economic growth was against which they protested. When the students in the 1990s went up the same route and screamed, as they did, year after year, that the ‘Hermen must be removed’, yes, that was the financing of their own studies of their rage.’ This is how Alfred Oftedal Telhaug portrays the ‘Students and the inner life’. When student organisations are mobilizing for demonstrations today, the goal has not changed, the greatest difference is the number of demonstrating students. A study from Norfakta was published at the end of February. It turns out that 78 pst. of the students never participate in student policy activities. In the address.no 26 February, the manager, Kristine Skogsrud Nesvik, of Stavanger student organisations, commented on this: ‘Many have less time to keep track of everything happening on campus. Another explanation might be that students have it a little too well." The quality reform was and is still the student reform. It entered into force in 2003. An important part of the reform is the idea of the full-time student. The then Minister of Education Kristin Klemet did not follow that idea. In the Nettavisen on 11 February, she took part in the responsibility for the financial situation of the students: “It was a big problem that we did not adjust the support of the Loan Fund in the years when I was Minister of Education.” The students became poorer and poorer between 2001 and 2005. Loans and scholarships were not indexed, and housing prices fluctuated. The main assumption for Education Norway is equal to the right to education. Everyone shall have the opportunity to take tertiary education, irrespective of economic or social conditions. That's why we've adjusted the price of loans and scholarships, unlike the Bondevik II government. In spite of this, the state loan fund has not increased by more than NOK 3000 to NOK 83 000 in the last five years. The State Institute of Consumer Research has found that students need, on average, nearly NOK 12 000 per month to cover living costs, housing costs and disaggregation. We believe that the level of education aid should be discussed on an ongoing basis. The support from the Loan Fund is closely linked to the construction of several student homes. The rental price for a cable in the private rental market in the largest cities strongly intervenes in the student's money book. Many people seem to have to spend the afternoons and weekends on part-time jobs. It's not a happy development. Higher amounts of aid and the conversion scheme have not resulted in more students studying full-time. We are pleased that we now have a status on the Quality Reform. In many areas, quality reform has been successful, and in some areas, challenges remain. Universities and colleges have done a good job of implementing the reform. The daily lives of both employees and students are marked by new opportunities. At the same time, we see that the guidance of the students is weakened when the continuous time for research by the professional staff is put under pressure. Universities and colleges have been given increased freedom, the degree structure has been changed, students have been given closer follow-up, and quality assurance systems have been put in place. The main objectives of the reform remain important and relevant and must be pursued. Further work needs to focus more on quality and content in both education and research. ‘A wide range of circumstances had weakened students’ participation in institutions’ own democratically elected bodies. Studies carried out also did not tell us about major study materials and work efforts.’ This is how Oftedal Telhaug continues his description of students in the 1990s. Today, students' democratic participation is great. The students have representatives in the boards of higher education and higher education, and in the Board of Universities and Higher Education. Students today have a majority in student relations, which act as independent entities with financial support granted by the Stortinget. The priorities are entirely the responsibility of the boards. The year-on-year survey of students for 2005 shows that while students are studying, they have consistently lower mental health than the rest of the population, but this is not a persistent problem. We need to take on seriously the study and continue to work to establish satisfactory arrangements for the students. Students who have children in their studies, and students with children, have challenges that we have previously dealt with here in the Chamber as a representative proposal from the Christian People's Party. We insist that there is a need for a comprehensive review of the different legislation covering students who have children and that there should be common standards for educational institutions when adapting in the context of birth.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e504	Norway shall be a knowledge nation. The backbone of the Quality Reform is that knowledge should be the central element in the further development of Norwegian social and business life and thus also provide the basis for our future well-being. It has been a short time since the introduction of the Quality Reform. On the right, the researchers who have evaluated the reform agree that it is not yet possible to draw any brilliant conclusions as to whether the reform has achieved its objective of raising the quality of Norwegian education and research. In the right, we therefore look forward with excitement to the announcements about, among other things, the staging messages. recruitment and internationalisation. Quality reform is both a study and a governance reform, as several have said, and it appears to have had an effect where measures have been prescribed with sufficient strength. More is being studied per year. student. It's being published more. But this happens without one being closer to the full-time student, or that the researchers are satisfied with the continuous time for research, which has been spent by many people. This also tells us that indicators and driving forces that are decided upon for use have a strong impact on the direction and adaptation of the sector. It is simply complicated to create incentives for a whole sector that are both fair, drive it forward in the direction that society wants, and at the same time include all the elements that you want to focus on, without the system becoming too complicated. There are some aspects of the system that I would like to comment on in particular. Several have been involved in the funding system, and it becomes very central. This is what sets the framework for how the whole sector adapts. The government announced an evaluation of the funding system during 2009. This is what the Right Government believes should start up already in the current year. I am a little surprised that all the institutions today are running in the same direction. The entire higher education system seems to believe that there is a university status that is the future for them. We see little that we are concerned about developing our own distinctive character and trying to build competitiveness on that basis. This helps to reduce diversity and the strength of having a good range of study services. We are in the Right Adversaries of this, and I don't think Norway is worthy of development either. I hope the Council of State is looking particularly at the challenges associated with the Star Island Committee and what is coming. We need to focus strongly on the development of cooperation with industry, the labour market and society around us. There we see some very good examples of how this can be done in practice, including in the United Kingdom. in Kongsberg and Gjøvik. However, I also note that the report states that ‘there is often a discrepancy between education provision and local business structure’. In addition, ‘lack of incentives in the funding system, lack of time and lack of administrative support are reported as barriers to cooperation’. I would therefore like to point out once again: a funding system is very central to shaping the strategies of the individual institution, there are strong driving forces, and there is an urgent need to review them. Norway is a small country in a large and open world. We may be one of the countries in the world that benefit most from openness and globalisation. This requires a focus towards the world. I myself have education from abroad and am very concerned that the number of students abroad has fallen by 11 pst. the last three or four years. Knowledge is international. Cultural understanding and exchange have a intrinsic value. There is an aspect of education here that everyone in the committee has become quite aware of. Here, policies must be liberal in order to ensure that the exchange is active. It is therefore urgent to review the internationalisation of higher education in Norway. I noticed that the Council of State did not want to address the political detailed management of the institutions. I very much agree with that. But then I also have to comment a little on this with women and challenges in research in the university and higher education sectors. We very much agree that there is a big challenge there, but we may not fully agree with the medicine that is prescribed. There are some underlying trends and challenges here that may need to be addressed in order to find a solution to the problem, and earmarking is necessarily not. Quality reform has given individual institutions the freedom and autonomy required. This implies greater responsibility for the governance and management of the institutions. That's what we need to keep in focus, so that governance and management actually get the right control signals to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e525	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e528	Equally right, but also equal opportunities for higher education are central to SV. It's very gratifying to hear the Minister's historical reluctance. So in 1960 there were 10,000 students, and today there are about 200,000. It shows that we're on the right track. There are more people today who are given the opportunity to take higher education. Among other things, the principle of free is referred to in St.meld. No 16 for 2006-2007, important. And it's very gratifying to hear that our minister confirms this, as opposed to former Minister of Education Clemet, who sowed doubts. Nevertheless, in my article I want to focus on an area that has more people in it, but that is very, very important. In 2005 it was only 17 p.m. by the professors of women. It's very worrying that the women's share in top positions in the academy is so low. More and more of the students are female students, and it is very important that these have good role models among their own gender. I want to commend the Minister for earmarking top positions for women. It's a very necessary measure--I would have almost said-- unfortunately. I also share the Minister's view that we must start with the areas where the women's share is lowest, among other things. the real subjects. But we can't stop here. It is important to continue targeted work to increase the proportion of women. Inclusion Committee - Women in research have pointed to a number of other measures that can improve the situation in the long term. It is important to follow up on these measures as well. SV will commend the government’s establishment of a 2 million university, university and research institute equality prize. kr. It can help to raise awareness of the theme and the willingness to actively do something to improve equality within the academy. SV, like the Committee and the rapporteur, would stress that there are not only gender equality reasons that make it important to recruit more women, especially in research. Knowledge established through research will be lacking when one's gender is as much underrepresented as researchers. We need both sexes. Universities and colleges are granted great freedom, both economically, professionally and organisationally. Freedom comes with responsibility. It is therefore important that our higher education institutions take gender equality seriously and give priority to recruitment, the aim of which must be to increase the proportion of women in academia.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e545	I think the debate today shows that we agree on a great deal with the progress report on the implementation of the quality reform in higher education, although there are, of course, differences of opinion. But the very intention of the reform seems to me to have broad support, and that is good. One of the areas in which the Committee has fully agreed, and shared the concerns, concerns about the lack of external sensor use at a lower level, i.e. the Bachelor's degree. In the Communication, the Council of State also says that she wants to monitor the use and extent of external sensors at a lower level in the university and higher education sectors, in view of a legislative change that ensures more use of external sensors to a lower degree. The minority makes proposals asking the Government to consider introducing requirements for external sensors for all higher education. I think that at this point we agree that I would have wanted the minority to send over their proposal. I don't understand what's going on. I would therefore like to say that the parties to the Government will vote in favour of proposal No. 1 from the minority, so that a total increase is behind the council of state in her work in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e554	First, I would like to commend the government parties for supporting the proposal that we in the Committee agree on when it comes to the use of external sensors. I think it is a problem that needs to be addressed quite quickly, simply because many, not only at the institutions but also outside the institutions, see it as a problem that you cannot fully assess the quality of the examinations that are being conducted. Finally, in the debate, I would like to link some comments to a topic that has been up on a few occasions. This concerns in particular the autonomy of the institutions and the link between autonomy and the economy. I fully agree that the institutions have an autonomy that they must use for the benefit of the institution, the students and for education. But it's like you don't have an economy, it doesn't help to have autonomy. If the institutions repeatedly experience that they either get a big cut or not get the money they have been promised, they finally have no choice but to cut big at the institutions. I think, for example, not that the University of Oslo wants to cut 205 million. kr in 2008. They don't do it because they abuse their autonomy, rather on the contrary -- they do it because they have to. Yes, the institutions have autonomy, and they have a great responsibility. At the same time, state authorities must facilitate the use of autonomy in a way that provides for students and employees. So a comment on the students' economic situation and the statement that the representative Ljunggren referred to with former Minister of Education Kristin Klemet. It is absolutely right that we made a clear economic priority when the quality reform was to be introduced. We prioritised full funding for the quality reform rather than better student welfare - then. We were clear on that all the way. We did that for one simple reason: if the quality reform could be introduced, and if it could work, we were dependent on large conversion funds in the sector. So it was after former Minister of Education Trond Giske had not put in one red ear to the implementation of the reform. He believed that the reform could be carried out almost free of charge. So along with the bulk of the population, we put the money into the sector we thought was necessary, and it turned out to be absolutely crucial that the reform has at least got where it is today. Nor is it likely that when the student organisations now gather on demands for the state budget, they are still concerned with student welfare and student housing. But what they're primarily concerned about is cutting out the rest cut that the government introduced in 2007, and making sure that the basic appropriations are back at the level they were before the rest cut came.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e565	The left has done some work in relation to the equality setting, and I would like to highlight two points of view. First of all, I think that in order to get qualified women to become professors, we need to create predictable and stable funding channels for fellow students and post-docs -- I've listened to enough fellows who say they're getting economically squeezed -- and that's absolutely crucial as a recruitment strategy. When we get to the point of whether we should have earmarked positions, the Left said that it was we willing to assess under the Bondevik II government. If it's now possible under the ESA regime, we're still open to it. But our main point is that you can't get anyone where there's room, unless you create stable and predictable framework conditions for fellows and post-docs. As a former member of the Bondevik II government, I know what inherited sin we had after the first Stoltenberg government. It's a little strange since inherited sin was broken by a government with the Right, Left and Christian People's Party in ensuring full funding for the quality reform, that a red-green government seems to have to keep the line from guessing, to say it that way. There's no reason, because it's exactly this line -- that Eriksen Soreide was in on -- that makes you get the situation of the institu tion you have in the institutions. It's right -- I've met the same student representatives as the representative Eriksen Soreide -- that they're quite clear that removing the cut in basic appropriations is absolutely crucial, because they know that it's absolutely necessary for them not to get into such painful situations that have occurred at a series of institutions. If the council wants to have a ‘breath’ in its back, if there can be any comfort before Thorbjørnrud--for us who know what it means--it's that the opposition is going to masturbate and gnaw and gnaw and do absolutely everything it can to plague the council, until the cut in the basic appropriations is corrected. We're going to do it in the formed Norwegian. We're going to do it with rhetorical force. We're going to masturbate. We're going to mobilize. If it helps and makes impressions on the Ministry of Finance at Thorbjørnrud, I don't know, but it's at least a friendly attempt to give the Council of State a little windwind, when I, first of all, can do what I can about Norwegian macro-economics -- I'm not going to try to account for it from the Storting Chair -- and when, secondly, I know how such budgetary conferences kind of work. Remedying the cut in basic appropriations is essential to have confidence in the continuation of the Quality Reform. It's absolutely crucial. It is not just the vision of the Left, Right, Advance Party and Christian People's Party. These are the views of the university and higher education sectors, the Norwegian business community, and the student organisations. This theme does not always create tabloid headlines, but it is about trust in a fundamental reform. The most important thing about this reform, as Mr Kristoffersen said, is that there is agreement on its main purpose. The councils are allowed to take this -- as an intriguing call -- along the way to Thorbjørnrud. I get to say it in good Norwegian: "Shit fishing!"
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e583	Tora Aasland State Council is given the opportunity to respond to this challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e586	Neither the Council of State nor the Stortinget have been hurt by exhilarating calls. So we're going to have to take it with us. In this last article today, I have two comments. I hear what Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide says about expectations and the situation at the University of Oslo in particular. You could say, really or not, that nothing was done at the university in the first year they got a reduction in basic appropriations. They might have had expectations that it would go over. But that means that what they're now facing in terms of appropriations will be twice as much as initially. I think that's a proper analysis of the situation. They should have heard some alarm clocks earlier in that the frames were as they were - but enough about it. I want to underline the institution's autonomy, which they have chosen to spread to all faculties. Of course, they could have chosen to do it in other ways. It is the responsibility of each institution to prioritise within the framework it receives at all times. But I'm going to be the first to admit that predictability is important in this field, as in many other fields. That the Bondevik government had the honour of fully financing the Quality Reform in its time, is correct, but there was cross-political excitement about it. It was a monotonous puddle standing behind it. That's what you have to say: all the parties were together about it. It is good for me to have further involved in the further development of the quality reform. I know that this is a matter and an anchor for higher education, which is therefore a cross-political agreement. To Odd Einar Dørum, I would like to say that the action that I have launched - both yesterday and today - on the designation of higher-level positions for women is not an action in that way that I am ‘placing out’ the ESA judgment and getting criticism back from there. I want to see where the limit goes. I am closely following developments internationally in this field, including in the EU area, because I know that positive things are happening there. I want to find possible solutions through ear-catching and other measures to get more women into the highest positions in the scientific environment and within the university environment. I hope I have support for this. I want to work systematically and thoroughly, not only with ear tagging, but also with other measures, to get this done.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e604	I just want to add a little comment to the Council's last article. The cuts now being made in the university and higher education sectors are quite serious. It's dramatic for them. In the first year, a race was set up that created quite high expectations: a ‘sleep cutting’ itself suggests that one should start again, and the sector has not received any money for that. In addition, there was a rather tough run towards the sector. It was assumed that the entire sector had large reserves, while the opposition made it quite clear that the sector was not able to use these provisions freely. The sector was put in a rather difficult situation. There was no attempt on the part of the Government to gain an understanding that the sector had to start cutting quite early. On the contrary, expectations were created that everything would come into place again. So the government's spokesmen put the sector in a very difficult situation, and I think that experience should be taken with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e613	I seldom let myself lift very much above the posts of the Council of State, because she is usually a very thoughtful and reflective Council of State. But I have to say that I'm a little worried when, with so much force, she blames the economic situation of the universities and colleges in, at the universities and the colleges themselves. There is no one in this room who has forgotten the Government's promise of the cutting of rest. I say "the promise of rest cutting", because the promise was that it would only be a rest cutting. So it meant that you had to come back stronger. The sector dealt with this and kept the level of operation up, so that the students in this derogation year would not be harmed. I think it is sad that the Council of State today shifts the responsibility of the Government, from itself to the higher education sector, which did the only right thing, namely to ensure that the student offer was not reduced. I would also like to congratulate the Council of State on the budgetary negotiations. If there is something the university and higher education sectors need now, it is to get this money back, because the rest cutting lasted a little longer than the government clearly signaled when they introduced it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e622	Odd Einar Dørum has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e625	Those of us who have brought Snorre know that in pagan times only the kings were tried to get better years. Many see it as merely former State Council Djupedal. I hope that we will not have more of these processes in the near future. It is quite clear, as many people have pointed out, that there was some sort of expectation that the cutting of the rest was passing, because the cutting of the rest like goods becomes a false cut and leads to a lot of other things. So that when the government is now working on the completion of important documents - on the state church, on how the Christian purpose paragraph in school should be and on the CRL subject - I hope that we can get a break, at least in the near future, on the old pagan custom of just government councils in time and without time to try to get better weather and better years. In any case, the lot SV should carefully consider whether it is worth simply setting up a Council of State to correct the cut in the basic allocation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e632	The funding of higher education is important. I am very pleased to have an evaluation of the funding system. SV has been very concerned that we should have strong basic funding in this system. In the 2006 budget, the Government made an adjustment of 274 million. kr in relation to the basic allocation. The reason why you saw that you could do this is because the universities had so much money in reserve. I hope that through the budgetary procedures that come, we can help change the cuts that have been. This cut from the government at 274 million. kr was on 1 pst. In the budget of the year, the Government increased the funding of the higher education institutions by 2 pst. The government chose to designate these means, among others: for fellows, museums, equipment, etc. So this government has increased the funding of higher education institutions, which the opposition is trying to talk away, but this is important. Of course, we're also concerned with the signals that we get from universities and colleges. We have received strong feedback on a number of consequences that have been caused by this cut, and that we are very concerned about the further budgetary process. But the reality is that this government strengthened the universities and colleges financially in the previous budget and did nothing cut.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e643	Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e646	I'll be brief. I hope the representative Jensen's description of reality does not follow the Council of State to Thorbjørnrud, because then there will not be much money for the sector. It's almost just the representative Lena Jensen, I think, who shares her reality, namely that there are large provisions in the sector. It has been thoroughly refuted time and time again, in fact, even by the late Minister of Knowledge, Øystein Djupedal, who later went out and said that he warned against the cut, and that there were no large provisions in the sector. On the contrary, the government was dependent on finding money that they wanted to prioritise for other purposes. It's a very honest thing, but then you don't have to present it as a rest cut, but as a real cut that the sector really can't have any hope of getting back. It is quite right, as several representatives have said here, that the rest cutting was presented as just that, a rest cutting that could be expected to be reversed in the 2008 budget. Therefore, institutions were just waiting for as long as possible to make painful cuts in education at the institutions, so that students would not be harmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e657	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 2425]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e672	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 65 minutes, and that speaking time be allocated as follows: the Working Party 20 minutes, the Progress Party 15 minutes, the Right 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Centre Party 5 minutes and the Left 5 minutes. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be a possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - This is a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e681	St.meld. No 35 for 2006-2007 on future dental services was submitted on 29 June last year. The Committee's work started seriously in January of this year, including: with a hearing on 16 and 17 January. The work of the committee has been quite painless, even though we have discussed both toothache and dental frights. As rapporteur, I would like to thank the members of the Committee for their good cooperation. A joint committee shares its conclusion that the social difference in dental health is largely a social difference in health, and the whole committee believes that it needs to focus more strongly on dental care for those who need it the most. But the different parties don't go equally far in their ambitions. The Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party are in favour of extending the rights to people with serious mental health problems, to those with drug problems and to those with disabilities, so that they are entitled to publicly funded dental services regardless of the suspension of home care or the benefits of home care. These are otherwise groups that the Dental Association also think should be included in the publicly funded dental services. The left and forward parts want to go the farthest, and suggest a stepping-up plan for the introduction of publicly funded dental services. The main point of view of the left is that it is unthinkable that dental treatment is separated from other medical treatments. Therefore, we had hoped that the message would contain a stepping-up plan for the introduction of a public refund system in line with the stipulations, with an attribute. But there we were disappointed, not least because state council Brustad has previously announced that the health gap should be narrowed and social inequalities smoothed out. Before the 2005 elections, SV announced that they would fight through a dental reform, so that everyone would be able to afford a real dental health. SV has, in my view, been very toothless in the work on the message. I am tempted to suggest root filling or at least that the lot drills deeper into the matter. Student organisations are disappointed with their dental messages. It also applies to the unit Tenner and Health. I can say that in the long term, the Left will include students in free dental treatment, but we prioritise them with the worst health and living conditions first. Left says we have to admit that mercury and amalgam can cause serious environmental and health problems. This means that it is necessary to intensify efforts to find possible links between the use of amalgam and health problems. The dental report gives a good description of the dental health of the population. That's good. The message also focuses on the expanded use of dentists and the prevention potential in it. It's also positive. But in general, there are many things that need to be reviewed and made more effective, and there are few concrete measures. Or, to be in the dental language, it's a little bit concrete to bite. However, positive changes in the 2009 budget are signaled. As others have said before, the Brustad Council is soon on its way to Thorbjørnrud, and she has to take all the good suggestions that are in the setting. Young people with eating disorders, especially anorexia and bulimia, may have severe dental problems, with torn, rotten or missing teeth. Bad teeth are often stigmatizing and socially exclusive, and many rely on social participation because of this. Some chroniclers, including diabetics, cancers, and rheumatics, have worse dental health than the rest of the population. Our main objection to the message is that the question of whether there should be a display system for those with high costs, or for those with low revenues, will be postponed. Poverty will not be eradicated with this message either! I shall inform the Grand Duchy that the Committee has been made aware of an inaccuracy in a comitology note on page 15, second column. Instead of ‘This is the only oral microbiological test laboratory in Norway’ should have said: ‘This is the only laboratory dealing exclusively with oral microbiological tests in Norway.’ Finally, I should like to say that the whole Committee is meeting on the Left's proposal to speed up and improve the treatment of victims of torture and abuse. Then I will signal that the Left will support the proposal No. 5, 6 and 7 from the Progress Party. Finally, I address the proposals No. 1, 2, 3 and 13, from the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e715	The representative Gunvald Ludvigsen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e718	In St.meld. No 35 for 2006-2007 The Government presents the main principles of future dental care in a comprehensive and good way. The objective is an equivalent offer, with competence, accessibility and social cohesion being the main message. A few had probably expected that we would strike with free dental treatment for everyone. But making universal arrangements does not mean that we reach those who need it the most. The approach proposed by the Government in the message, with an assessment of the inclusion of new groups, is correct. Priority should be given to those with low incomes and high disease costs, and the Communication therefore contains many measures and proposals to that effect. We have a number of experiences to support, including: in Sweden. There they have tried their ‘high-cost protection’, which shows that this becomes disproportionately expensive for society and is not targeted enough. Sweden is now changing the scheme. The Communication also discusses how we can maximise the availability of dental practitioners for an equivalent service across the country. In some places, it's a big shortage and it's hard to recruit, and here we have to work on several fronts. Grants, pilot projects of a different nature, training programmes for foreign dental practitioners and the strengthening of regional policy instruments are some of the measures mentioned. Here the county councils are an important actor. Slowly but surely new groups are included. We have in the past started by increasing the supply of drugs to drug users and prisoners, changed from contributions to benefits in the case of groups within §5-22 to §5-6. Furthermore, as children/young people, we secure those groups that are already within them with a higher level of mental retardation. They shall continue to be refunded. The red-green fraction is pleased that the youth free system, which had previously stopped at 18 years of age, has now been proposed to be extended to 20 years. It also means that some of the gray-sonic questions that come up for these are solved in a good way. There's every reason to look at it with old and dental health. Many older people have good teeth and do these for themselves. But when disease and impairments come, there is reason to worry. The maturity is fast, and a job has to be done here. Bad dental health affects nutrition and thus general health, affects well-being and social life, and in addition it will be painful. All of this will enhance the deterioration in the quality of life. There is therefore reason to continue to consider a social benefit scheme for the elderly. Prevention of early, regular and knowledge-based treatment is important. When the Committee notes that the subject of gerodontology, i.e. the learning of biological changes in the oral cavity should become a subject of health education, and encourages it, there is a way to contribute to the increased knowledge and focus of those who are to work among the elderly. Especially in the case of the elderly, the use of dentists is mentioned as a good resource. But it is important that those in daily care have this good knowledge and that they can be updated regularly. A lot can be done here, with dental care as a good help. The government also announces in the main message that increased efforts need to be made to train more dental nurses. We fully agree that it is a right way to go to get a better offer for many. The trend of major clinics, where dentists and dentists complement each other, is important. These clinics are important actors in the care of the elderly and in the public dentistry. The status is also enhanced by the proposal contained in the notification, where one considers introducing the possibility of providing social security benefits for the expenses of dental nurses on an independent basis. That means we have to recruit more, and we need more to go to school and take this education. The notification indicates an increase of up to 100 per person. years, and the majority of the Committee, with the exception of the Right-wing Confirmations, where this is to be done. We specify in the setting that, in addition to Middle Norway, Vestfold and Hedmark should also be involved. In the case of training of several dentists, the results of the Tromsø training are awaited, but it is in both these training courses, in the case of both dentists and dentists, important to focus on teacher forces, which may be lacking in the years to come. To get to this, we need to get dentists to retrain themselves. The government also warns in the notice that wages and salaries during education will be important for, among other things. dual competence, as an instrument for further consideration. As far as the younger age group is concerned, these are ensured through good schemes. The challenge is not met, and the transition from child to adult, i.e. from the public dental service to its own follow-up. The prevalence is high between 12 and 18 years of age, but is even higher over 18 years of age. There are several reasons, and many good measures are being put in place to prevent unused hours being available - organised offers being tested, hourly agreements that are more appropriate, calls and reminders with text messages, follow-up to the parents of the youngest group and also child protection messages in case of persistent absence. It turns out that dental fright is one of the reasons young people don't come. The main message addresses this as a challenge, and we think it is good that it is now focused on odontophobia, i.e. dental fright. A treatment of dental frights must be introduced before the teeth are treated. We know that many people have great needs because they haven't gone to the dentist. Now this is to be mapped, and the Government will later assess the right to publicly funded treatment. We are satisfied with the measures already taken in relation to drug users. We have put forward a proposal asking for an evaluation of the scheme, not because we believe that it should cease or change significantly, but because we want to know if it is correct, that interactions between public dentistry and the private sector work, how it works, whether there is enough money, and how many we actually reach. Many questions are asked. The goal must be that we get even better treatment for those with drug problems and that more people can be included in this good offer. I know that many have enjoyed what has happened. When it comes to good interaction between public and private, it is important. One example is clinics that cooperate both in public and in private, and we have district medical centers that show that this is the case. Taking advantage of common competences, interdisciplinary skills, reducing common costs and creating good professional environments, ensuring the continuous provision of treatment for the general public in holidays, etc. Measures need to be taken to support this. Newly trained dentists will also have the opportunity to help and support together, where experience from old dentists can be useful. One that many people are busy on is amalgam. The ban on amalgam was introduced on 1 January 2008. We agree that it is now important to try to cooperate with specialist health services and dental services where there is a suspicion of an adverse reaction. It is also important that the counsellor notified by the Social and Health Directorate to support the treatment of those who may have problems or are going to have problems. I would like to comment on a few of the suggestions. When the Advance Party wants to introduce a mandatory dental check at the first year of school, I wonder. I ask questions about whether they now want to weaken the arrangements that already exist. As I know, all the kids will have regular and out-of-office checks from the age of three, and I believe that the offer today is very good. At least it should not be weakened, as the Progress Party says in its proposal. We think the proposal from the Left, which was in relation to torture and assault victims, is very good. It's a small but weak group. By supporting that proposal, we show that we want to integrate new groups, those that need it the most. From the Workers' Party's side, we think the message is forward-looking, and the government's notice that they are going to fill it with more money and more content is something we're going to look forward to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e758	The cancellation message about dental health should have been a major and important matter. Dental care and various diseases in the oral cavity affect many individuals, people who in many cases suffer greatly, both physically and mentally. The message as such describes in an excellent way the challenges we face in terms of accessibility, skills development and social cohesion. But I have to say that rarely has it been said so much about our challenges, where at the same time you have meant so little. There is little help in producing 100 large-scale messages that describe our challenges, unless you follow up with concrete actions and financial appropriations. At times, one may wonder whether there is some kind of pedagogical internal medicine governing parties are involved, for some visible help to those who have health problems with their teeth or in the oral cavity does not result in this notification. Instead of doing something for those who have a dental problem, today's government wants to investigate, and explore areas that we today have more than enough knowledge and understanding about, infinitely. The whole dental problem is being pushed into an uncertain future, and for a government that says so much, but will so little, the future is at least most uncertain. Already in the stoppage from 2000 to 2001, an overall health and social committee expresses the following: ‘The Committee considers that the distinction between dental health and other health is artificial, because diseases in the oral cavity affect the general state of health in line with, and sometimes to a greater extent, that of other diseases.’ This was the perception eight years ago, and where have we come today? Unfortunately, no further steps. Another criticism is that when the Progress Party, as the largest opposition party, asks the Ministry for proceeds on different models of general reimbursement schemes, the answers are so uncertain that no serious political party can use them. This also points to the department itself. It is critical when the governing body is unable to provide correct answers. And how is Norwegian dental policy now compared to other countries? Sweden, with a non-socialist government, is to introduce a new general scheme in June, which, in short, amounts to a self-interest of NOK 3000. For operations from NOK 3000 up to NOK 15 000, the State refunded 50 pst. For operations above NOK 15 000, the State reimburses 85 pst. of the costs - a much better and more social scheme, which provides better dental care for the population than in Norway. Sweden has a deficit of approx. NOK 1,000 billion. Norway has a surplus of NOK 2,500 billion. It is strange that a country that has poor advice can afford more health for its population than the government has in Norway. It is amazing that the red-greens in the big message underline the importance of social cohesion, when they at the same time oppose our proposal to include single people with income under 2 G in the self-participation 2 scheme. This proposal will help them with the lowest income, like pensioners and students, to get a better dental health. Government parties also oppose the inclusion of patients with particularly high dental costs related to disease and treatment in the oral cavity in the self-participation scheme 2. To stress that it is important to capture the groups mentioned by the Progress Party in its proposals, you can refer to studies in Sweden - because we have no one. That's 23 pst. that there are economic reasons why they do not go to a dentist. That's exactly what this Progress Party is doing by setting the 2G limit. The Communication underlines the need for more dental practitioners and dental specialists, while at the same time the government parties are passive and are opposed to any proposal to strengthen the level of education. Part of today's dental treatment is the responsibility of the county. They have a caretaker responsibility for caring in institutions, those receiving home care, mentally ill and other groups with public dental rights. Today's care-responsibilities work far too badly and to give better dental health to these users, who are very often older people, the Progress Party has made proposals that give them an unconditional right to dental care - for the county authorities' care-responsibilities unfortunately function too poorly. We have also made proposals to extend today's reimbursement arrangements in the case of orthopaedic jaw surgery and for those suffering from periodontitis. The Progress Party wants to introduce a policy in Norway that treats the oral cavity in the same way as the rest of the body. Unfortunately, today's government has completely different intentions. It seems like yesterday's history and politics are what's happening, and you've painted into a corner that you can't get out of. I bring this up with the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e789	The representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e792	The big message we are dealing with today contains good, thorough explanations and analysis of the situation in the dental field. However, it is so exposed to political ambitions and bets in the field that it must be embarrassing for the government parties. The main policy measure in the Communication is to cancel the red-green promise of free dental treatment to all. The government's dental report is the story of several red-green politicians who went up like a lion and came down like a trap--and barely that. There were almost no limits to what central politicians, in particular from the SV and the Workers' Party, promised in the dental field before taking up government offices. In the newspaper on August 2, 2004, party leader Kristin Halvorsen said that no one should not go to the dentist because they cannot afford it. She went on to say that dental reform was one of the three most important welfare reforms in the next few years, and that dental health should be included in public health in line with other health services. But Finance Minister Halvorsen cannot afford to give poorer dental treatment, even though Norway has never been richer. Workers' Party Health Policy at Stortinget, Britt Hildeng, also promised free dental treatment in VG on 12 February 2002. Such a bet would have had a price tag of at least NOK 6 billion if the patient's peculiarities were taken into account and would not take into account administrative costs or dynamic effects. However, Hildeng's colleague, Brustad State Council, now supplies, is not $6 billion for a welfare reform, but $6 million. kr, which was granted during the budgetary procedure during the autumn. The boisterous 6 million that Brustad has set aside in its budget are not even for dental treatment for those who need it the most, but for measures of competence. The right has never promised free dental treatment to everyone, because we've thought that this would not be a proper priority for the health care funds. I am happy to belong to a party that is responsible enough not to contribute to creating an expectation crisis in this area as well. For most people, dental expenditure represents an affordable cost. At a time when most people have good private finances and good dental health, there is no basis for applying general reimbursement schemes for these costs. However, it has been a central element of the Right’s dental policy that those with low incomes and high dental costs need better public support schemes. Poor dental health can lead to severe pain, problems in eating and experiencing social stigmatizing. Such dental problems particularly affect those with drug problems, sick elderly people and those with mental health problems. At the same time, some people have so low income over time that they have problems covering the expenses of a dentist. In particular, in view of the need to strengthen the health provision of these groups, the Cooperative Government set up a public body to explore different aspects of dental care. The right has already started to strengthen the dental care of those who need it the most, and we believe this is the main direction for the further work in the dental field. The Co-operation Board introduced a completely new self-participating protection system 2 which ensures public support, inter alia: for surgical treatment for dental problems and treatment of periodontitis. The co-operation administration also provided for a significant extension of the lowthreshold provision of health services to drug addicts, ranging from 11 million. spent in eight municipalities in 2001 to 54 million. SEK to 38 municipalities in 2005. Within this initiative, funds were allocated to lowthreshold dental services, such as are established in Oslo, which is very successful. In the right, there is a need to significantly strengthen the supply of drug addicts, and therefore put more money into it than the Government in its alternative state budget. We find it very disappointing that the Government is postponing the decision to extend the scheme. In the light of the promises mentioned by the Government, it is very regrettable that not even those who sit at the bottom of the table, and who need it the most, are offered a dental offer. Dental services for people with severe problems have to be designed as unbureaucratic lowthreshold services. This is essential for people with, for example, drug problems and severe mental disorders to have access to the necessary dental care. The right considers that better dental treatment for the elderly and others receiving care services must be a priority. Many sick elderly people experience a significant deterioration in their dental health when their ability to self-care is reduced. The right has proposed a knowledge gap for care staff, and better knowledge of dental care should be part of this. People with mental health disorders also have a special need for better dental care. The mental illness may in itself affect the patient’s ability to care for dental health. In addition, the use of the psychopharmaceutical leads to oral dryness, which causes too many significant dental problems. In view of the fact that mental health protection is now evolving towards more follow-up in the community, many mentally ill people will lose the right to cover dental treatment related to long-term housing. I would like to stress that this patient group needs to get better, not worse rights to dental care. In the event of an incurrency, the Right Members do not have a note about torture and assault victims in the section of the option. 2.2. However, the right supports the comment and will also vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. The right considers that the county is an unnecessary level of administration and wants to transfer tasks from this level of administration to the municipalities and the state. It is unfortunate that dental care as the only part of healthcare is still under county administration. As we see it, these tasks should be transferred to the ordinary health care of municipalities and health businesses. A transfer of responsibilities to municipalities will help to strengthen prevention through cooperation between different municipal health services. Furthermore, such reorganisation can strengthen the provision of services to children and young people by allowing dental care to cooperate with the health centre and the school health service. It is a major challenge to ensure good coverage of dental services across the country. From the Right, we are pleased that the Government here will use positive instruments and does not support the many regulatory proposals made in NOU 2005:11. The co-operation administration launched an action plan for the increased recruitment of dental professionals. Right state councillors Kristin Klemet and Ansgar Gabrielsen also got the pleasure of opening their own dental studies in Tromsø, which I am sure will contribute to better recruitment in North Norway. The proposal for a better division of tasks between dentists and dentists appears to be sensible and forward-looking. The right supports the proposal to extend the capacity of dental care training and agrees that this should be assessed in both Mid-Norway, Westfold and Hedmark. In addition, we are positive about giving dental nurses a right to reimbursement, as the government is calling for. On the right, we continue with the Christian People's Party and the Left to simplify the recognition system for dental practitioners who want to work in Norway. Recruitment of foreign dentists is very important in order to ensure better dental coverage, especially in the districts, and we need to ensure that there are no bureaucratic obstacles here. The measures proposed by the Government to strengthen patients’ consumer rights in relation, inter alia, to: better price information, is positive and is supported by the Right. A study conducted by Opinion on behalf of the Consumer Council shows that 98 pst. by the asked ones are satisfied with their dentist. It is gratifying to note that this part of healthcare works well for the vast majority of people. At the same time, it is necessary to significantly strengthen dental care for those with severe dental problems and poor finances. In summary, I would like to say that the dental report is dominated by good intentions, but is without concrete, binding measures. It is disappointing because there is no doubt that there is a need to implement a number of measures to improve dental health for many vulnerable groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e834	In St.meld. No 35 for 2006-2007, a proposal for a comprehensive policy for future dental care is now being presented to the population. The left-wing representative Gunvald Ludvigsen claims that SV has been toothless in its efforts to bring about a dental reform. I must then be allowed to show that SV has long wanted a dental reform. If we go as far back as eight years, Olav Gunnar Bello actually presented a Document No. 8 proposals here in the hall, and it shows that we've had a strong commitment to this case for many years. There are no other governments that have done anything in the dental field in recent years, and this is the first message that has been submitted for many years. We are, of course, proud of that and very happy about it. The main thrust of the Communication is to achieve social cohesion, good accessibility and equivalence in the provision of dental services. The health status of the population has improved significantly over the past 35-40 years. The general health of the population must be said to be reasonably good, but approximately. 10-15 pst. of children and young people have dental problems today. Many have congenital diseases, disorders or developmental defects that also cause dental problems. It is also part of the adult population who have dental problems because they do not seek dental treatment — because of poor finances, living conditions, anxiety or anything else. The social inequality within dental care is largely a result of social inequality in health. The government will therefore gradually extend the dental provision to those who need it the most, among other things. to persons with severe mental illness, persons with functional impairment, persons with very low income, sick hubarbs and 19-20-year-olds. The government will bring new rights to those who need it most by focusing on outreach services in combination with public organisation and funding of dental services. In a later budgetary context, the government will come back to proposals for new groups that should be offered publicly funded dental services as an outreach offer. The government will also review the ownership arrangements. We in SV agree that the dental provision should be gradually extended to those who need it the most, but in the longer term we will balance these differences with universal schemes. Universal schemes shall apply both to the poor and to the rich. It shall not be a poverty stamp on those who are shielded from dental expenses. To achieve the goal of good and equivalent geographic availability for dental care, it's a prerequisite that we get enough dentists recruited, and keep the dentists we have in areas of weak dental care coverage and where we actually lack dentistry. We in SV are therefore pleased that the Government will implement regional policy instruments so that the county council is better able to recruit and maintain dentistry. At the same time, success in the government’s proposed approach to improving access to dental care and specialist dental care, and at the same time strengthening the funding of decentralised specialist training to improve the geographical distribution of dental specialists, will be a clear quality promise for the provision of dental care to the entire population across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e851	With the presentation of this big message, the Government has set the goal of creating a comprehensive policy for dental care for the population. There are many areas that are being discussed, but when about 20 proposals, or areas, end up with the Government’s ‘will assess’, ‘come back to’, ‘ensure monitoring’, ‘start work aimed at later evaluation’, and similar formulations, we only need to note that the Government has set a very slow pace in the implementation of improvements. The government does not take the necessary steps to find solutions, and the lack of concrete proposals in areas discussed in several contexts surprises. Improvements in the dental field are pushed forward in time, including in terms of improvements to rights and reimbursement arrangements for those who need it the most. The Government summarises that it will continue to work on the questions of criteria and identification of the number, treatment needs and costs for proposals in the later legal and budgetary context. The distinction between dental care and other health services is no longer relevant, I believe, in relation to disease and necessary treatment. The body is a coherent whole. Therefore, disease in the oral cavity is as important as disease and plague elsewhere in the body. The Christian People's Party has noticed that one of the main objectives of the Government's policy is to contribute to the reduction of health risks in the population and to the improvement of the health of individuals. At the same time, the Ministry of Health and Welfare has sectoral responsibility for issues related to patients’ health risks. In this context, the Christian People's Party will point to the recognition that mercury is harmful to both environment and health. There must be a few consequences for the management of health problems that may be a consequence of the impact of mercury in some form or another. A ban on the use of mercury, including the use of amalgam as dental filling material, has been regularly discussed in this room, in fact for the last 18 years. And from 1 January this year the ban finally came into force. It's a pleasure. Exposure to mercury has long been known to cause central nervous system damage. Symptoms have been described, and the symptoms of poisoning are well known and also well documented according to a report dated 30 October 2007, commissioned by the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion. I will quote something from the report: ‘From the reviewed literature, it seems reasonable to conclude that exposure to mercury itself may lead to a relatively low level of adverse effects on motor and cognitive functions.’ The Christian People's Party believes it is important to intensify the work in this area, and sees the research project as the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion publish, as a positive action - although it is very limited. In connection with the dental report and the ban on mercury, the Christian People's Party has in fact been contacted that there is also mercury in some preservatives used in health care, among others. in vaccines. It suggests that some may have acquired mercury both through mass vaccination, amalgam fillings, food and also through the working environment. Therefore, there may be a need to check out this area even more thoroughly to see whether there may be more reasons for the increase in cognitive failure in society, for example. dementia, mental illness, etc. We don't know much about this. Attention must also be paid to inflammation of the oral cavity, which may lead to chronic diseases and other. To put it another way: serious medical conditions can start in the oral cavity. Close cooperation between dentists/dental practitioners and other health professionals is important in order to achieve a comprehensive diagnosis and treatment. The Christian People's Party is somewhat more impatient than the Government in initiating measures for those who need it the most and who can no longer wait, for example. free dental treatment for all elderly people with disabilities, persons with severe mental health problems and those with drug problems. I have a comment on the SV representative who says that no previous government has done anything about dental health. I want to remind you that it was the Bondevik II government that put down the Tooth Health Committee. We got the NOU in the summer of 2005, and that's probably why we're here today and we can debate this matter. I am just pointing out that the proposals that we are making have already been raised by the case rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e884	Today, the dental health is far better than it was 20-30-40 years ago. Good information work, the use of fluorine, the awareness of dentistry and the regular follow-up of children and young people have had a positive impact on this development. The Storting Communication describes the development of the dental field and how the Government wants to bet in the future. The notification shall be followed up by legislative changes and budgetary strengthening giving new groups the rights they do not currently have. So it's said here that these are just words. I just want to mention one important thing that the government has actually done in this field since 1 January, and that is to remove the requirement that a person should have gone to dental treatment regularly in order to receive social security funding treatment. I believe that what has been done in this regard is very important. Understandably, this criterion is removed for a drug addict, one who has been mentally ill for a long time, one who may have been under the drug for 10-15 years and has not regularly gone to a dentist. That this criterion has been removed, in fact, shows that this government is doing something in this field as well. These are not just words that include: Right-wing claims the message is composed of. The centre party, together with the other government parties, will not implement universal arrangements in the dental field. The priority should be given to vulnerable groups; better rights should be given to those who need it the most. The parties argue that children and young people, persons with occupational injuries, military pensioners and mentally retarded persons should continue to be entitled to publicly funded dental services. Despite the fact that the proportion of toothless decreases in the population, there are groups who have poor dental health. These include people with disabilities, with congenital diseases, cancerous, elderly and some chronic groups. The centre party believes it is important that those with low incomes and high disease costs are given priority. Drug users, mentally ill, chroniclers, disabled people and groups of older people are among these. The Central Party is pleased that the Government announces that it will come back in future budgetary and legislative work with further assessments of the proposal that people with severe mental health problems and those with drug problems should be entitled to publicly funded dental services - regardless of whether they are staying at an institution or receiving home care. The Christian People's Party and the Left have a proposal, proposal No. 13th@item: inlistbox The government is working on these things, and I'm actually going to encourage the Christian People's Party and the Left to make that proposal a transmission proposal. In terms of dental coverage, there are some challenges in our long-term country. We have been rescued by Swedish, Danish and not least German dentists who have chosen to work in Norway, and some of them have actually remained here. The expectations for improved recruitment of dental practitioners in North Norway and in North Trøndelag are high after Stortinget decided that the University of Tromsø would start dental training. As this study has been conducted, with a lot of practice in top modern dental clinics spread throughout the country, it is likely to be recruiting. Furthermore, county councils active in the recruitment of newly trained dentists succeed in recruiting. The government encourages municipalities to support dental practitioners in an application process for state resources for business development when a dentist wants to establish himself with private practice. Furthermore, the Government announces that it will propose in budgetary terms a strengthening of regional policy instruments that can contribute to geographical equivalence in terms of accessibility to dental services. This is important. Pre-responsibilities for dental health shall be at the regional level, at the county level. To solve this responsibility, it is necessary to continue to have the good interaction between private dentists and the public. When new groups are included in the reimbursement scheme, the public dental service is entirely dependent on a good interaction with private dentists. Without this interaction, county councils will not be able to fulfil their responsibilities or to add new groups to receive dental treatment. Then I want to point out something that the representative Fredriksen said. Fredriksen strongly criticises the office from this pulpit. [[President clubs]] As an answer to...
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e908	The President must ask for a respectable time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e911	I can continue where the representative Schjälaa left off. To the extent that criticism is to be addressed - and that is always the right of opposition - it is to be addressed to me and not to my employees. I'm the one who's responsible. I very much defend what has been sent, seafaringly, from me to the Stortinget in the form of letters. So I believe that this debate and this big message too are very welcome. I am, of course, taking a very strong distance from the claims that have been so far advanced in the debate, that these should be just words. I would like to remind you that the previous message on dental care came in 1975, and that the current law on dental care was passed by the Stortinget as far back as 1983. So there are a lot of parties that have been on this platform today, which have had a lot of opportunities to submit a message, but which I record has not done so. This does not mean that there has been no public selection, and that things have not been done, but this government has provided this message. And why is that important? Well, because we know that there are actually a lot of people, more than we might want to believe, who are struggling because they have problems with their teeth, either because they have not had the money or the opportunity to get them repaired, or because they have lost them. They have problems, including: I've met many people who have been socially isolated because of it. The government, as the title of the message says, has put the greatest emphasis on the availability of dental services, the competence of dental services and the social cohesion of differences in dental health. I'm glad that it seems to be quite broad support for those main lines. With the measures we propose in St.meld. No 35, we follow up on the government's strategy to balance social health differences. In the message we have given clear signals about who needs public dental care the most. I want to get back to -- as it's also normal in other matters -- how we're going to set up, finance, and legitimate service to achieve this. This message must also be seen in the context of the care message and the Government’s commitment to public health, mental health and the general work against drugs and poverty. The government's value base is evident in the Soria Moria Declaration: we will reduce social disparities in society and strengthen public responsibility and role in key welfare tasks, such as: health and care. For dental care, it means that we need to reach even better those who need the most dental care. We know that need can be justified in several ways. Some people have bad finances, which means they can't afford to go to the dentist. Some people are in a situation of life where they do not have the ability to take care of toothaches or have an increased risk of dental problems. Some have a disease that affects teeth and oral cavity. There are also people who live in such a way that there are no dental services in the vicinity of where they live. We have to make sure that all groups of dental professionals, especially dentists and dentists, are available throughout the country. That is not the case today. Furthermore, the resources of dental care need to be exploited even better. We can handle this, among other things. by training more dental nurses who can meet the needs of the first line even better and by performing public health work. I believe that dentists, for example, as many people have been involved, can do a simpler treatment of periodontitis, which is, therefore, an inflammation of the gums that causes the teeth to loosen, and then they should also get a refund from the fear of the people. Dentists should, as we see it, also have the opportunity to enter into a direct settlement agreement with the Working and Welfare Act, in line with dentists. We also want more dentists into the private sector. We need a better distribution of dental specialists, and the establishment of regional centres of excellence in odontology is an important contribution to achieving this. Based on these centres of expertise, we can establish decentralised specialist training courses in all health regions. The fact that dentists are paid under specialist training is also an important measure in this context. The aim is to strengthen the position of users. We have already provided significantly simpler rules for reimbursement of dental expenses: The requirement that dental treatment should be approved in advance fell away from 1 September 2007. Before 1 January this year, contributions from the population could be applied for to cover dental expenses. From this year on, the scheme has been included as a social benefit and is provided as a reimbursement, without the patient having to apply. Direct settlement between dentists and NAVs has also been provided, so that patients do not apply for treatment and seek reimbursement in retrospect. This will help a good many patients. We have removed the requirement for a regular visit to a dentist to get a refund. We will assess whether the dental care should not also be included under the patient ombudsman scheme in the future. As you know, there is already a proposal for treatment here in the UK to extend the patient ombudsman scheme to several groups in the municipal sector. We'll provide a better basis for selecting dentists or dentists. In the opinion of the Government, persons entitled to dental care from the county must also be able to choose which dentist or dentist they want to use. We will make changes to the price code and establish an electronic price portal for dental care, so that patients can compare the prices of different dentists, without having to visit a dentist. We have to realize that we have some limited knowledge of the dental condition of the people, about diseases in teeth and oral cavity, about the relationship between disease in the mouth and the rest of the body. We may also know too little about treatment needs, the impact of social security schemes and which prevention strategies are most effective, etc. We know more about children and young people's dental health than we know about adults. There are several reasons why there are gaps in knowledge. This is probably due to the structure of dental services with many small clinics and the fact that the public sector only accounts for a quarter of the total service. The fact that dentists in the private sector are not obliged to report on their activities and that there are few research environments that research on dental health may also be part of the explanation. There has been little systematic quality work at the overall level, and we also lack quality indicators for county dental services and services in private practice. This work believes the government we have to intensify. The government has proposed that the responsibility for dental care should remain at regional level, i.e. in the county. We can't see the need for changes in addition to strengthening today's level of governance. Today, county councils are known to be responsible for public health work in the field of dental health. They are responsible for outreach services to children and young people up to 20 years of age, to the elderly and the sick, to drug addicts and to prisoners in prisons. We suggest that more people are offered dental services and that it be possible to choose dentists and dentists in the public or private sector. It also means that the county council must conclude agreements with private dental practitioners and dentists to a greater extent than at present. With better knowledge of the dental state and dental development of the population, I believe that the offers can only be better. It is therefore proposed to provide the county council with co-responsibility in addition to current responsibilities for dental care. Other new tasks will be research, professional development and quality development. We have given the Employment and Welfare Act several assignments that they are going to finish this year. It is now in progress, for example. work on proposals for protective systems for those with the highest cost of dental treatment, as several speakers have mentioned. As part of this work, we will review the reimbursement arrangements, for example: in the regulation of teeth and the treatment of periodontite and the rehabilitation of the dental set after periodontite. I have noticed that the Committee has been committed to extending the rights to dental care and establishing mechanisms to help those who need it the most. It's usually very important, but it's at least as important, as the government and I see it, to provide access to services and increased competence across the country. There is little help in providing more dental care if the services are not available. In the short term, therefore, I believe that measures to improve accessibility will include: to set up regional odontological centres of excellence, to introduce wages under training for dental specialists, to train more dental specialists in a decentralised model and to increase the educational capacity of dental nurses - is one of the most important things we can do. I have also noted the Committee's wish to expand the outreach offer in the county council and to expand and increase the social security disbursements. We intend to expand the arrangement for those who need it the most. I will come back to Stortinget with more concrete proposals in an appropriate way on later occasions, as we always do when dealing with messages.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e943	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e946	Today's care-responsibilities that the county has do not function satisfactorily in many places. This also confirms the Dental Association. There are considerable differences in the supply of care-intensive services in institutions, those receiving home services, mentally ill and other rights-holders, which are actually provided through current county responsibilities. What does the Council of State think must be done in this area, so that these groups get better dental health? Today's system doesn't work very well in many places.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e953	I think the most important answer to the question from Fredriksen's representative is that we have to get to even more decentralised activities and have more dental nurses and dentists trained throughout the country, so that people, wherever they live, actually have access to dental treatment when they need it and in all county municipalities. It's probably true that these are inequalities in the offer given. Let me just use one example: I visited for a while back the county council doctor in Hedmark, who is stationed in the municipality of Elverum. They told me about their offer of outreach to people who are struggling with alcohol. We need to have a lot more of that kind of business, for example. to some of the most vulnerable groups. The county councils must also focus in the future on the need to enter into more agreements with private dentists and dentists than is the case today, just to reach those of whom I believe most in this room are concerned, namely the most vulnerable groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e960	As I was in my post, the Right wants to improve the support schemes that are established, among other things. for addicted, mentally ill, patients suffering from periodontitis, and recipients of care services. One measure that we believe needs to be strengthened immediately is the low-threshold services that were set up under the co-operation administration. And as I pointed out in my post, these offers have an invaluable impact on the absolutely worst-placed. When the Council of State now goes to Thorbjørnrud to negotiate next year's budget, I'll ask her to put these measures at the top of the priority list. My question is whether the Council of State can confirm that next year she will ensure that those who have the worst will now receive a better offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e969	The representative, Sjøli, knows that I can't say today when the government comes back with suggestions to follow up what's now in the message and the settings of the committee here in Stortinget. But what the representative Sjøli and everyone else can be absolutely sure of is that this government, including me seas, is very concerned about reducing the social health differences in a broad sense. Then it is in that we are seafaringly concerned primarily with getting better action for those who need it the most. As the representative Sjøli has pointed out in several rounds: some of them are struggling with drug problems and/or mental disorders I also have strong faith in different low-threshold offers. It's so that someone, because they have difficult lives, can't get to the dentist. There must be someone who goes home and picks them up and helps them with the horror that many people have for dentists, before you can start repairing your teeth at all. There is a lot to fall into place, and it is not just sending a card in the post office that you have an hour. And this we're very much prepared to try to relieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e976	The Christian People's Party is committed to caring for those groups that are struggling with economic and health issues, including: by covering and finding solutions for them with serious dental problems and, therefore, heavy expenditure. We've been waiting for over two years for the government's notice. In response to all the questions and suggestions in Stortinget, of which there has been a part in this period, the Council of State has referred to this communication that was to come. When can we expect the Government to complete further investigations and make proposals for action for the different groups that need it? Will it be during this period of government? It's already coming halfway. There are so many points where things have to be investigated, there are just a few points that say that we have to go back to the 2009 budget. That's why we need to hear a little bit more about when these investigations could be completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e985	Firstly, the Government has proposed and the Storting has already joined in several measures that improve some of those who need it the most, for example. incarcerated in prison and a part struggling with intoxication. That way we're going to go on and on. The further process will now be that we are going to come back with the proposals we might have after this debate, in budgetary terms - that is where they belong - and also in the context of law, in relation to rights for more people. We're not going to spend more time in this area than we need. But I can't say today just what date or month we're coming back, but what I can guarantee, is that this is a work that we're very concerned about, and where we're shipping also coming back to the Stortinget with proposals as soon as we have something clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e992	The main impression I have of this big message is that there are many good intentions, but there are very few concrete proposals for action. It has been mentioned as 'outgoing', etc. I've spoken these words. The item has been used 16 times, it has been used 19 times and its value 69 times. We want, from the Committee's point of view, the same thing that we heard in the previous case, where Tora Aasland was wanted to be happy on the road, with the downwind to Thorbjørnrud - and so do we to the Council of State Brustad. So my question to the Council of State is: Can the Council of State promise new measures in the 2009 budget, as the Government has signaled in the dental report? The Council of State knows that the Committee will applaud all the new good proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e999	I first thank you for the wish of the cowinding--we all need that. This message is not different from the other messages. I agree with the representative Ludvigsen that there is nothing concrete about this. I believe that here we have very specific proposals on where to go, for example. in the case of 19-20-year-olds, health control for the elderly, which is very important, and in assessing the extension of the scheme to some of those with the greatest problems, such as people with mental and drug problems, etc. The normal thing about messages is that they don't contain concrete proposals other than what I'm saying now, but they come back to this in terms of law and budget. That is what we have purposed to do. So I think that here lies the good suggestion and good grip. I also note that in some areas the Committee has proposals for reinforcements, and I have no objection to that. I think it's good suggestions, and we're going to follow it up in a proper way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1009	Good dental health is important to everyone, and the general dental health has never been better than it is today. This development has been gradual. It's those old people today who have the worst starting point, and it's still those who have the worst teeth. Governments were involved in interventions for the elderly and others with the right to dental care. And in this round we had a golden opportunity to lift caring in institutions, those who receive home services, mentally ill and others who have rights in the public dentistry, by granting them an unconditional right to dental care, as the Advancement Party suggests. Does the Council of State not see that this could be appropriate?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1016	Older people are usually as different as everyone else, at all ages. Many people have the opportunity to go to a dentist, but it's probably also a part that doesn't do it for different reasons, for example. economic. It's also so that people have different starting points. We're dedicated to maintaining a good dental condition and doing it even better for older people as well. This is one of the reasons why we propose a so-called regular check of freshness, to prevent the teeth from decaying as quickly as anyone experiences. We're going to come back with concrete proposals as soon as we can, but I'm sure the representative Valved agrees - I take the chance - that we also have to make sure that availability is good across the country. Unfortunately, we're not there today, so we have to be able to do both of these things fairly parallel, as I see it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1023	The cord shift is therefore over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1026	Jan-Henrik Fredriksen has explained the view of the Progress Party on the matter, but I will nevertheless make some comments after hearing the debate here. There were, as everyone says, a lot of people who had expectations of this big message. There are probably very few who think that the Storing Message contains what they expected. It may not be so strange when we hear how long it has been since something actually happened, especially something that has helped most people. The message is not ambitious, but it adds up to looking at more things. So it's clear that everyone here agrees that that's not good enough. This is where we have to move on. Some have a free dental service today, and have had it for many years, including. children, and subsequently drug users. Many of these don't meet when they're called to a dentist, and it's a big problem, not primarily for a dentist, but because they often have the worst dental condition that doesn't meet. We need low-threshold services that catch up with this group and make sure they get into the dentist's chair. This is especially true for children. In the past, they were picked up in the classroom. I guess that's something everyone remembers that's experienced it. We need something similar today, that you make sure that those who need help get it. The hearing found that very many groups may need to be screened against dental expenses. It's about those who have diabetes, it's about those who have cancer, and it's about some of those who have eating disorders. There are also many other diseases that cause bad dental health, e.g. some medicines may cause oral dryness. We're going to have free dental care for mental retarders, drug users, social recipients, prisoners in prison, the elderly, students who need it, for them under 20 years of age and those with income below 2 G. So a screening system will eventually include a lot of things. You might start looking at who is not covered by such a scheme. If the government now chooses to gradually integrate more and more groups into a system of free dental health or reimbursement, I think we'll actually have bigger problems getting bureaucrats to process or reject these applications than getting dentists. The aim must be to bring forward proposals for a general scheme as soon as possible, so that dental services become the rest of our health services. There is no good explanation that an infection in the mouth has to be paid by private means, whereas with an infection on the outside of the cheek you have to be able to go to a doctor and get free treatment. Now it's still not like it's a spa experience to sit in a dentist's chair. As long as there are medical dental treatments or drilling and repairs that are absolutely necessary, there is no great danger that people will abuse such a system. Of course, those who want a general system for everyone do not want the public to pay for cosmetic things. This applies to the necessary dental treatment. A universal order will reach all. Then we also avoid what the SV representative said, that it becomes a poverty case, that some should receive reimbursement and others not. We simply need a new dental reform, all of which is to be included. There should be good music in the government's ears, if they want to fulfill their own slogan. The progress party believes at least that it is high time that you started taking a little bigger steps - very big steps - because small steps have been taking too long. We look forward not only to the small changes that the Government announces they will come along, but to a real reform that will include everyone, providing a good dental service to everyone, regardless of their economy, their place of residence and the situation in which they are at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1041	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1044	Tannhelse is now finally on the health policy agenda. I have to say I'm a little tired of hearing the opposition's negative attitude. This message is very comprehensive and actually has a thorough review of both the status and challenges in the dental field. I believe that the Council of State was concerned that the name of the message itself is a key to some of the major challenges facing us, namely accessibility, competence and social cohesion. We want everyone to have good access to dental health, regardless of where they live, etc. I'm very pleased that the Council specified availability to dentists 24 hours a day. So it's my definite impression that dentists are a profession that, whether they're employed in public or in private, is genuinely concerned with their patients. They are also, in my opinion, very good at working together to find solutions that are for the benefit of patients. I'm sure I'll see the bet we've had on, among other things. drug users and the treatment they have received are an example of the fact that they really take their professional task seriously. Competence is equally crucial for the good treatment of teeth and dental diseases as for the treatment of other areas of the body, as a number of speakers have pointed out. Both this message and the setting place place great emphasis on social cohesion, such as: The representative Mandt-Bartholsen and others from the Red-Greens have been in the room. Of course, we also believe that the follow-up to this dental report must be given priority in future budgets, along with other important health issues. I'm not sure if I fully understood what Giltun's representative meant when it was for students. We've probably assessed it so that the students are a group that comes under them with low incomes, and that we must therefore assess in this context. The report mentions the possibility for dental practitioners to refer patients to a medical specialist. I'm very concerned about that. Our perception is that it should be seaworthy, and we believe that it has to be solved. If that's how we mean that teeth are to be considered part of the body, we have to find a solution to that. If this is about a professional struggle, it has to be settled. I hope the Government's approach to that is positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1059	The representative of the Kschlaaen's appeal that the Left and Christian People's Party's proposal No. 13 is converted into a transmission proposal, I believe that the Government actually supports the reality of the proposal. One gets even stronger in that opinion if a reads the government party's comments in the setting on page 11. I take this as an important partisan and would like to take note of the Commissioner's call, so that proposal No. 13 will be converted into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1066	The President has noticed this and will come back to it during the vote. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 2425]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1083	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and distributed up to 5 minutes per batch and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will suggest that there is no opportunity to change lines, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note. The first speaker is Sonja Mandt-Bartholsen, on behalf of the spokesman for Saka, Jan Bøhler.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1090	This is a proposal that has been examined several times in relation to different documents. I refer you to the examination of Document No. 8:83 for 2006-2007 and St.meld. No 25 for 2005-2006, Mestring, opportunities and meaning, and at the end of the budget. S. No 11 for 2006-2007, to the State budget for 2007. The majority in this case - the Labour Party, the Right, the SV, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left - therefore refer to their comments in these matters, and are in favour of the proposal being rejected. I expect the minority here, the Progress Party, to present their own proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1099	I'm probably not going to spend 5 minutes, but I still want to attach some words to the matter since it's me, along with party colleagues, who have promoted the proposal. Once again, the other batches show that they see no reason to protect the elderly from being subjected to abuse by health professionals who have been convicted in the past, despite the fact that everyone is familiar with the recurrence risk of crime. The reason for the imposition of a police record for health professionals working with children and those with developmental disabilities was precisely a desire to protect them from abuse. So here we saw a great danger of repetition. Older caregivers may be an equally vulnerable group, and it is therefore sad that the other parties choose to ignore that they have the same need. Unfortunately, it is not possible to conclude that there is some serious abuse, and that in many cases older caregivers do not dare to say so. People who receive home care or home care from the municipality or other service providers, and their relatives should of course be able to feel safe about who enters the door to their homes. Often they have keys to the dwelling so they can lock themselves in, as the helper often cannot move to the door to unlock. It is therefore important to require proof of good conduct for those who are to work in this field. There is reason to mention that many people with dementia in hospitals, and unfortunately too many home-dwelling dentures, are a very vulnerable group who cannot always exercise their own rights. Older caregivers must therefore have the same protection against possible abuses, both physical and psychological as well as economic. I would like to stress, of course, that there is no guarantee that there is no breach even if you introduce such a certificate, but it is at least a little more security if you do not have employees who have previously been convicted of such a situation. We know very well that we have proposed this several times, but we also have experience that a proposal is rarely adopted the first time it is put forward. There's something about the secret of repetition. I am quite sure that eventually more people will also join in the view that the Progress Party has in this matter. However, it is disappointing once again to witness how little understanding it is that strongly nurturing or dementing is a particularly vulnerable group, but I can at least promise that it will not be the last time the representatives of the Progress Party promote the proposal in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1121	I didn't intend to take the floor, because we've dealt with this matter many times before. But when the representative Giltun says that the government doesn't do anything to protect the elderly, that it doesn't do anything, it's such a serious claim that it can't stay standing. I would like to remind the representative Giltun that it has not been long since we dealt with the care message, where this issue was carefully discussed. So I feel it was important to point out that that kind of statement gets in front of Giltun's vision, and I actually don't think it's shared by anyone else in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1128	I'm recording that the representative of the Skjellaa became very engaged and angry here, and that's how attack is the best defense. There was no other defence I heard to vote no to the proposal of the Progress Party. I also take the opportunity to address the proposal in the case, because I forgot that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1135	The representative of Vigdis Giltun has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1138	I find it strange that Giltun's representative is conducting a psychological analysis of my reactions. I react when I am provoked by the kind of statements the representative makes. I would like to remind you that we have dealt with the Storing message about the care of the elderly. We have agreed on quality improvements in a number of areas, which the Government will follow up on in the future. We discussed in-depth use of certificates, and the Government has a review to look at the impact of certification use in this sector and other sectors. So to say that the government doesn't care or implement measures at all to protect the elderly from abuse, it's so unreasonable that it shouldn't be said from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1145	Vigdis Giltun has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1148	It is possible that the Kärlaa has misunderstood what this matter is about. It is, in fact, a matter of requiring a certificate of good conduct from those who are to be nurses or health professionals for elderly or elderly sick people. It's not about everything in general in society. I think it is very sad that the Schjälaa did not take the opportunity to tell me why he believes it is right that such a certificate should be required of those who work with children and those with disabilities, but that it is not necessary for those who work with the type of elderly mentioned in the case. It would have been in place to explain, not to make a lot of other attacks based on what was understood by what was said in the pulpit--or misunderstood.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1156	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2426]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1171	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no opportunity for a replacement of lines, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1178	Over the past few weeks, we have discussed the situation in hospitals on a number of occasions. The overall objective of hospitals is to provide good quality treatment. And quality can be measured through quality indicators. The Committee agrees that these must be valid, reliable and usable. Collection and reporting in hospitals on quality is resource-intensive, and it is therefore important that it is not reported in areas that do not affect quality. The proposers propose that quality indicators be developed in hospitals and that these should form the basis for the choice of hospitals in the free choice of hospitals, in addition to waiting time. The individual patient may, once an investigation and treatment is planned, choose the hospital in which it is to take place, as long as the hospital has an agreement with a regional health establishment. Both quality and waiting time will be essential for such a choice. Work is being done by the National Knowledge Centre for Health to sum up knowledge on the use of quality indicators. Quality indicators can contribute to the transparency of the professional standard and achievement of performance of hospital services. The Committee would point out that it does so per year. Today, 11 quality indicators have been developed for somatic hospitals, among others. deletions of planned operations, individual plans for child habilitation, epicrisis time, cesarean and corridor Asiatic frequency. In addition, ten quality indicators for mental health protection have been developed. The Committee shares the views of the proposers on the need to improve the free choice of hospitals, including: through reliable, valid and useable quality and real waiting indicators. According to the majority of the Committee, the Government is expanding the number of indicators and the free hospital choice website will be relaunched in spring 2008. The aim of the relaunch is to make the website even more user-friendly for patients and family members who will choose hospitals. The majority believe that this will help to facilitate the identification of the national quality indicators and will be shown in a way that makes it possible to compare hospitals. Indicators showing the number of treatments carried out by the hospital will be launched for selected services. In the long term, the number of applications must be reported for all services for which waiting times are presented. The National Health Care Knowledge Centre and the Social and Health Directorate are working on a project that aims to have mortality indicators for heart attacks, strokes, hip fractures, total mortality and low-expected mortality in operation during the first quarter of 2009. The majority believe, in the context of what has been pointed out here, that the intention of the proposers is well respected through the process already under way by the Government, and therefore proposes that the document be annexed to the Protocol. The minority in the Committee sees the need to intensify work on developing quality indicators to enable patients to choose hospitals to make their choice on the basis of the quality of treatment provision. The minority therefore supports proposals for the development of several quality indicators in the specialist health service. These indicators shall be published so that patients have a basis for choosing hospitals on the basis of quality in addition to the current waiting schedule. I will take up the proposal from the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1201	The representative of Laila Bavøy has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1204	Initially, I think I could have joined all the case rapporteurs said. The Committee very much agrees with all the broad lines put here. However, the principle that everyone should be entitled to equivalent health services wherever they live in the country does not mean that health services are similar throughout the country. And that's a challenge for all of us. By virtue of the right to free hospital choice, the individual patient may be free to choose the hospital in which it is to take place when an investigation and treatment are planned, as long as the hospital is owned by or has entered into an agreement with a regional health establishment. In the context of the planned investigation and treatment, the patient’s determination shall provide information on the possibility to choose a hospital and, if necessary, to guide the patient and recommend which treatment institution he/she considers most appropriate, assessed according to the patient’s situation. One important factor in choosing a hospital is the quality of the investigation and treatment. We must never forget that. Quality can be measured through quality indicators, but not separately. It is essential that indicators are valid, reliable and applicable in many areas. Collection and reporting to hospitals on quality is resource-intensive. That's why I think it's important that we don't spend undue time collecting data in areas where we can't actually follow up at a later stage. Today there are 11 indicators for somatic hospitals and 10 indicators for mental health protection. These are somewhat controversial and controversial, especially in the area of mental health protection. The Committee shares the rapporteur's view that the free choice of hospitals needs to be improved, including: through reliable, valid and useable quality and real waiting indicators. The year-on-year survey carried out in 2002 points to that part, but it also points out that those who are well educated and resource-intensive go far more into and choose hospitals than those who have lower education or are less resource-intensive in other areas. Efforts must be made to ensure that the free choice of hospitals is accessible to all, so as not to create major social health differences. Nor should we forget that very many people are hospitalized for immediate help, either in the case of acute illness or in the case of injuries and accidents. Then you cannot choose which hospital to enter. This is why both the quality of hospitals and the quality of healthcare throughout the country are very important, so that there are no major differences. Because it is not just through guidance and planned treatment that it takes place. The government is expanding the number of indicators. In this respect, I would like to point out that the free hospital choice website will be relaunched in spring 2008. The aim of this relaunch is to make the website even more user-friendly for patients and relatives. It's an important job, as the government has already started. The government is continuously working to establish several national medical quality records. Regional health enterprises were required in 2005 and 2006 to establish one national quality register each. There are already several good medical quality records, including: Articulated Prosthesis and Endarm Cancer Register. The Norwegian patient registry will be an important tool for obtaining information on the quality of hospital patient care. The purpose of the register has been extended so that the register can be used for medical and health research. In addition, they shall form the basis for disease and quality records. Optimum data on waiting times are continuously being worked on. In the mission document of the regional health enterprises, the proportion of waiting times is introduced as a management variable. During 2009, there is an objective to present historical waiting times. These waiting times will provide a better information base for patients when choosing hospitals, and will be a corrective factor for hospitals themselves. Norway currently has too few indicators showing the results of different treatments and healthcare, but the indicators assumed to be relevant for patients in their choice of hospitals are presented to users as ‘Pekepin on Quality’. For the time being, these indicators include deletions from the planned operation, the number of Corridor Asians, the proportion of selected individual diagnostics in the field of mental health protection for children and young people, the duration of untreated psychosis in the field of mental health protection for children and young people and the patient experience studies. We support the addition of this document to the protocol, as proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1234	It is gratifying that the government parties share our view that the free choice of hospitals needs to be improved, for example. through reliable, valid and useable quality and real waiting indicators. But there is little progress in the government's work. They talk after one line and act after another. We all know that there are differences in the quality of hospitals. In order to really talk about free hospital choice, patients need to have a basis on which to choose. The publication of real quality indicators will lead to the improvement of less good supply. The important thing must be to ensure that everyone receives an equivalent offer and is guaranteed equal treatment. Quality information must then be comprehensive and easily accessible to the public. Today’s quality indicators do not have satisfactory quality, nor are they sufficiently organised to provide a good basis for choosing a hospital. The research team believes that if a patient is to benefit from the free hospital choice system, it is necessary to provide him with real and good information on what to choose from. We believe that the system of free hospital choice today works in a slightly satisfactory way. Waiting time as the only indicator is not satisfactory, and especially when the waiting times reported in free hospital choice.no are not correct. The Progress Party believes that work should be initiated immediately with a view to incorporating more requested quality indicators that should be publicly available to all and to assist all patients. The Progress Party believes that the quality indicators should primarily reflect the needs of patients in the choice of hospitals, and not the health business’s need for overall management and quality improvement of hospitals, as stated by the Government Parties. Quality indicators must have a primary focus on meeting the needs of patients in the choice of hospitals. Quality indicators must be designed to facilitate patients’ free choice of hospitals by quality. There is a great need for this work to be intensified. It's sad that the government parties don't have the same sense of necessity. The statement refers to Director Åge Danielsen's statement on the Rikshospitalet website on 11 January of this year: ‘Quality will be an important choice factor for patients if they are given the opportunity. Patients will and have the right to know the truth. Therefore, it is necessary that we present all data in a proper way, and not just present the solar pages." There is too little open discussion about the quality of services. There is little discussion about what are the success criteria for good treatment. And there's little discussion about what results we achieve and get out of the resources we put into the sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1261	Knowledge is power. By providing patients with more information about different healthcare services, we transfer power from system to healthcare patients. It's always the way some patients know something. But through quality indicators, we make sure that all patients are told. When patients have knowledge of the quality of healthcare, they can also make qualified choices of healthcare. This transparency also provides the basis for any necessary improvements to the offer. The right has always fought for transparency and transparency in public services. The co-operation administration developed 18 quality indicators for the health sector during its time of government. However, since the government shift, it seems that this work has almost stopped, for in two and a half years, only three new indicators have been developed. Therefore, the right fully supports the intention of the Progress Party proposal to step up efforts to develop new quality indicators for Norwegian hospitals. It is important to develop quality indicators that give a proper picture of health services. Such indicators will always represent a form of simplification which, in the worst case, may be misleading. It may be tempting to distribute smileys or stars to hospitals, but this may also be a form of tabloid simplification that obscures more than it reveals. Quality indicators should both reflect patient experience and measure medical quality by established standards of good treatment. At the same time, indicators should measure the quality of service over time and across service levels. In addition to providing important information to patients, the quality indicators also represent an important factor in hospital quality development. A study carried out by Professor Peter Hjort on behalf of the Social and Health Directorate shows that so-called adverse health incidents annually lead to 2,000 deaths and 15,000 permanently injured patients. It is enormous, and the cost is estimated at approx. NOK 2 billion. It has been claimed that the safety work in Norwegian hospitals is at the same level as in aviation in the 1950s. Medical errors have a high price for patients who experience poor health and quality of life, while at the same time costing society. The Co-operation Board proposed the establishment of medical quality records in all medical disciplines. Such quality records may measure the outcome of treatment, procedures and measures in relation to patients. In particular, the quality registers will be able to identify whether the services are safe and effective. I would like to ask the Council of State to make sure that this work is being carried out too fully. There is a lot of focus on economics and organisational frameworks in healthcare. It is now time for the health policy search to focus on the content and quality of healthcare. Time is hardly in sight for new major reorganisations, we hope it will not be necessary to correct the governance problems we see today. If we are to address new health reforms, it must be a quality reform. We need to ensure that not only resource use, but also the medical-professional offer in Norwegian hospitals are at the top of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1274	The left is on the minority proposal. But I think I would say that the quality of treatment may not necessarily be better with many quality indicators. It's like when we're going to make indicators, we need some data. And I hope I don't go beyond the limits of the parliamentary language, but in English, it's called "hit in, shit out," and that means that if we have bad data in, it's bad what comes out. When it comes to articles about quality, thousands of articles about quality are published annually, around the subject magazine and top journal internationally. But it also does that in tabloid presses, and there we have a challenge, too much of what we read in tabloid presses, I'm going to say is bad thinking, and then we get misleading stories about facts, which I think it might be scary to leave undisputed. So here I think the authorities have to be on guard against what's being presented in what I'd call tabloids, and I'd like to bring some leaflets in the same length. It's right to focus on quality, and we need quality indicators. But we have to get serious at the bottom, we have to get research at the bottom of the quality indicators that we're going to use, so that they're trustworthy, and then at the same time they have to be understandable to most people. Otherwise we won't get what we want, a tool to measure what quality is, and which can be used by the users, who are the people.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1281	The President would say that either this is said in English or Norwegian, it is well on the edge of what is a parliamentary correct expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1284	Patients in need of hospital care should have a genuine opportunity to choose from which hospital they will receive treatment. Therefore, it is important that hospitals report up-to-date waiting times all the time, and that we develop quality indicators that provide patients with the basis to choose the hospital that has the best quality of treatment. The government has developed a national system for measuring and presenting national quality indicators. The aim is to enable patients to compare the offer of one hospital with the offer of another. All the indicators in this system are, as has been said here, published on the free choice of hospitals website. But this needs to be strengthened and further developed, and I will come back to that, because I fully share the Committee's view that the free choice of hospitals needs to be improved. Among other things, we need reliable, valid and useful indicators of quality and real waiting time, and we have to - and I agree - have transparency about the medical standards and results of hospitals. Users must be given increased opportunities for free choice of hospitals, so that they are also provided with wide information in different hospitals. The free choice of hospitals must be made available to all. It should not be the case that we have schemes that create social differences, for example: is still a part that does not use the Internet with us. In a short time, I will receive an evaluation of the patient aid project in Hedmark. The preliminary feedback is that the waiting time for treatment has fallen sharply. In this scheme, citizens receive help from municipalities to take advantage of the rights they have to receive rapid health care. The evaluation shall include, inter alia: indicate whether this scheme should be nationwide. Health West created last year a patient assistant that can be contacted on a free phone number. This patient assistant takes care of all the practical things that need to be done when the patient wants to switch to another hospital. Even now, the pilot project shows that the population needs more information about their rights and what offers are actually available. My ambition is to get a place that everyone can call, and in addition, the Free Hospital Choice website will become more user-friendly and informative. Therefore, during the spring, the free choice of hospitals website, as mentioned above, should be launched in a new and better version. National quality indicators shall be easier to identify and it shall be possible to compare hospitals with each other. For some selected services, data will be provided on the number of hospital treatments performed. In the longer term, figures on the number of treatments should be provided for all services where waiting times are specified. The proposers point out that the waiting times given on this website often do not match the actual waiting time. This problem has to be solved. I have therefore asked and asked regional health companies to indicate the proportion of waiting times they have updated in the last four weeks. Today, as is known, the expected waiting time for various services provided on the website is based on individual hospital estimates. During 2009, we will present historical waiting times, i.e. how the actual waiting time for different services has evolved over a given period. Such an overview will provide patients with a better basis for choosing hospitals. It will also act as a corrective measure for hospitals and stimulate better quality of supply. So we're going on. We have too few indicators in Norway today to show the results of treatment and healthcare, and the National Knowledge Centre for Health and Social and Health Directorates are now working, among others. with a project where mortality from myocardial infarction, stroke and hip fractures is to be used as quality indicators. This shall be operational during the first quarter of 2009. It is also clear that Storting’s decision to establish a Norwegian patient register as a person-identifiable register has made this register an important tool for obtaining quality information. The register may also be used for medical and health research, as well as for disease and quality records, as known by strict criteria. In other words, this is a very tool to get on the road to offering better quality, giving patients the opportunity to choose on the right basis and get faster help in our hospital, in our healthcare system.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1303	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2427]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1318	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no opportunity for a replacement of lines, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1325	Proposals by proposers have proposed measures to ensure faster health care and to reduce sick leave. Today, there are more than 300,000 people who are recipients of disability pension and temporary unpaid pay in Norway, and during the last 10 years there has been a strong increase. By means of the IA Agreement, the authorities have undertaken to increase their treatment capacity in order to reduce long-term sick leave. Proper use of resources is an important prerequisite for getting people healthy and back to work, the rapid deployment of the necessary measures, and not least the use of available health services. As the proposalers from the Right, with the support of the Advance Party, underline, it is precisely here that the shoe prints. While patients are waiting for help, private practitioners and institutions have free capacity that is not being used. If the patient wishes to receive a publicly funded treatment offer in the specialist healthcare service, there must be an agreement between the regional health company and the institutional specialist. Should be self-practitioner, such as physical therapists or midwives, providing health services fully or in part provided by the municipality and the public interest, must also be subject to agreements here. The Progress Party and the Right consider that today’s requirements for such agreements should be terminated in order to ensure that patients can have better access to the necessary healthcare. It is underlined that public funds should be used to cover necessary healthcare in line with the Patient Rights Act and the priority regulation. The Party of Advancement and the Right is of the opinion that today’s system does not provide information on the free capacity of private health establishments, so that patients can be more easily informed about current treatment options. In short, it can be mentioned that the government parties largely agree that today’s system is reasonably good and works well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1342	The representative Fredriksen's conclusion on what we had to believe in that matter was very simple, in my opinion. We are well aware that every day there are 120 000 people in Norway who are sick. It's a serious problem, of course most for those involved, but it's also a challenge for society. In this way, it should be lacking that the whole Committee does not share the concerns of those who are sick and of the number of people who have become ill in recent years. Any action that can get more people to work, in whole or in part, is a great victory for people's quality of life. It is quite clear that targeted measures are the only dangerous route. The government has really focused on getting sick workers back to work. In 2007, there were in fact 10,000 sick workers who received a treatment offer through the ‘Retreaters’ scheme. In December of that year, the number of referrals increased by 2,500 people. Most of them were referred to the specialist health service, and some were referred to the right to work rehabilitation, as stated in our remarks in the settings. We think it is good that the ‘retreaters back’ treatment offer will be stepped up in 2008, as one of the means of reducing sick leave. In 2007, 604 million were allocated. NOK 742 million is allocated for 2008. kr. That's a lot of money. But the point is not to boast about how much money we spend, the most important thing is that we can enjoy that this money actually gives good results for a number of people, and they do. It has been expressed that ‘Responders’ have been too little known among employees. That is why there is an important work now being done by the Directorate of Social and Health and by the Directorate of Labour and Welfare. We believe that it will strengthen the good results. The largest group of ill-reported workers is severely affected by musculoskeletal disorders. They've hurt their necks, shoulders, back and knees. Very many of these are women. We believe that special attention should be paid to this group of patients. Together with the rest of the Committee, we are concerned that the tools in the NAV system for rehabilitation and rehabilitation need to be developed further. Then we think it might be even better and even more targeted. Of course, it is worrying that waiting time is too long for people with musculoskeletal disorders, and for those people who have mental problems. Reduced waiting time will result in both sick leave and disability rates. We have faith that you can play on layers to achieve the most effect possible. That is why, together with the majority, we have considered that it is important to focus on rehabilitation and rehabilitation both in the community health service and in health companies, regardless of the group. Then I will draw attention to proposal No. 2, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. In the case of the test scheme relating to the right of psychologists to health care, it is assessed, not in the Ministry of Health, but in the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1368	Today, more than a quarter of the Nordics are out of working life. In 1997, the number of unsatisfied persons had increased sharply, and it is now about 320,000 people receiving this benefit. Behind each of these numbers is a human being -- a destiny -- who experiences that working life no longer has room for him or her. It is a tragedy for those who experience being pushed out of work, losing contact with colleagues at work and an important opportunity for development and self-realization. In addition to the human dimension, the high proportion of insured persons in Norway represents one of the main challenges for the country in the future. If development continues, we will not have a sustainable welfare society. This will, in particular, affect the most disadvantaged, which depend entirely on public support schemes. The intention of the Right’s proposal is to contribute powerful measures to give more people an opportunity to work rather than to receive social security. It's a fact that the longer you're sick, the less likely you're to get back to work. In 2006, more than 100,000 yearly jobs disappeared due to sick leave. This is a sorely intrusive labour force. Despite a significant increase in hospital activity after the health reform, many patients still experience that there is too long waiting time for treatment. Figures from the Norwegian Patient Register on 28 February this year show that the waiting time for health care in specialist healthcare is increasing both in mental health protection for adults and in somatic medicine. In the right, it is essential that those who are sick and need treatment receive health care more quickly than at present. It makes no sense for people to receive social security benefits pending treatment when private operators have free capacity to treat them. One of the main reasons that so many people get disability benefit is that they suffer from muscle and skeletal disorders. This particularly affects women. Women’s health should be one of the areas of activity of the Government, but what is the reason for this, for example. Jeløi Kurbad, who performs the professionally recognized treatment of these women, must cut down on his offers? The only reason I can make sure that private people don't get to a greater extent is that the government has ideological opposition to private actors. Psychiatric disorders alone lead to approx. 19 000 annual works disappear in sick leave, according to figures from the Stortingen Investigations Section. Why are these people not to receive rapid health care from private practitioners with free capacity? As early as November 2006, I asked Brustad this question, and she replied that she had not measured the amount of available capacity in this sector. In a letter to the Committee on the matter in question, Brustad replied that she did not yet know whether more people could get help from the private sector. And while Brustad rides his ideological chauffeurs, the waiting time for people with mental disorders -- it shows the latest figures -- increases except for those who have a good economy, who can buy expensive health services privately. The paradox of a socialist health policy is that it creates a classed healthcare service. The proposal includes the right to create an information service that provides an overview of the free capacity of private healthcare. The aim is to identify where patients waiting for treatment can receive faster health care. Furthermore, we are in favour of measures to ensure that private actors can also contribute to the treatment of patients who need it the most and that there is a coordinated system of admission to such businesses. The Ministry has asked regional health businesses to implement the latter, and we ask the Council of State to ensure that this is done quickly. Today’s requirement for agreements with municipalities or healthcare companies is one of the reasons why individuals have free capacity, while patients are waiting for public treatment. On the right, we would stress that public funds should be used to provide the necessary healthcare in line with the Patient Rights Act and the priority regulation. It is necessary to establish mechanisms to ensure that there is a real need for the patient for the necessary healthcare that is essential for the treatment offered. The provision of publicly funded health services must not be based on commercial or economic motives for the provider of health care, whether in the case of private or public health providers. It is also necessary to ensure quality control and monitoring. In addition, we share the Ministry's assessment that a fair distribution of health professionals between public and private enterprises must be ensured. However, we believe that these considerations should be taken into account in a new system that does not prevent the proper use of the overall resources of healthcare. Faster health care will provide many better quality of life while at the same time contributing to reduced social security costs and increased value creation in society. I refer to the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party and the proposal from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1387	The representative Sonja Irene Sjøli has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1390	It is of great importance to get people with injury or disease back to work as quickly as possible, primarily in the interests of individuals, but also in a socio-economic perspective. There is a need for a broad focus on rehabilitation and rehabilitation for all groups in society, both in the community health services and in health enterprises, including non-profit and private training institutions. The Christian People's Party supports the concern of the proposers that idle capacity of non-profit and private health institutions is not being used, as reported by a number of stakeholders. Let me do some examples. Nord-Norges Kurbad in Tromsø has this year a total of 75 seats, original capacity is 95 seats. The Landaase Rehabilitation Centre has an agreement this year of a total of 60 places, original capacity is 80 places. Skogli Health and Rehabilitation Centres have had to reduce the number of places. Depending on the number of places that health businesses buy, institutions have to dispose of the employees that there is no room for keeping out of business and economy. This type of job therefore becomes less attractive when employment becomes unforeseeable. The knowledge and competence of institutions are also at risk under such circumstances. Unfortunately, although several institutions are experiencing higher demand right now for their services as a result of the ‘return back’ scheme, this does not increase the predictability of their operations. Among other things, future investments in buildings etc. difficult, since only a share of the total capacity of slots is purchased and the contracts are relatively short-lived. In the national strategy for rehabilitation and rehabilitation, presented last autumn, the Government states that private institutions, some run by NPISHs, are an important resource in rehabilitation work, but that their role and framework conditions need to be recognised as insufficiently clear. Provision is made for the establishment of more long-termity and predictability in the framework conditions of private enterprises. But so far there has been no visible initiative on this by the Government, and there is great concern among the institutions out there. It is very important that this work be intensified, especially for patients who do not receive treatment, but also for institutions, as these are at risk of being lost under today's conditions. In its rehabilitation strategy, the Government further states that a working group is to be set up to carry out an overall review of the purchases of services by regional health enterprises from private rehabilitation and training institutions, in order to clarify the extent to which national frameworks for tenders are to be set. It could have been good to know what the status of this work is. Finally, the Christian People's Party does not support the proposals in the document we are discussing today. The background to this is that they appear to us to be so far-reaching that we have difficulty seeing the consequences, but we still fully share the concerns of the proposers regarding measures to ensure faster health care and reduced sick leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1419	Sonja Irene Sjøli points out something very important: the big challenge is that many people are being pushed out of work because of diseases of different kinds, and she points out that too many people are being disenchanted. Some of this is due to the fact that working life is quite tough, it's demanding, and the transitions are many, so there's a lot of people who don't really do the job. When we talk about the treatment offer ‘Retreaters back’, I believe that it has been a success. When 10,000 sick workers were treated in 2007, a large number, it shows that the government’s investment in this area actually works. There are large costs saved by getting these workers back to work quickly. In December, the number of references to the formula «Rase Back» was quite high in 2,500 people, and I think we're going to see an increasing demand in the future. So we who have worked for a few years, know that there are some diseases for which there can quickly be treatment. Operating a knee, operating a shoulder is kind of not the most complicated. However, in the case of musculo-skeletal disorders, it needs to become more demanding, with longer treatment duration and longer time for rehabilitation. Not least, this also applies to people with mental disorders. I am therefore very pleased that NAV has a clear focus on this group - those who often go long-term sick and who end up with disability. It is precisely the long-term sick who cost society a great deal, and it leads to heavy burdens for individual workers to be out of work. So I think it's important to keep on betting, and even stronger, on these groups that go long-term sick, and that can't sort of fix an operation. It's far more demanding. But I think that once a few years have passed, we'll see that this was a very good and right bet. Therefore, it is also good that the Government of the State budget for 2008 has chosen to increase this item. I hope that this arrangement sits down, and that people get even better acquainted with it. It allows people to get a better life by allowing them to work longer, or by bringing those who are outside to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1430	The government has the first priority to ensure that people receive good health care in a timely manner. This means that we have taken a number of measures to treat more patients and to keep waiting times low. It was the representative, Sjøli, who had some statements that the waiting period had increased dramatically, especially in the area of mental health protection. Then I want to say that the figures are as follows: when we compare with the same tertiary in 2006, there is an increase of one day for adults in mental health protection, and there is a reduction of four days for children and young people in mental health protection. So it's natural with some fluctuations, and it's uncertain numbers. But at least there's no reason to give the impression that there's a huge increase in waiting times here. I would like to stress that I fully agree that it is important that the sick and those at risk of getting sick should receive the necessary treatment as soon as possible. As a result, the scheme ‘Retrofitting back’ was established in 2007. The goal was just to bring down the sick leave by making sure that the sick person returned to work more quickly. In 2007, 9400 people were offered through this scheme - 8500 through regional health businesses. We expect that there are significantly more that will be offered through this scheme in the current year. One important point of this scheme was that provision for investigation and treatment was to be made in the specialist healthcare service, in addition to what already existed. All regional health businesses have launched specific measures, and there are now many offers for patients covered by this scheme. As the representative Olsen and several others have been involved, a large proportion of the diseased diseases in the muscle and skeletal system. It is reflected in the ‘Rasters Back’ where nearly 80 pst. of the patients referred to have such diseases. Before Christmas, all the country’s delegates received letters containing information about contact persons, telephone numbers and referral addresses in the region. This is part of a national information campaign for which the Directorate for Social and Health and the Directorate for Labour and Welfare are responsible. Regional health establishments are specifically asked to use private suppliers where they can offer sick persons shorter waiting times than the healthcare provider can. Therefore, contracts have increasingly been concluded with private, including private, rehabilitation and training institutions. Thanks to the mission of the Employment and Welfare Act and agreements with regional health businesses, the capacity of private rehabilitation and training institutions has been well exploited in 2008. The members of the Committee from the Progress Party and the Right feel that it is regrettable that some of the funds in the ‘Ractors Back’ are transferred through the basic funding to the regional health companies – as I read the vote. To that I would say that these means are eartags « Back Back», and they cannot therefore be used for other purposes. It took some time to put in place the measures in the ‘Retreaters’, but from the autumn of 2007 demand for services in the scheme increased very rapidly. Last August, 2,460 patients were referred to regional health firms, while at the end of the year a total of 8,500 patients were referred to. A number of good treatment services have been established both for the health service and for the health service and for the welfare and labour services, which have been adapted to the needs of those who are ill. It is quite clear that when there are so many people who have muscle and skeletal disorders, it takes a little longer to get that kind of scheme in place. As representatives Olsen, Schjällaa and others have said from this pulpit, this is not very quick to deal with. There must be more multidisciplinary teams and multidisciplinary approaches. This means that one must also have other offers. And we're going to do it that way, but it's taken us a little longer. We expect the number of referrals to continue to increase sharply in the current year, and that the offer that is established in health businesses – not least through cooperation with private people – is large enough to meet the demand that is there and the one that we assume will come. To the proposal to set up a system to replace today's contract system for private service providers: I would like to remind you that there is a reason why we have a system that requires agreement between private service providers and regional health companies or municipalities for public funding of the service. The right of patients to use a private hospital is subject to an agreement between the private hospital and the regional health service. The regional health establishments are then obliged to cover the costs. Such agreements guarantee both the right price, the quality of services, efficiency, flexibility and the availability of patients. Agreements are also necessary to ensure that the offer includes priority services and patient groups and that it is well organised for cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1453	Everyone agrees that the overall objective must be to get as many sick-seekers as possible and to return to active work. If this is prevented by long waiting times in public health services, we need to look for solutions rather than getting involved in the problems. Purchases of healthcare can be an effective way to do this. If available, the current long waiting time for treatments is too expensive and completely unnecessary. The capacity of the private and non-profit actors must be used to reduce the waiting time and waiting lists. There are several factors that need to be corrected in order to integrate private and non-profit actors and to be a good complement to the public offer. Better information on the free capacity of private health establishments is very central in this context. We need to find schemes that serve patients so that they can find treatment alternatives as quickly as possible and regain a functional health status. We need to make it easy to get informed about the offers that exist. We need to facilitate both health professionals and all patient groups. Simplicity must be focused so that it is not the individual’s capacity to determine whether the relevant healthcare can be provided. Information on available and available capacity is currently too poor. The system of prioritisation and channelling patients is too complicated and too dependent on the individual’s capacity. We need to establish and ensure the quality of the relations between the public purchasers and current private suppliers and providers. With today's system, we are not able to make good use of the capacity either in public or private healthcare. It is necessary to modify the assumptions so that patients can receive significantly faster public support.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1468	I just have a brief comment on what the Council said about increased waiting time. First of all, I didn't say it was a huge increase. I was quite sober about what I was putting forward. I just referred to numbers from the Norwegian patient registry of February 28th this year, which showed that the waiting time for healthcare in the specialist healthcare system, both in the mental health system for adults and in the somatic area, is increasing. So the council says it only increases by one day. But with all the measures mentioned by the Council of State in its intervention, which are mentioned in all the other debates, including in budgetary debates, and all the increased resources that the Government and the Council of State boast that they have, should actually have a significant decline in waiting time. It seems almost as if the stanchion settles down that there is only one day increase in waiting time. I expected the ambitions to be greater than that, and that the waiting time had fallen, especially for the group in the field of mental health protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1478	I can assure the representative, Sjöli, that I have not settled either in terms of waiting times or other things within this sector. It is also the case that we are still getting more newly referred to within this sector - more coming into line because we can offer more and better offers. I would also like to say in the case of waiting times, that there have been quite stable figures since 2005, despite the fact that there have been many more patients referred to and treated. But that's in the last quarter -- compared to last year -- the third quarter of 2007, in general, is a slight increase of three days. There is one day in the field of mental health protection for adults and a reduction of four days for children and young people in the field of mental health protection. Then we're going to sail on. That's what we're working on all along, trying to provide even more quality treatment and within the shortest possible time. I also believe that we all have a responsibility not to describe the situation as worse than it is. One of the challenges is that there are major regional differences here. That's what we've purposed to do. That's why I haven't calmed down, either with this or with other things within this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1485	As the Council of State mentioned in its statement, it is precisely those with muscle and skeletal disorders that make up the largest group of people who are ill, and many of those who are unfit for work. For that group, there is too much offer today, although it is a better offer than it was before. I know that measures have been taken also in the context of chiropractor treatment, but there is now a working group, naprapaths, working with this patient group, who provide very good help to many patients who have neither received help from physiotherapists, manual therapists or chiropractors. It's individual what kind of treatment has the best effect. The Naprapatene is a group that has been waiting for authorisation for very many years. They have a licence in Sweden, an authorisation in Finland, and there is also public education. It is an approved education for Norwegian students. It would be an advantage if the good treatment services that exist could also be available to those who cannot pay with their own funds. In the case of physiotherapists and psychologists, who very many need to use, it's a very long wait. That waiting period is not due to the lack of psychologists and physiotherapists, but to the fact that there are not enough homes. It is now that those with a good economy also use the treatment services available. They pay for it themselves, but this is most likely to hit those who have normal or bad finances, and those who have to go and wait very long. In the last two years, we have seen that the purchase of health insurance has increased dramatically. It's good times for the insurance companies that sell health insurance, and that's a reason for it. It's not just that people have such good advice, because if people had confidence that they got help on time in the public health sector, there wouldn't have been a need for that kind of insurance. It also appears that a great deal of healthcare is being paid privately today. It should be a cross of thought when you see the evolution that is. I also know that there is a very long wait for diagnosis, due to waiting time for radiological studies, and that the change that happened at New Year's, may not be for the benefit of patients, but is to save money and to save that kind of research. On the part of the Hospital Østfold, it was said that the use of radiological examinations MR and CT should be restricted. It's strange that this is just mentioned in budgetary terms, where one strives to make the economy jump. I have received a phone call from those who pay themselves. It is a pity that sick people have to wait a long time before they are diagnosed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1500	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2427]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1515	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no opportunity for a replacement of lines, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1522	We are now considering a proposal for a representative to improve the situation of disadvantaged pregnant women through increased access to information, more guidance and improved financial support schemes. I would like to explain the majority's view and expect the individual parties to present their specific points of view and proposals. Proposals by the proposers promote proposals for increased one-off support for pregnant women, increased availability of prevention, improved counselling and information, better follow-up of pregnant women who have had an abortion, proposals to ensure support for counselling and assistance to disadvantaged pregnant women and, finally, a proposal to wind up their homes. An overall committee indicates that there is a cross-political consensus that it is important to prevent unwanted pregnancy and abortions. The number of abortions remains high and the Committee considers that the objective should be to reduce the number of abortions provoked. The Committee stresses that all women should be well cared for at the health service and receive good and adequate information, guidance and professional support in the event of unwanted pregnancy. With regard to the proposal for increased single-use aid for pregnant women, the Committee considers it to be of concern if women report poor economic performance as a reason for the decision on provoked abortion. The disposable birth benefit has remained unchanged since 1996, except for a price conversion in 2003. The Committee points out that the amount of the lump sum must be fixed in the ordinary budgetary procedure. With regard to the proposal for increased availability of free contraception, the Committee refers to the ‘Action Plan for the Prevention of Unwanted Pregnancy and Abortion 2004-2008’. The Committee believes that the main challenges and actions to be taken in the future to strengthen young people’s knowledge of life and sexuality will be to continue inter alia. the education programme ‘I have a choice!’, which is used in high school, in the school health service and in health centres. Furthermore, it will be important to strengthen measures that contribute to sexual security and ethical reflection in young people. The Committee considers that available and safe prevention and measures to prevent sexually transmitted diseases still need to be a focus. A majority, all parties except the Advancement Party, suggest that the distribution of free contraception to women between 16 and 19 years of age is likely to lead to a reduction in abortion rates in this age group. However, the number of abortions in the 19-24 age group has increased, and the Committee supports the Ministry's pilot project with free prevention for this age group in Hamar and in Tromsø. The Committee stresses that sufficient and good information and guidance are essential for women to make such a difficult choice as to interrupt pregnancy. The Committee refers to the action plan referred to above and ‘on the part of the Government to continue and strengthen the existing measures, if any. implement new». The Committee will highlight the important work carried out by the Amathea Foundation and, in particular, the important preventive health care clinic for sexual education, the KSO, in relation to children, young people and minorities. KSO acts in practice as a national competence centre. The Committee considers that the follow-up of women who have had abortions or who have had spontaneous abortions should be improved. Women are entitled to follow-up from the professional auxiliaries, whatever the background to the abortion. The Committee considers that hospitals need to provide better advice and guidance on and better follow-up to women who have committed an abortion or who have had spontaneous abortion, and welcomes the initiative of the Council of State to meet the relevant professional organisations, such as those involved. The Norwegian Medical Association and the Norwegian Medical Association. I want to ask that the Norwegian Earthquake Association also be included in such a meeting, because there are a lot of midwives working in this area. With regard to the proposal for home abstinence, the Committee points out that a number of post-absorbants have psychological consequences and considers it important that women be better followed up by qualified health professionals. An experimental system of drug home abortion has been implemented which has now been evaluated. On the basis of the evaluation and a positive recommendation from the Social and Health Directorate, the majority believe that women themselves must have an opportunity to choose home abortion. A minority, consisting of the Christian People's Party and the Right, believe that abortion should only occur in hospitals with available qualified personnel, where women are given adequate supervision and good follow-up, not least mentally, and are not left to themselves. Finally, I would like to address the proposals on which the Right is the co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1556	The representative Sonja Irene Sjøli has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1559	This is a matter of several issues, and I want to address some of them. There is a broad consensus that prevention of unwanted pregnancy and abortions is important. The target must be fewer provoking abortions. It is important, as the Committee notes, that women are well cared for and followed up, and that there are good, accessible arrangements for women who want to keep their baby. As regards the amount of the one-off aid, no change was proposed in the budget for 2008. I would like to refer to the letter from the Minister of Health and Health, which reveals the costs of any increase in the one-off aid. The availability of free contraception is an important measure to prevent unwanted pregnancy and is also important in protecting against sexually transmitted diseases. Knowledge and provision of prevention, as well as making young people reflective and conscious in their choices, are good prevention. Guys and girls have equal responsibility for preventing unwanted pregnancy. This is not what the Party of Advancement considered old-fashioned, that this is primarily the responsibility of the girl. When the rate of abortion is likely to be reduced due to the distribution of free contraception to women between 16 and 19 years of age, we see that the measure works. We agree that an extension of the measure to 19-24 year-olds should be considered, so that we can reduce the number of abortions in this group as well. We see that the Progress Party disagrees and does not want to participate. In this case, too, they choose to view and not look at the statistics available. Taking an abortion is not an easy matter. A study by Willy Pedersen at the University of Oslo takes several aspects of abortion. This research shows that we do not know so much about how the girls actually feel - that we have poor knowledge of vulnerability, that we have not developed good prevention programmes, and that we have poor experience of this. He says in his chronicle in the journal Research that “the woman has remained speechless and lonely” because the abortion has been treated as a purely medical act. We must take that seriously and follow up on it. I am very pleased that the Council of State has already had a meeting with Willy Pedersen on this matter. Good hospital advice and determination and follow-up are some of the measures. I think we can just get better at this. I know that the Council of State is very concerned about it. That she will continue to look at how to strengthen the offer of women, I think is good. The important work done, among others: by KSO, Sexual Education Clinic, contributes to reaching groups we do not otherwise reach. KSO guides health sisters from all over the country, and has a unique presence in Oslo. We have to make good use of that, and even better than we do today. We have to tip the big cities that have youth groups about using the same model. We also need to expand the possibilities we have for health centres for young people, as we know, in many municipalities, and use them as an important player in prevention. We want more of that because it works. The Committee disagrees with regard to this with abortion at home with medical help. The evaluation that shows that this works well and that receives a positive recommendation from the Social and Health Directorate that this should continue, we listen to it. On the basis of that evaluation, we agree that the scheme should continue. We believe that availability and information on prevention are important as prevention. We need to have transparency and good guidance, and we need to have follow-up when abortion is going to happen or has happened.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1585	There needs to be an even greater focus on information and awareness-raising, which can help more people avoid unwanted pregnancy and reduce the number of abortions. It is also important to facilitate the choice of childbirth and the choice of keeping the child even if the pregnancy was not planned. The progress party has valued the work of Amathea for all years, and believes that many abortions could have been avoided if pregnant women who were in a difficult situation had been helped to bear the child. Abortion should not be an alternative to prevention, but the Progress Party does not actually see it as a public task to pay prevention for adult women. As the representative Mandt-Bartholsen said, it is well that we in the Progress Party believe that if a woman does not want to get pregnant, she herself has a responsibility not to be, in the same way as a man who does not want to become a father, has a responsibility that he does not. However, there are several reasons why abortion rates have decreased in the 16-19 age group in recent years. In 2002, it was possible for nurses and midwives to obtain pills, which may have been very important. But the number of abortions in the teenage group has actually increased again from 2005 to 2006. In the light of the evaluation, the Progress Party will not recommend the termination of the scheme of home departures, as was said here. Today's support scheme for newly-backed parents may seem unfair, and the Progress Party sees the need for a fairer regime. There are various reasons why a person who is pregnant has not had the opportunity to earn birth allowances. It may be due to education, a home period with small children, change of job or place of residence or because of illness, to mention some reasons. Public support should be provided to all to help them avoid entering the labour market in the first year after birth. Many now report economic loss - loss of one year's income - as a reason for taking the heavy decision to commit abortion. The Progress Party believes it is right to look at how things can be improved. Today, there's a lot of talk about how dad and mom are going to distribute the paid leave period between themselves, but for many new parents, this isn't even a topic. It's a large group of mothers who haven't been working for six months before birth. The Progress Party does not believe it is right that those who work should be entitled to 80 pst. the one-year income, while others receive a lower lump sum and must apply for a contribution to the maintenance of life or start working immediately after birth. In fact, this type of discrimination appears to have a major impact on the choice of pregnant women, and also on the choice of women to have children. The Progress Party believes it would be right to increase the social benefit of those who are currently receiving one-off benefits to 2 G. Today, there are different schemes, including: in the case of single mothers, insured persons, those in rehabilitation, students, cohabitants without income and those who have acquired rights to maternity benefits during the period of leave. For the last group, the money is a substitute for lost labour income. They are taxable, distributed and paid each month during the period of parental leave. The Progress Party believes that when the lump sum is raised to nearly DK 135000, this must be distributed into a monthly taxable benefit paid in the child's first year of life and coordinated with other public social security schemes, in other words, compensation for other benefits or income in line with the parental penalties of those who have leave from a job. It will give those who have not earned their rights an opportunity to be at home instead of going out to work in the first year. The proposers of the Christian People's Party will, for unknown reasons, attach a larger amount to the birth itself. They will not coordinate the public benefits, which will lead to double the benefits. They will be paid a lump sum and a lump sum as well. This makes it difficult for the Progress Party to support. I would also like to say that I am somewhat disappointed that the rapporteurs have not thought better about it when they promote such a comprehensive proposal. It's a very good suggestion -- the idea behind the proposal is very good -- but we found it right to look at how it could be arranged so that it would be a fair and proper arrangement that made it easier for pregnant people to keep a child, even if the pregnancy was not planned, and even if they had not worked out their rights. At the same time, they could not apply for social benefits or have other types of social security schemes in order to be able to manage financially if they kept the child. I refer to the motion for a resolution by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1608	The representative of Vigdis Giltun has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1611	It is widely agreed that it is important to prevent unwanted pregnancies. There is also a cross-political consensus on reducing the number of abortions. Norwegian women have been entitled to self-determined abortion for 30 years. The question is whether society gives pregnant women who are in a difficult situation the real opportunity to make a well-considered choice. Abortion is still taboo. The greater the need to look at the rights of women in a situation where this appears to be the only solution. In Oslo, every other pregnant woman under the age of 25 is having an abortion. On a national basis, between 14000 and 15000 provocative abortions are carried out each year. It's not about a small or uniform group of women or couples who choose abortion. Nevertheless, many of the reasons why you choose to end a pregnancy coincide. Many highlight financial insecurity, pressure from grandchildren or other families, and lack of information as serious grounds for choosing abortion. From a woman's point of view, abortion is more than the right to a choice. In fact, a large proportion of those who have an abortion experience serious aftereffects. Studies from Sweden show that half of those who have an abortion go through emotional reactions in retrospect. In a doctoral thesis from the University of Oslo, superior and specialist in psychiatry Anne Nordal Broen states that one in five women struggle with mental aftereffects after a provoked abortion. Sociologist Willy Pedersen has shown that women who have had an abortion have a higher risk of drug abuse than others. It's important that these women get help. We want women to be better informed about the aftereffects of abortion and to have real opportunities for specialised help. When we have knowledge that abortion can cause emotional reactions in retrospect, the Christian People's Party, like the Right, believes that offering abortion should only happen in hospitals with the available qualified personnel, so that the woman is not left to herself. Just research on the aftereffects - as I pointed out earlier, and as the representative of the Workers' Party also spoke about, which shows that women have many traumas - suggests that abortion should occur in hospitals. Self-determined abortion is the only real right that a disadvantaged pregnant woman has today. The community gives the woman the choice and responsibility. It is therefore necessary to provide better counselling and information for pregnant women with a focus on rights, support schemes and possible mental and physical consequences, as we are now proposing. For some people, this could be a real alternative to abortion. In a situation where pregnancy was not planned, it has been shown that the economic situation can be decisive if you choose to keep the child. The Christian People's Party therefore proposes to extend the one-off grant from today's 33 584 kroner to 2 Gs, i.e. NOK 133,624. This will contribute to increased financial security for women who have not earned birth benefit. At least I can reassure the representative of the Progress Party that we will find good arrangements for this if we once get a majority for the good proposal we have here. The Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) has noted that the Council of States has met in a positive way the proposed measures contained in the proposal for a representative and looks forward to the follow-up indicated. I hope that the Council of State in its work on revising the Action Plan on the prevention of unwanted pregnancy and abortion will also involve researchers with good competence in this area, for example. the two I have already mentioned. I am convinced that these can provide valuable input both in terms of actions, but not least in terms of research needs in the future. I'm taking up suggestions from minorities insofar as they're not taken up before.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1632	The representative of Laila Bavøy has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1635	I think everyone agrees that the number of abortions is too high. It is therefore important to take action to prevent unwanted pregnancy. Then a good sexual education is crucial for young people, both at school, at leisure clubs and elsewhere. The availability of safe and good contraception is important. As a man, I also believe it is important to stress men's responsibility to use contraception, in order to be able to participate in and prevent unwanted pregnancy in addition to sexually transmitted diseases. The centre party will also point to the personal responsibility of individuals for their own conduct and lifestyle in preventing unwanted pregnancy and also sexually transmitted diseases. The centre party believes it is important to stress that this is also the man's responsibility. Making an abortion decision must be a very difficult choice. Therefore, it is essential for the woman to receive good and sufficient information on both physical and mental responses following an abortion. It is important for society to have mechanisms that enable women who have become unwanted to become pregnant to also be helped to provide the child. The follow-up of women who have chosen to have abortions or spontaneous abortions needs to be improved, says the Committee as a whole. Furthermore, the Committee notes that it is pleased that the Council of State has taken initiatives towards the Nurses' Association and the Medical Association to discuss how follow-up can be improved. Then again, I would like to refer to the representative, Mr. Sjeli's post, where she stresses that the Earth Mortgage Association is actually important to include in this context. I would also like to stress that. The action plan for the prevention of unwanted pregnancy and abortion expires in the current year. I am very pleased that a joint committee emphasises that this action plan must both be continued and strengthened so that the objective of improving the success of women who have committed abortion, and not least that the goal of reducing unwanted pregnancy, can be achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1646	Providing good general welfare arrangements for families with children is the most important thing we can do for all pregnant women, regardless of the situation of life - that is, primarily maternity leave and maternity allowance, child welfare and kindergarten, as we see it. In addition to such general schemes, we have, as we know, our own social benefits for lone dependants, for example: transitional and extra child-restraint. The government is concerned that we should further develop and strengthen the welfare systems of families with children. The great effort to expand kindergartens in recent years is just one example of that. The proposal by the representatives of Davøy, Molvær Grimstad and Ropstad to escalate the one-off allowance for pregnant women who have not earned their birth grant will amount to a further cost of about DKK 1.5 billion. This is a high cost that needs to be assessed against other proposals in order to improve the situation, inter alia. for families with children. As you know, the government has not proposed an increase in this benefit for 2008. Disbursements to lump sums will amount to 420 million this year. kr. With regard to the proposals of the representatives on trial projects with free prevention, measures for better information and advice and measures to strengthen the support apparatus in case of post-abort effects, I can inform you about the following: SINTEF Health has been commissioned to carry out a trial project with free pills for women between 20 and 24 years of age. The test shall be carried out in Tromsø and in Hamar. In the 2004-2008 action plan on the prevention of unwanted pregnancy and abortion, there are a number of measures to strengthen the information and guidance provision of women assessing abortion. The action plan also contains information and guidance measures for groups with special needs, such as: minority women, disabled people and vulnerable youth groups. The transitional aid rules shall ensure income for lone dependants. It is this group that is the most difficult in economic terms. In the next week, as several have said, we have invited the Medical Association and the Nursing Association to a meeting on how we can strengthen the offer of women who experience psychological reactions after an abortion. I think it's a good idea, which came from several speakers, to invite the Earthmothers' Association as well. Work on the prevention of unwanted pregnancy and abortion shall continue to be carried out on a sea level beyond 2008. In this context, I will pay great attention to how the information and guidance provision can be improved. The representatives also propose to withdraw the offer to carry out medical abortions at home by means of drugs. As you know, the Social and Health Directorate has assessed the experience of such abortions. They conclude that this is a good medical offer for women who want it. I have noticed that the majority of the committee believes that women have to be given the opportunity to choose whether they want such an abortion. I'll take that with me. I can inform you that the matter is now being dealt with in my department.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1681	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1684	I would like to say a few words about parental care. I will use an example to explain why I am concerned about this: A young woman, newly educated, newlywed and newly established, has begun her first permanent job. After a while she feels very bad, and the doctor finds that she has had cancer. She goes through a long fight to survive. Then she gets pregnant, and this wasn't entirely planned. She was tired after her long treatment period and was not quite ready for this. But they thought they had got a gift they couldn't say no to, so they choose to keep the child. Rehabilitation money makes her live on two thirds of her salary, and they're worried about the economy. Then she seeks custody. Then they get shock. In fact, she does not have a right to parental leave because rehabilitation money doesn't give it. Our new children's and gender equality minister, Anniken Huitfeldt, has been very concerned that Mom needs time to get after her pregnancy. Mother needs time to get after birth, and she needs time to be allowed to breast-feed. It does not apply to mothers who have had cancer. They must start working immediately after birth. Therefore, it is frustrating to hear the discussion, especially of the government parties, on how to distribute parental leave and how to strengthen the rights. They are committed to strengthening the rights of those who already have a right, but are therefore not at all interested in granting rights to those who do not have it today. That is why they are voting against the proposals of the Progress Party and of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1695	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2427]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1703	The size shall then be added to the case No. 1-6.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1711	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, from Jon Hunter Gåsvatn on behalf of the Advance Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposals No. 5 and 6, by Jon Jäger Gåsvatn on behalf of the Party of Advancement First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 5 and 6 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that a national overview of the various study facilities available is drawn up, which allows for the monitoring of developments over time.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the liquidation of the normal distribution principle and to move to objective criteria for higher education characterisation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1742	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2-4 from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget on the issue of how the education perspective is maintained in Norwegian higher education in the light of the implementation of the Quality Reform and the adaptations related to the Bologna process.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to review the categorisation of the various higher education programmes in order to ensure that the individual subjects are properly placed.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to monitor the time spent by researchers on administrative and administrative arrangements.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1769	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to consider the introduction of external sensor requirements for all higher education.’ Here, the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre have announced that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1798	In the course of the debate, 13 proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Gunvald Ludvigsen on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 2, by Gunvald Ludvigsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 3, by Gunvald Ludvigsen, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Left, proposals No. 4-12, by Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on 13, from Gunvald Ludwigsen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposal No. 13, from the Christian People's Party and the Left, has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal then reads as amended: ‘It is recommended that the Government ensure that persons with severe mental illness and those with drug problems are entitled to publicly funded dental services, irrespective of residence at the institution or benefits from home health care.’ The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. - It is deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5, 6 and 7 of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that patients with particularly high dental costs related to disease and treatment in the oral cavity are included in the self-participation 2 scheme.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for a sample to assess whether new diagnostic groups should be included in screening scheme 2 related to expenditure on particularly high dental services.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: «The government requests the Government to make proposals which include sole persons with income equal to or less than the minimum pension in force at all times and persons in households with a total income below 2G, in the self-employment benefit scheme 2.» The left has announced that they want to support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1855	There is a vote on proposal No. 4 and proposals Nos. 8-12, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that caregivers in institutions, receiving home services, mental - health psyches and other groups with public dental rights, are given an unconditional right to dental care.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a proposal to grant sufficient funds to enable dental practitioners to undertake specialist training without having to be in a full position in addition to having a living income.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to draw up and promote proposals for a stepping-up plan relating to the training capacity of dental staff, with a view to meeting the future challenges of recruiting sufficient staff.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate access for researchers and educational staff to the regular use of university clinics for the time they have not been used for other purposes.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The ruling asks the Government to determine the possibility of imposing the right of reimbursement for dental nurses with an upper roof.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to introduce a mandatory dental check at the first year of school.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1898	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote a stepping-up plan for the introduction of public funding for dental care.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1913	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate free dental treatment for all elderly people with disabilities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1928	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate the investigation of a simpler recognition system on a professional basis for foreign dental practitioners wishing to establish themselves in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1969	During the debate, Mr Giltun put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to start work on the requirement of proof of good conduct for those working in the care sector and to promote this matter for the Storting as quickly as possible. The following elements are requested to be included in the certificate of good conduct: violent crimes, drug crimes, sexual crimes and serious financial crime.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e1996	During the debate Laila Davøy has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to develop several quality indicators in the specialist health service. These indicators shall be published in such a way that patients have a basis for selecting hospitals on the basis of quality, in addition to the current waiting period scheme.’;» This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e2023	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Sonja Irene Sjøli, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 2, from Sonja Irene Sjøli on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left The proposal from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left is the first to be voted on. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to present a statement of progress in assessing psychologists’ health care rights.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e2047	The proposal of the Progress Party and the Right reads as follows: ‘The decision requests the Government 1. develop as soon as possible an information offer with an overview of available capacity in approved private health establishments. 2. propose arrangements to ensure the proper prioritisation of patients in private health establishments and a referral system which does not depend on personal applications for individual private health activities. 3. propose arrangements for referral, quality assurance and supervision replacing current requirements for agreements with regional health establishments for private contract specialists and other private health establishments in order to enable them to provide publicly funded health services. 4. propose quality assurance and oversight arrangements replacing current requirements for agreements with municipalities as a condition for private-practice authorised providers to provide publicly funded health services.’;» This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e2088	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Sonja Irene Sjøli on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 4, by Mr Giltun, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 5, by Sonja Irene Sjøli on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 6, from Laila Bavøy on behalf of the Christian People's Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the granting of pregnant women with no birth grant rights related to employment, to improve financial conditions by stepping up the single payment for pregnant women to 2 G.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e2118	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to ensure that home residents cease to exist.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e2133	There is a vote on proposal No. 4th from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for a new 2G aid scheme that can replace the single-use benefit of the day at birth and is paid in the first year of life of the child. The benefit must be coordinated with other public social security schemes during the period during which it is paid.»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e2148	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1-3, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian Party and Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals to introduce improved advice and information for pregnant women with a focus on information on pregnancy rights, support schemes and possible physical and mental consequences.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to strengthen the support apparatus for women who have been through an abortion by providing more information related to the aftereffects of the abortion and where special assistance can be obtained.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure increased support for counselling and assistance to disadvantaged pregnant women.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-07.ana.ud2531e2222	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
