ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e22	The representative, Bent Höie, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e25	On behalf of the representatives of Kari Lise Holmberg, Elisabeth Aspaker, Inge Wohnning, Trond Helleland, Olemic Thommessen, André Oktay Dahl and myself, I will make a proposal to strengthen privacy and ensure the proper management of personal sensitive information.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e30	The representative of Kåre Fostervold will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e33	On behalf of the representatives of Øyvind Korsberg, Per Sandberg, Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal for the preparation of my own travel life message to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e38	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e64	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Tora Aasland State Council Anne-Grete Ström-Erichsen State Council Day Terje Andersen The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. AscendingSort order for mail groups We'll start with the first main questions from Per Ove Width.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e83	I have a question for the Minister of Defense, not surprising. There has been a precarious need for the replacement of our old C-130H transport aircraft for several years, not least from the Progress Party. There has been a constant mention of the lack of material, without a satisfactory answer to why things are not in order. Our background has been that it is important that Norway provides its soldiers with safe and secure evacuation and transport capacity in connection with foreign operations. We have therefore focused on the importance of operational capacities in the acquisition of transport aircraft. The government decided in 2007 to launch a so-called quick acquisition of new Hercules C-130J transport aircraft. In the government's justification for the rapid acquisition of new transport aircraft, it was claimed that this was the only way to ensure the defence of a satisfactory transport aircraft capacity as soon as possible. My question remains: when will the new transport aircraft be operational and ready to serve in war zones, for example? in Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e92	With regard to our new transport aircraft acquisition, it was a very important matter for the Government to get through, because we saw that our old C-130 aircraft, the old Hercules planes, were in a very bad condition, and they are now out of service. They weren't such that we could use them out in international operations, at least not in very many years, and very long-term upgrades. That's why we went to Stortinget last year and were happy to join in the quick acquisition of C-130J. The first plane will be delivered in October, the next plane will be delivered in March 2009, and the last two planes will be delivered something later. It is estimated that you are fully operational and have a full operational flight capacity in 2010. I want to say that if we hadn't gone to a quick acquisition, made the acquisition this way, it wouldn't have been possible for us to have a transport flight capacity. So it's also like when we acquire transport planes, there's a lot of things to learn in this context: it's the training of the entire crew, and it's logistics, but these things we're now doing. The first plane will be delivered in October.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e99	In other words, we have no transport aircraft capacity at the moment, as the Council of State expresses it. I actually thought the old planes to some extent were upgraded so that it was possible to use them, but I understand that the council thinks they are not operational. This means that we do not have operational transport aircraft for our soldiers in Afghanistan until 2010. Then you have to ask yourself, what kind of quick acquisition is this? Then we also have to ask, since the background to this was the security of the soldiers who are in Afghanistan: how are the soldiers being transported today in Afghanistan, and do the Council of State consider that they are being carried properly?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e104	In fact, I would like to remind you that before I entered the government office, the Ministry of Defence, it had not been decided to purchase new transport aircraft, although there had been various projects on it in the past. Our old planes were in a very bad condition - it was planned to upgrade some of the wings, but it would not provide any additional protection for use in, for example. Afghanistan. This has been known to the Stortinget and also to the Defence Committee in the past. I think it was very important to have something done with this, and therefore I recommended a quick purchase. There's actually no other way to get the planes fast, than the process that's now done. So the Air Force has limited capacity both to fly the old planes and to be trained on the new ones. It's the same crew that's going to go to the new ones. That's why everything has been put in place to get into the new ones, and [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e111	There will be two follow-up questions - first Odd Einar Dørum.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e114	I'm not going to go into the transport planes, even though the Left, as the Progress Party, voted against acquiring the ones we've acquired now. I'm much more concerned with what's also on the question raised by the representative Width - namely that the people we have in Afghanistan have the best possible security in what they otherwise do, and that they have the best possible mismanagement. I would like the Minister of Defence's comment and assessment here. When you meet our citizens in uniform, and I meet some of them, you meet people you can be very proud of, because they know what they're doing, and what they're going to be busy about. When I last met one of them, he was typically Norwegian concerned that the civil effort should be good. He wasn't talking about his own case, but about the fact that civil society has to be very good, so that what we're fighting for is going to be important. When people are so good and so real, they also deserve to have the best equipment possible. There has been talk of a vehicle also in relation to the aeroplanes that have been taken up. I would like to have the Minister of Defense's assurance that what is going on is now done, so that our people in the field will have the best possible equipment to do the job they're set to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e123	I fully agree with the representative Dørum that our soldiers in Afghanistan, who do a very important job on behalf of the international community and on behalf of Norway, deserve the best equipment we can give them. We are also concerned about that every day, so we have a very high focus on the equipment. To the opening question, I would like to remind you that this is also why I went to the Stortinget to ask for a decision to go to the rapid acquisition of aircraft, which is a very important military capacity, and which Norway has not been able to contribute in Afghanistan. In the case of soldiers' rule, even though they are very well equipped today, there is constantly the development of new equipment, and we want to renew that equipment all the time. There is considerable wear and tear on equipment in Afghanistan, and there are long delivery times, because not only Norway is experiencing this, this is true in all countries. But I can assure you that I am following the professionally military recommendations I get regarding equipment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e133	Per Roar Bredvold - to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e136	In connection with the rapid acquisition of new transport aircraft, the Department of Defence's management signaled that our old Hercules C-130H would be easy to sell. These planes were to be phased out and rephased in as soon as possible. My questions in this regard are as follows: What is the status of our old transport aircraft? How many are operational today? How many are planned to be resold, at whom and at what price? And not least, how far have you come in that process? Many of us have recovered in memory the scrapping of BV 202 by the defense and how it went. Fortunately, the Progress Party got it stopped, and I don't want anything like it when it comes to our planes. I also don't feel that we got an answer to the first question: How are our soldiers in Afghanistan being transported to airplanes today?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e145	With regard to security in Afghanistan and transport for our soldiers, I had a comprehensive briefing on this in the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee a few weeks ago. Because we don't have military aircraft in place today, our soldiers are being transported from Norway to Afghanistan on a leased-in civil aircraft, an aircraft that Denmark is also using for Afghanistan. We are now in a situation in which we are assessing – and will keep under assessment – whether that aircraft will land in a country near Afghanistan. It's not easy to get this done. As is very well known to the Defence Committee, we also have a plane that goes in Afghanistan and carries soldiers there.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e154	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e157	I have a question for the Minister of Industry. In 2005, the size of the population adopted a target of raising research in Norway to 3pst. of gross domestic product in 2010 - this is to ensure a forward-looking business that can finance public welfare and provide people with safe and viable jobs. Two thirds of this research would come from business, a sharp increase from today's level. The current government parties were eager to reach the target in 2005. Nevertheless, the government has so far had a break in research and done little to achieve this goal. Enterprises and business play an important role here. We sometimes hear from representatives of the government parties that the business community is not betting enough on research. It's true in itself, and it's an important ambition for business to increase its research effort. Therefore, in 2002, the Bondevik II government introduced the TaxFUNN scheme, which allows companies that are themselves research researchers or buy research to receive a tax deduction of up to 20 pst. of the research costs. This is limited to up to 8 million. kr per. the holding, and the proceeds in 2008 were approx. One billion kroner, which means a deduction of about $6 billion in research in business. The evaluation by the SSB shows that the tax FUNN scheme has had a clear positive effect and that it hits the broad range of enterprises. Enterprise feedback is very positive. This is a simple, unbureaucratic, predictable tax credit system that helps companies to research more. The right will therefore extend the scheme. Despite this, the government has cut off the Tax Fund for other purposes. There is currently a high pressure on expenditure on more selective measures in the field of business policy, for example: subsidies to farmers or net pay schemes for seafarers. The government parties voted against the entire tax FUNN scheme in 2002. This makes many uncertain about the future of the Tax Fund. TaxFUNN is undoubtedly an important element of innovation policy in this country. Can the Government assure us that the Government will not liquidate or further weaken the TaxFUNN scheme for business?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e168	Let me first say that, as far as the representative's description of the Government's efforts in relation to research and especially industrial research is concerned, it might be better to take the actual figures into account. After we took over, this government has increased the total research effort by 24 pst. Special efforts by the Ministry of Industry and Trade, which are moving more towards more targeted industrial research, have increased by 37,5 p.m. So there is a focus on research under this government, and a special focus on industrial research. It is true that all parties have agreed on the objective in relation to the gross domestic product of 3 pst. We know that there's a measure that changes every time, for example. the oil price is changing. When the oil price rises, the percentage goes down, even though a user spends the same amount of money or more. With regard to the tax FUNN in particular, it is true, as the representative says, that there is a lot of positive mention of the experience from the tax FUNN scheme in the SSB report. That report has been received by the Government, and we are now going to have an evaluation of the TaxFUNN scheme and naturally mention it in the context of next year's government budget. But what has been proven so far is that what the right parties claimed before the last elections, namely that the tax FUNN scheme would be in danger if there was a government change, it has been cancelled. This government has continued the tax FUNN scheme. No budgetary allocation has been made, as the representative said. Two limitations have been made in the number of hours and hourly rates, justified by the feasibility and traceability of the effects of public instruments. But the system has continued, contrary to what was claimed by the right parties. And the experience as far as the representative is concerned is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e179	I want to ask a follow-up question to the Minister of Research and Higher Education Tora Aasland. I think it is somewhat worrying that the Minister of Industry does not respond clearly to the future of the TaxFUNN scheme, as long as this is a very central system to ensure growth in research in business. However, the main problem in research is that the State is not spending enough on its own research programmes. We have this rest cutting that has shaped this entire period, where you're not near to the goal in 2010. What's my question now at the end of the period is: Does the government intend to do anything to achieve this goal? If this goal of investing more in research, as decided by the Storting in 2005, was not achieved, it would be interesting to have some reflections from the Council of State as a Minister of Research on the impact it will have on value creation in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e188	I join the State Council Andersen has said in particular regarding the TaxFUNN scheme, which was the starting point for the representative's questions. We know that there are many positive aspects that are presented in the statistical central agency evaluation, and we will be interested in following up all the good actions that can stimulate research in the business community. One of the biggest challenges in achieving ambitious research goals is that we have some factors that are a little difficult to control, but where we have to motivate. The most important of these is to motivate research in business. That means, of course, that the state has to do its own thing, and we're working on it, as the State Council, Andersen, said. But he and I have a very good relationship with business, and our most important task is to motivate and stimulate business to do its part of research, which is actually two-thirds of the research goal we have set.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e197	There will be follow-up questions - first Kåre Fostervold.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e200	We're not going to go back more than 12 hours, as in this room we had a pretty good discussion about Innovation Norway and the instruments that are there. During that debate, there was a lot of talk on the part of the Council of State for Andersen about the innovation message to come. I expect that during that work the tax FUNN scheme has been assessed. Studies show that it has worked very well. It is used by many in the business world, but unfortunately there was a narrowing. My question to the Council of State is: Will the presentation of the Innovation Communication give us some prospects for the TaxFUNN scheme, and can we know if the Council of State has assessed a reversal of the budget for 2007?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e207	On the first question, the answer is yes. The TaxFUNN Facility is going to be one of the things mentioned in the Innovation Communication. On the second question, the answer is no - for the limits set, are based on the traceability and controllability to be available in all areas where the state grants money, in this case and in most cases for good purposes, here in the form of tax havens. But then we evaluate the level and the device of the current instruments, and as I said, this will be an opportunity to discuss in the context of the innovation message.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e215	Ingredient S. Sørfonn - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e218	I believe I will continue with a follow-up question to the Minister of Industry. The tax FUNN scheme has our unbureaucratic, accurate, and it has been very popular. The tax FUNN scheme works, and it has strengthened research and development in enterprises. According to the Central Statistical Office, the business community spends NOK 2 on the increased research effort for each krona provided by the State. Then there has been a considerable uncertainty about the future of the tax FUNN scheme, because the government has clearly trusted that businesses - especially small and medium-sized enterprises - will make good use of the money. This must be the only logical explanation that the government will use money on centralized research programs that they have more control over. So my question is, is there a strong ideological over-interpretation that underpins the bureaucratic top-down governance of business, or does the government have other explanations as to why they want to slow down the tax FUNN scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e229	I am a little uncertain about where the representative has got it from that we want to reduce the stakes on the SkattenFUNN scheme. In fact, it was claimed by the opposition in front of the last election that if we got a majority, there was a danger to the TaxFUNN system, but we have proved that. I agree with the description of how the tax FUNN scheme has worked. I would like to add that it has perhaps worked very well by stimulating research and development efforts in small and medium-sized enterprises, which otherwise are not by their own economic weight the most dominant in research efforts. This is precisely why the instrument has worked well. I agree with the representative. That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e236	Lars Sponheim - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e239	Yes, the Minister of Industry is absolutely right. It has worked very well. Although the Government has weakened the TaxFUNN scheme somewhat, there is hardly any way this hall has taken effect, which until those degrees have come to an end. It shows in a rather adventurous way - and it also shows the evaluation - that by implementing a tax-stimulated instrument, it is possible to steer entirely private enterprises in the most desirable direction. Yes, it is a success so great that it has become a problem in itself, partly because it has said that tax is an effective tool for managing the private sector, and partly because it has shown that it provides a bill for money. It may also be a problem. We remember that the Workers' Party was against a tax-stimulated tax FUNN scheme. They wanted a traditional social-democratic system of trade, where they distribute money from the state and make people small. And then there's uncertainty. It shows this question. It shows that the government has actually weakened the arrangement. But now the Minister of Industry has the genuine chance of giving a guarantee that as long as this government sits, until 2009, the tax-stimulated FUNN scheme will not be removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e248	I also agree that the system has worked well, although I might not go as far as the representative Sponheim, who called it adventurous. I guess I'd like to reserve some other stuff. But we agree that the system has worked well. It is true that the Workers' Party was one of the parties that was skeptical of the SkateFUNN as an instrument. That's where we were wrong. That is why we have continued the scheme. What I don't understand is the basis that the opposition is now producing it as if there was uncertainty about the tax FUNN scheme. What has happened is that an evaluation report has been submitted. It goes through the government thoroughly with a view to continuing incentives for research in Norway. And as is natural, it is presented in connection with the state budget. This is when the type of evaluation is presented for review - in a very ordinary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e255	Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e258	I have a follow-up question for the Minister of Research and Higher Education. Tora Aasland said to TV 2 The news channel on 8 January this year, in response to the criticism of Regeringa's lack of research effort: in relation to the objectives set, the steps we are taking are too small. It's not just that the steps are too small, but they also go in the wrong direction. In this context, it might be appropriate to refresh the memory of Dag Terje Andersen, because what we saw in the 2006 budget was that unremunerated research effort in SkattenFUNN was cut by 30 million. kr. In the 2007 budget, the tax FUNN was cut by 150 million. kr. These are money that the opposition in its alternative budgets has tried to put back, but as the government parties vote down every time. It has become a trend that the government parties and the government want to hide their own lack of follow-up of the 3 p.m. target behind the fact that business does not research enough. Then it's funny that you want to cut down on a system that actually makes business research. Can the State Council guarantee that the TaxFUNN will be maintained as today?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e267	The reason why we wanted an evaluation of the TaxFUNN scheme was, of course, a desire to obtain the best possible basis for which instruments, especially business, should be stimulated. What is a cross-estimate is that although the scheme has worked well, there has not been an increase in R & D activities by industry. It is still quite a question of how best to motivate business to do more research. Then the Tax Fund or a similar scheme is one variant, but there are of course other ways to do this. We're working on that all the time. I would like to stress what the Minister of Industry said earlier in this Questionnaire, that there is actually a rather large increase in total in research, but there is no reason to be completely satisfied either with ourselves or with the business community. We still have one problem to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e272	That's the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e275	I have a question for the Minister of Defence. We know that the current government, despite the SV's NATO resistance and despite the access to footnotes in terms of our involvement in Afghanistan and the attitude towards rocket defence in Europe, is holding fast to the importance of the NATO alliance for Norway. It is established in the long-term proposition that the Minister of Defence stated that alliert presence on Norwegian soil is important. The government also says that Norway must work actively to create ally awareness and understanding of the challenges in our areas. All of this is well and good. The more incomprehensible it is that the government, through its proposals for changes to the structure of defence in both the north and the south, puts the presence of NATO in Norway at risk in the opinion of a great many. The government I myself was a member of, said the following about this to the Stortinget just five years ago: ‘The absence of stationary NATO forces earmarked for Norway requires the organisation of allied presence by other instruments. Here, NATO’s new JWC headquarters at Jåtta and Alliert as well as treatment in Norway is important.’ After that, the defense has invested between 300 and 400 million. kr to build a well-functioning operational headquarters co-located with NATO. Then suddenly the association with NATO is no longer important to the sitting government. The large resources that have been lost are also not so important, although there should be a greater concern for defence management, which has a poor reputation both in the management of human resources and in the management of financial resources. But even more serious, I think it is that this may have an impact on NATO’s long-term presence in Norway. The Minister of Defence has removed this whole issue of Norway’s use of resources to maintain its hosting function for the NATO training centre. What guarantees from NATO is the Minister for Defence based on when she is so convinced that the changes she is now proposing will not have consequences for NATO's future presence in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e290	It's quite right, as the representative Højbräten says, that the government places great emphasis on our membership of the NATO Alliance. We want to be an active member of the NATO Alliance and try every way to follow it up. At the same time, the command that NATO had in Norway was actually decided to wind up under the previous government -- it was in Bodø. It left Norway earlier this year. The presence that is in Stavanger, we are happy to have in Norway, and we will continue to have it in Norway. When we've said that we need to simplify the command structure, it's just to make better use of our resources. There has been a strong change in the defense - from the 20 000 annual works to the 15 000. There was a strong downboard in all fields. Where you couldn't do it well was on the command line and the management structure. We have to simplify that. That's why I agreed with the defense chief's proposal to merge the two commands into one. If we look at the North Region bet, where we really have the biggest challenges in this country, it goes without saying that it has to be added to Bodø. That is why the Government has also proposed it in the long-term plan. As far as our dialogue with NATO is concerned, it has been good. We've had meetings with NATO, we've written letters to NATO, and we've said, of course, that we should follow up our host country's obligations to NATO. And NATO understands that we, like all other countries, and also NATO as an organization, have to simplify the command structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e299	I note that the Minister of Defence to Stortinget has not been able to provide any guarantees from NATO that underpin her position, that the issue of changes to the Operational Command does not have an impact on NATO's presence in Norway in the future. I'm not worried that the government party SV, who has programmed Norway to leave NATO, will succeed, but I'm afraid they will succeed in getting NATO out of Norway. It's serious. I would like to ask the Minister of Defence, who has repeatedly suggested that she is interested in an agreement here in the United Kingdom on the long-term proposition: is the Minister of Defence and the Government prepared to negotiate with the opposition parties on such important issues in order to reach a broad consensus on defence policy in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e306	I have repeatedly said here in Stortinget that I want a broad agreement, a broad decision, i.e. that there are as many parties in Stortinget as possible behind the decision on the long-term plan. It is a strength for the plan, and it is a strength for the defence and for the security policy, which has been a tradition of being united in the Stortinget. So I want to. What elements are to be negotiated must be negotiated - I cannot take that here. But when I say that we want a broad decision in Stortinget, it is also an invitation to a dialogue on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e311	There will be follow-up questions - first Henning Skumsvoll.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e314	The decision to move FOHK Yåttå and decommission the Madla camp is becoming increasingly questionable, and not least in the case of the command organisations. The host country support of the NATO Joint Warfare Centre, pampering, foraging and transport, etc., is carried out to a significant extent by the Madla camp staff. It is invested approx. 500 million. kr at Madla since 2000, and 90 pst. for reasons of privacy. A disposal of this housing stock may involve a cost of 100 million. kr, so my questions are: What sales gains have been calculated for the disposal of Madla camp in St.prp. No 48? And is there any kind of impact assessment before the decision to shut down FOHK Jåttå and Madla camp is taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e321	The long-term plan has been dealt with by the Government and is now being dealt with by the Storting. In the case of the individual elements taken up here, such as the Madla camp, it is absolutely right that it is proposed to be terminated, as one of our camps and bases that have been proposed for liquidation. There is a decision and a recommendation that we are behind, and that is again in line with the professional military recommendations that I have received. With regard to the overall picture, the movement of FOHK and the totality of the long-term plan, all the calculations made here by the Government have been for external quality assurance. The quality assurance report has been or must be made available to the whole Size.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e330	Jan Petersen - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e333	The problem is that the government practically drains Rogaland for military activities, and in such a emptied Rogaland it is obvious that the government nevertheless believes that NATO will be in its command. My question to the Council of State is therefore: can she guarantee that NATO will remain in Norway? I heard that she mentioned that she had had a good dialogue, but I heard nothing about what that guarantee would be. The father is that you have here a NATO activity that will be like an island without anything around it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e338	I agree that it is important that we have NATO presence in Norway. When it's said that Rogaland is drained for defense functions, you're the Joint Warfare Centre again. But I also want to stress that the agencies that have been in Rogaland, especially when FOHK, on which there has been a lot of focus, are part of our command line. But, as I say, we want to simplify. I also think it is the right goal to simplify the command structure in itself, which does not necessarily give us any more operational capability - and that is the operational capability the defense must have in order to carry out its tasks. This is not primarily achieved by having two command centres and not one command centre, if it has been professionally considered important and proper to have only one. As far as guarantees are concerned, we have received assurances from NATO that this has no effect on their presence. They are dependent on host countries [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e345	Jan Sahl - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e348	I would like to follow up on our relationship with NATO linked to the North, which consists of large sea areas where the Maritime Defense has a very important task. It seems strange that the protection of Olaf is to be reduced and that vessels in the large northern sea areas, including NATO vessels, are to be referred to logistics vessels, which are not present today, and random civil ports. Where are our submarines and allies going to have their service base in the northern regions? Oil protection is tailor-made for the task. It is difficult to imagine that the submarines are going to go to a ship's side for repairs. The Defence Operational Headquarters has on several occasions expressed concerns about the operational capability of the Maritime Defence Agency in the northern areas if the Olav protection is to be reduced. It is said that the base is one of NATO's most modern and appropriate medium-sized bases. Has NATO really given its blessing that we are now laying down the Olav protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e356	This supplementary question was somewhat on the edge of the main question, but the Council of State chooses whether or not to answer it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e359	With regard to the recommendations proposed in the long-term plan, I would like to stress that, on the part of the Government, they are largely based on professional-military assessments and professional-military recommendations. The reorganization and restructuring that we have had in Defence makes it no longer possible to maintain a base in absolutely all parts of the country. It has concentrated on some main bases, but at the same time it has been very clear that the Navy will sail in the north, and that the Coast Guard will also sail in the north. It's a very important goal, so we're just going to be able to take care of the north, the sovereignty and everything that we're actually concerned about, and that's important. In the case of the Olav Protection Marine Base, it has been assessed by the Defence Manager that it is not needed in the new structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e368	Odd Einar Doorroom - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e371	As the Council of State knows, I lead the Norwegian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Western Union. What you quickly discover when you've been there for a while is that NATO currently has a lot of problems in many places in the world. There is no doubt that NATO, whether it is in Afghanistan or elsewhere, is under intense pressure. Of course, we are not discussing Norwegian membership in NATO here, but we are discussing NATO's practical presence in Norway. We know that the presence is a little dependent on whether we're good, competent, as a host nation. This applies, for example: The AWACS operation on the island. I'm not going to take it now, but it's the Joint Warfare Centre on Jåttå. I think I have to be able to say it in that way that the Left is prepared to fight for Yåttå to be such a living expression of NATO's presence in Norway, and would like the Council of State to elaborate further on the answer she tried to give, namely whether the guarantees NATO has given that they will remain here no matter how we treat the situation on Yåttå.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e378	The correspondence we've had with NATO, there's nothing wrong with the fact that the Storting can also be familiarized with. When you talk about guarantees, I am not so sure that anyone can provide guarantees for anything. But there's nothing in the dialogue we've had with NATO that indicates that they're going to change their presence -- nothing in what they've said. They're familiar with the long-term plan. They are e.g. known of the Chief of Defense's study, they have assessed it and sent feedback to it. NATO is committed to a strong operational capacity for defence in all Member States. It is our absolute duty to try to make the best use of the resources we have. It's about human resources, and it's about financial resources. If we're going to do it, we need to simplify both the management and the command structure. That's exactly why we're now in this process. But we have made many assurances to NATO about presence [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e387	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e390	My question goes to the Minister of Industry. The Minister of Economic Affairs is considered to be a typical, traditional and old-fashioned labour party politician. It sees one in business policy, which is characterised to a very small extent by innovation. But one also sees it in terms of attitudes to openness and transparency in his ministry's work. The Ministry of Economic Affairs is now one of the departments where most cases are exempted from public disclosure. Today's Business today has a report showing that the Department refuses to deliver the procurement protocols for the legal tasks relating to the review of Hydro-shef Eivind Reiten's Option Agreement. A new disclosure law has been adopted to remove the provision providing for such exemption. The law will come into force in a short time. Similarly, the Ministry of Economic Affairs is breaking its intention and decision of the Stortinget. This shows a lack of respect for the Storting decision, and it shows a lack of understanding of the importance of transparency in tenders and acquisitions - in a good working party tradition. The previous government, where the Left took part and had the Minister of Justice, felt that such transparency was important, among other things. in order to ensure reprobability and to avoid adverse bonds. That government therefore proposed to repeal the provision on admission to tender after the choice of the supplier to exempt the minutes and tenders. What are the reasons given by the Ministry of Industry for refusing access to these protocols and thus undermining its intention and the decision taken by a unanimous majority to facilitate a better, well-functioning democracy where transparency and transparency are important elements?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e405	I am very pleased with that question, because it gives me the opportunity to comment on some of the suggestions that have been made in today's business on the matter that the representative Kvassheim mentions. In today's business they claim that there has been a crime in this case. There's no crime. It is rare that although it is claimed in today's business that there is a crime, there is therefore some crime. With regard to the question of procurement protocols, the most recent reference to many media is that in some cases there has been no procurement protocol. So in this case, it's okay. There have been many other approaches to the question of that kind of protocol. Then it is in the nature of the matter that the Ministry of Industry's tender documents, or protocols where there have been no tenders, contain many sensitive information. We work a lot with listed companies, among others. Therefore, it is in line with and in agreement with the Riksrevision that in our acquisitions we use those parts of the paragraphs that sometimes it is right not to have tenders. In the present case, it was such that a used urgent paragraph § 2-1-2-c, which gives the opportunity to handle the question exactly the way it was done. As regards the transparency of protocols, the justification is exactly the same. In the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, we treat a lot of business sensitive information. Of course, when companies provide information to the Ministry of Commerce, we have an obligation to handle it in a way that they can feel safe. In line with the law that now applies, that kind of information - and then I am not talking about the matter in question, but generally - can be part of the protocol. Then we have the responsibility to maintain confidentiality... [[The President announces the next speaker]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e420	I am recording that the Ministry of Economic Affairs has changed the grounds for confidentiality during the work of obtaining the relevant protocols and no longer emphasises business secrets, but shoots under the provision that the Storting has thus lifted - the new law will come in a short time. So it is right that the Minister of Industry does not break the law, but he is acting contrary to what is the Storting's intention, and expresses a lack of understanding of the importance of transparency in these kinds of questions. In 2006, the Ministry of Economic Affairs had a refusal of 31 p.m. transparency requests. It was the worst of the departments. The competition was hard, with a working party-controlled department at the top of this list. What will the Minister of Economic Affairs do to ensure that the Ministry returns to the course it had under Lars Sponheim's leadership, as it was going from being one of the most closed departments to being one of them with the most transparency, with monthly routines, use of Open Placat, etc., where one had both attitudes and a continuous follow-up to ensure transparency?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e429	When the new legislation and the new law enters into force, it will affect the way protocols are written. This means, of course, that you are going to write protocols with a view to making them public, i.e. that any sensitive information of a commercial nature is not available from that protocol. The protocols currently in place are in line with existing legislation, and that is the background to the practice that has taken place. Otherwise, I agree - and I have discussed this with the said, now big business representative, Sponheim earlier - in the principle that there should be the most transparency in public administration. We agree on that. But that's how some business interests need to be taken care of, and those that relate to the Ministry of Economic Affairs also have to be able to trust that we handle confidential information confidentially. We'll keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e436	There will be follow-up questions - first Kåre Fostervold.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e440	There are probably some paragraphs and something in the law you can always hide behind, but I think the council agrees with me that it is quite unfortunate signals to send out. In terms of private business, we have an incredible number of control bodies. We have a rigid code. We're going to have full transparency, we're going to have full competition -- and we're going to be looking for that all the time. And when the media contact different companies and get different opinions as to whether or not you have the ability to withhold information, there is a basis for asking if the assessment made by the Council of State is correct. I have drafted a letter that will be sent during the day, asking for transparency in the matter. Will I receive the same answer that the Business Life of the Day has received on its request?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e449	I cannot answer a letter until I have received it. I will, of course, answer it when I receive it. As regards the general claim, there has been transparency in these cases, except for the transparency of protocols in relation to the legislation in force today. We follow that legislation, and when it comes to new legislation, we follow it. It matters how protocols are written, and I hope the Storting agrees that when I handle information related to e.g. listed companies shall be able to ensure that such information is properly managed by those companies. But it has been an incredibly critical review in many media, more or less qualified, in the last few days. In the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, we have had 34 of those kind of consulting agreements. We have also reduced the use of money on consulting agreements in relation to the previous government, although the media has found no reason to make any number out of it. But we've been embarrassingly accurate, among other things. with the agreement on which this question is based. [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e460	Torbjørn Hansen - for follow-up questions. The President will ask everyone to follow the clock. When the lamp goes out, close your mouth.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e465	I think it becomes more absurd when a Minister of Industry from the Workers' Party is using the country's best paid business lawyers with a fee per. a day which is roughly in line with the annual salary of an industrial worker, in order to deal with a matter of high top management wages. I think that's quite absurd. Had this matter been handled in a tidy manner by the Government, the need for business lawyers had been considerably less for the Council of State. My question is about the general policy of the Ministry of Industry on the use of external consultants, and it goes against the Aker Holding case in this case. What is the reason why the Minister of Industry hires consultants with an annual salary to handle this matter, when he does not use a crown to make a financial quality assurance of a purchase in Aker Holding of NOK 5 billion from the smoking system?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e472	It is therefore wrong that we have gone crazy in consulting. There are fixed salaries for what a lawyer should have paid, and when many of them work around the clock for a few days, there will be many hours. It's a function of that. I would also like to remind you that last summer the representative of Hansen's party leader, when this matter was up to date, actually went out and demanded that I make sure that we had a thorough review. But now I'm being criticized for providing the thorough review. In addition, this case has been reviewed in cross-sectional terms, once in a while, including: in consultation within the committee, and the claim that it was poorly handled, is thoroughly driven back, although I know that many will continue to claim it anyway. Well, we used external consultants in relation to the Aker Holding case. These included: the consultants who said that when Aker Holding's value was assessed by seven, eight reputable companies in Norway in relation to the information that is the same to which we could obtain: [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e483	Ingredient S. Sørfonn - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e486	This situation seems to be merging into something that might be a pattern. For the government has a lot more problems, and one of them is an increasing distance between life and learning: the government is against options and bold final packages, but they practice such schemes themselves. They are strict in the requirements for cleanness in supply and procurement, but break the laws and regulations themselves in this area. They're too open and public, but they're practicing the opposite. And even if this isn't a violation of the laws that apply today, it will at least be a violation of the laws that are passed and that will enter into force in the fall. My question is simply: does the Council of State see that it is particularly bad pedagogic to make clear and strict demands on others without even living up to these great ideals?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e493	On the basis of how the representative has obviously perceived things, perhaps pedagogicism must have been a bad thing. It is a mistake that the state is running options, as the representative said. On the contrary, we have ensured that there has been a stop in the conclusion of new option agreements. We are, in the name of propriety, in the same way that the previous government was, concerned that the rules governing acquisition, of course, should be followed. In the department for which I am responsible, as I said, the use of money for the kind of consulting services has actually fallen. We have had a thorough review of 34 agreements, of which there was one agreement in which there should have been protocol, but where it was not. That proves what the representative said that it is a major trend. There are a few exceptions to what is the general rule. Our office is extremely tidy when it comes to ensuring that the papers are in order, because we know that [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e500	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e503	My question goes to one of the state councils which has the weakest framework conditions in relation to the 2005 commitments. I see it moving a little bit in the foot of all three, but it is the minister of research and higher education who gets the credit this time. Since SV took up the offices of the Ministry of Knowledge, the criticism of the Government’s education policy has been raised from the whole school system and higher education. There's been a lot of cutbacks in higher education. This has led to a major cut in the supply of students, and the follow-up plan for higher education staff has disappeared. In the Progress Party, we have probably believed that it is SVs that initially very weak school and education policies have led to the commitment to higher education from this government being generally down-priority. In the last edition of the magazine Education, we actually get our confirmation. There, the former Minister of Knowledge says a part about SV’s education policy. This he says on questions about what was his greatest challenge as Minister of Knowledge: ‘SV lacked a comprehensive education policy. As a member of the government, it doesn't seem like a party just to be against Kristin Clemet and what she did. Much of the responsibility lies with the former committee leader. He devalued systematic knowledge. We simply took over an educational policy that was lightly thoughtful and easy to attack. The two unsuccessful election campaigns of the party leadership in school must also take some of the blame. Both the election campaign in 2001 and 2003 revealed a serious failure in our education policy.’ In what way does the Government’s numerous betrayals of higher education reflect the political history of former State Council Djupedal on SV’s easy-to-use and easily accessible education policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e519	In the same interview, former State Council Djupedal said that he was involved in concrete and policy-making. My work as State Council for Higher Education and Research is now concentrated on obtaining both a good basis for a good higher education policy and a good basis for a good research policy. I have spent half the year sitting in the Council of State to obtain information about the learning situation around the higher education institutions, universities and colleges, get me information about how the research can be carried out. I'm fully aware that there is a need for resources. I am constantly working on that matter. But I also want to point out that, after all, there is a lot of positive stuff going very well in our higher education institutions. We train people to a high level of competence. We conduct research at international level. I am quite proud to see the results that come from our educational institutions in quite a number of areas where we need to be at the forefront in terms of education and research, for example. on global challenges and key health and welfare research. Norway is well ahead thanks to good and high-quality researchers, professors and students. But it's clear that this is a way to go. Together with the rest of the Government, it is my work now to get this done in an even better way in the future. The starting point of SV is clear and clear. That is what we are constantly in the process of chiseling out to a good basis for a future education policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e529	It was a little difficult to track the answer to the question, but I note that the Council of State at least agrees with the former Council of State Djupedal in the history description. It's worth noting. It is true that this government has cut large in higher education. It introduced the so-called rest cutting and took away 300 million. kr from higher education. I hear the Council of State is now saying that there is a need to allocate resources to the sector. That's what former State Council Djupedal meant. He has a thrilling story about this cut in the same interview. I want to quote from it too: "But I fought hard against the cut of about 250 million to higher education and warned very strongly Kristin Halvorsen that we were going to get criticism and lose tens of thousands of votes in higher education." I would like to hear what makes the Council of Aasland believe that her voice will be heard in the Government, when her predecessor's voice did not.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e541	I came in as a state council after the framework had been laid for the state budget for 2008, which we are now in the middle of. In this way, I have not been able to influence the basis on which this state budget is built. In the six months that I have now been the Council of State, as I said, I have spent time and effort to get the necessary reasoning and information in relation to the future picture we have to draw, and the job we have to do in relation to higher education and research. It is my clear ambition that we need a good basis to follow up on this in the future. As I said in my previous answer, we have a good starting point. I would also like to remind you that there has not been a complete lack of investment from the Government this year. Among other things, we have provided money for 350 scholarships, which is quite significant for these educational institutions. So we're on the right track.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e550	There will be follow-up questions - first Gunnar Gundersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e553	In the case of scholarship positions, there is no provision for basic funding so that institutions can afford to receive these scholarship holders. There are quite interesting quotes from former State Council Djupedal: ‘SV lacked a comprehensive education policy’ and that it does not hold ‘for a party just to be against Kristin Klemet’. The Council of State said that they had now made this concrete to what the Government is for. In that case, it appears that the basic appropriations for higher education are too cut. It is in order to reduce the freedom of action of research through the disposal of research funds from the Research Fund in addition to what the Research Council recommends. And they've tightened up the TaxFUNN system. It's a shame to say that, but we've gone from clear and clear and offensive policies in the last period to seeing very clearly what you're against, but not what you're for.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e562	There are two dimensions in a discussion about what a good education and research policy is. One is about resources, and the other is about content. The content of the bets to be made is very important to clarify. I believe that both the Government and the Swedish Government have a clear relationship with the starting point of our knowledge policy, which is about a lot that is far too extensive to take up a question time like this. But, of course, we have a clear starting point both in the programme and in the Soria Moria declaration. Then comes the challenges posed by the resource situation, which will always be an important task to work with in relation to the budgets. I am in the process of making an effort in relation to this, and can assure the representative that I am doing absolutely my best to get a good resource situation in place as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e569	Hans Olav Syversen - to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e572	It's really strong the former minister of knowledge serves on his own party's policy and on the government's lack of commitment to higher education. Djupedal says he warned SV leaders and Finance Minister Halvorsen against introducing the so-called rest cutting, with a cut of 250 million. kr in the appropriations for higher education. I quote what he has further said: ‘I also gave a slide lecture to the government with a presentation of some of the about 1000 critical articles and articles in the media. The presentation made enough impressions, but it had no practical consequences.» The Christian People's Party and more with us have warned of the serious consequences that the cut may have, and I therefore ask whether the Council of State shares this concern. And when a real educational tool such as slide screening does not work for the Government, what means will this Council of State use to convince its own party and the Government to bet?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e582	I will not comment on the instruments for possible influence of the Government. I can only assure the representative that in the months I have now been the Council of State, I have worked very hard to get that overview and build confidence in the sector, so we have a solid and good platform to build on our knowledge policy. I have to repeat what I have responded to other representatives here, that I believe and know that there is a lot of good work going on around. I also know that there are some challenges that, among other things. the above-mentioned cut has led to, but I would also like to make it clear that these scholarship positions - of course, there is a dispute as to how well funded they are - were in any case a good allocation from accumulation and government to educational institutions, and have, of course, helped to ensure that universities and colleges have been able to do their job, namely to carry out good education and quality research.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e589	Odd Einar Doorroom - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e592	I'm not going to deal with research in general, or the current government policy in that area, because we can discuss that on Friday, but in this interview with former government council Djupedal he also says something that needs to be understood as follows: that he has made sure that his successor has come to the covered table. Then I have to ask the Council of State: does the Council of State think it is covered when last year we had a decline in the general teacher training search of 16-17 p.m., and this year we have had a decrease in all teacher training, both five-year-olds, professionals and general teachers, so that if we are to rely on the newspaper Our Country, we have had a halve since 1996? Is this coming to the covered table, when we know at the same time that we will be missing teachers in a few years because many are approaching the age limit, when we know that the government parties have voted down all the proposals in the Stortingen to recruit? Does the Council feel that she came to the table when recruiting teachers for the Norwegian school?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e599	I am very aware that we have some challenges in both recruiting teachers and other important professional groups. I am fully aware that we have also received good input from the opposition, not least from the Left, in relation to this, and we will discuss some of this in a debate later this week. The challenges have been there all along, and what has been done in the past has laid a foundation for what we are doing now. There has been no lack of action, and what we are concerned about in this government and for my part in the field of higher education right now is to get as good a holistic approach as possible, not just a piece by piece and divided, but a holistic approach to the different educations. As far as teacher training is concerned, it is also about recruiting - a very important aspect of it all - that we aim to get not only enough teachers, but well-qualified teachers. We'll come back to that in later discussions, but what's been the most important thing for me is to see the overall grip in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e607	Let's go to the last main question - Jan Petersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e610	My question goes to the Minister of Defence. A few weeks ago, the head of defense gave an interview to the Norwegian Telegram Bureau where, among other things, is concerned with the immediate development of the budget: ‘We must cut in drills, training, fuel and ammunition consumption, flight hours, sailing hours and training days in the army.’ And he says, among other things, on the effect thereof: ‘One of the main challenges of cutting off the training offer to, for example, pilots is that they will lose the licence in the case of too few flight hours.’ This is a very dramatic message, which obviously goes beyond the operational capability of the defense, but also beyond motivation and recruitment, because it is obvious that pilots without certificates will hardly thrive in the defense. This is not something that can be solved by creating a balance of defence in the short term. This is a problem that needs to be addressed now in order to solve it in the short term. My question to the Minister of Defence is: What action will she take in the short term, so that this very dramatic situation does not arise?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e629	All Ministries and all governments must govern according to the budgets they have. It's not that we have less resources available, but we have a high level of activity in Defense, we have a large foreign exposure, which, of course, wears on the entire organisation. As far as our pilots are concerned, they're not close to losing a licence for resource reasons. In the current year, we have not completed Cold Response. There's several reasons for that. There are both resource reasons and this about introducing a new financial management system, which very much seized the same people in the organisation. We're in a situation now that I think many are. We're looking at it in terms of expansion, we're looking at material acquisitions -- things are getting more expensive, and we have to constantly adapt our activity to it. In the case of operation in general, I would not say that it is down to some irresponsible level, so that there is reason to call for warning. But if we don't manage to achieve a long-term plan that is also able to balance resource use, so that we have a real relationship between the activity we put up, the resources we have, and the economy we invest, then we'll get into a very, very difficult situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e638	What I got from this answer was that the Council of State has not intended to do anything about this, and does not see any drama in the situation. Then I'd like to repeat what the head of defense really says. What he says is that we have to cut in exercises, training, fuel and ammunition consumption, flight hours, sailing hours and training days in the Army. All of this is about the operational capability of the defence. Does the Minister of Defense really mean that you can live with a defense that can be described in the way that the head of defence here makes it clear?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e645	I would like to remind you that the defence this year uses approx. 31 billion kroner for their business. Very much of that business is, of course, operational and also practice and training. I've seen an overview of today's practice activities, which covers all defenses, no later than today. In the short term, if you are going to make changes to a budget, you have to take it on board - all of them - from the budget you have. I don't want to say that we're down to an irresponsible level, but this is a concern in the long term if we don't get a long-term plan that has a balance between activity, the number of personnel we have in the defense, and the economic resources made available.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e652	There'll be follow-up questions -- first Per Ove Wideth.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e655	That the defense is in deficit, there is no doubt about it. It does not help to spend a lot of money when it is obviously not enough. In an article in the Evening Post of April 24, this year, we read that the defense is in arrears, among other things. in the case of training of soldiers for foreign missions and the purchase of equipment to improve the capacity of the forces in Afghanistan to face a more serious threat picture. According to the same article, the inspector-general has announced that there will be far fewer Norwegian soldiers in foreign missions in 2009. Can we again see that the accounts for 2008 will be of the same nature as we have seen in previous years, which actually resulted in the General Inspector of the Army leaving? And is it true that there are already restrictions on the budget for 2008, so that we cannot meet what we were going to do in Afghanistan in terms of now putting in effort forces at approximately. 30 men, who can't be decommissioned because there's no money?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e662	These were many questions to answer in a short time. I would like to say that as long as I have been the Council of State, there has been budgetary control in Defence, and we have been busy managing the business. It's a big business, it's been a lot of activity, and you have to manage the budgets and the resources you have. But it hasn't gone beyond the activity. We have had an activity that has been sound in relation to the tasks we have had. Special attention is paid to preparation for international operations. With regard to the general inspector of the Army's statements on the load in the Army, there are some groups in the Army who have been heavily burdened. I also want to remind you that we currently have almost 700 soldiers in Afghanistan, very many from other sectors of defence as well. We have special forces in Afghanistan, we have a large helicopter contribution, we have personnel from the FLO and also from the Homeland Protection Agency. So there are many who contribute in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e673	Erna Solberg - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e676	I hear a defense minister talking a lot. But the description given by Chief of Defense Dien is not about anything that lies ahead, or the long-term consequences. It's next year's budget, based on what the government has outlined in the long-term defence program. That's where he says you have to cut in the operational areas. That's where he says it's getting smaller for practice and training, fuel consumption and ammunition. That's where he expresses concern about whether the pilots retain their aircraft licenses to fly to training hours. And it's read out from the priorities that the Minister of Defense and the Government have done in what is now being put before the Great Government for consideration. Then my question is: is the Minister of Defense comfortable with the fact that the lack of priority and the lack of willingness to increase the appropriations that the Government stands for is going to have this kind of response, which is going to make our soldiers less equipped to perform difficult tasks in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e683	Our soldiers shall not be, and will not be, less rusted for the tasks they have and shall have in the future. It's our first task to make sure that the soldiers we send out are well-trained, well-equipped for this. If Solberg's representative had read the long-term plan that is now under consideration in Stortinget, she would have seen the defense chief's comment behind that long-term plan. It actually applies from 2009. It says that if you get to the long-term plan like it's supposed to, it'll be a match, and we'll get a good defense. But here's the whole concern that one should not be able to get the big, wide decision in the Stortingen that brings together resources and the means at its disposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e689	So the oral question procedure is over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e694	The President will inform the representatives that there are currently no changes to the questionnaire, and the Government deserves to be commended.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e700	My question to the Minister of Finance is this: ‘The Norwegian economy is low. When interest was raised on April 23 for the fourteenth time during this government, the central bank manager Jan F. Qvigstad said that an important element in the normalisation of the Norwegian economy is a normalization of the savings rate. Economic experts support the Bank of Norway in this view. Do the Council of State agree with the Bank of Norway in view of the fact that too low savings keep interest rates higher than they could be, and what instruments does the Council of State intend to use to change that situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e714	Norway’s saving is high in an international perspective. In the period 2000-2007 the savings were around 35 pst. GDP. Among OECD countries, only Switzerland and Korea save almost as much of their GDP as Norway. However, household savings have fallen in recent years and are now at the lowest level since the mid-1980s. The decline in household savings must include, inter alia: is seen in the context of the fact that interest rates have been very low over several years. There is reason to believe that normalising the level of interest rates will also contribute to saving. Current statistics suggest that the strong growth in consumption over the last few years is at a loss. The Ministry of Finance estimates an increase in household savings from 2007 to 2008. The Ministry of Finance will provide new estimates for the development of the Norwegian economy in the revised national budget, presented on 15 May. In the 2007 economic perspective, the Central Statistical Agency estimates an increase in household savings of 4 percentage points from 2007 to 2010. For households with a debt, higher interest rates clearly move towards higher savings. On the other hand, both economic theory and past experience may suggest that tax incentives for certain savings products primarily affect the composition of savings and not overall savings. A reason is, among other things, such schemes are used in particular by persons with relatively high income or wealth. Therefore, as a tool for increasing pension savings, such schemes are ineffective. Such schemes also have poor distribution effects, such as: the experience with IPA shows. For example, a more effective way to increase pension savings is to: introduction of compulsory occupational retirement provision. The distribution effects of such schemes are also much better.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e723	I thank you for your answer. I perceive the answer so that the Minister of Finance - not surprisingly - believes that tax incentives only distort savings and do not increase savings. But then I'm also a little surprised that the finance minister now seems to rely largely on us getting a higher interest rate, we also get a higher savings. I hope that you do not want interest to be as high as possible, because it is not only people who save, who depend on interest, but also those who have to pay interest on their obligations. I then realize that the Minister of Finance has nothing to do with tax incentives, and that is nothing new. But does the Minister of Finance think that it is good to increase the tax on savings, and that it is a decent tool if we think saving is too low?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e730	There can be no surprise to the representative Fleet that an abnormally low level of interest rates, far below what is a normal level of interest rates, can also have an impact on savings. That's not exactly a stimulus for people to save. This means that a more normal level of interest may also have the effect of saving. But, of course, it is an important challenge for our government to be able to maintain both a historically high level of employment and a historically low level of unemployment while not increasing interest rates beyond what Norway’s Bank has now presented in its interest path. With regard to the overall composition of fiscal policies, it is important to ensure the fairest possible distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e737	Now this government and the finance minister have increased taxes on very many types of saving - on ownership in Norwegian business by increasing the tax on shares, on saving in IPA, on saving in housing by increasing the value of the equation, and also other types of saving. Overall, I am a little surprised that you think it is beneficial for saving. I understand that you don't want to stimulate taxes, but I have trouble understanding that you want to increase the tax on savings. Can the Minister of Finance say anything if you want to go further on this increase in tax on savings? Do you think the results are so good that you want to keep going that way?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e742	As far as the taxes on wealth are concerned, the overall effect of what the Government has done -- that's quite right, as the representative Fleet says -- is an increase in the tax on equity. It has a very clear distribution effect, because we know that equity is distributed incorrectly. But that money has been used to increase the deductions, and this has led many ordinary people with very small assets to increase the incentive for saving. So I think that the representative fleet should have a much more nuanced view of the savings effect of the changes in the wealth tax that the government has made. As for what the government's tax proposals are going to look like next year, the representative knows very well that I'm not going to go into that. But we're working all the way to create an increasingly fair tax system.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e752	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Defence: ‘The defence fails with much older equipment, including: Five frigates. The way these are removed can be discussed. While the world pays well for steel, the defense chooses to lower these in the sea. Environmentally, this is also strange in the environment-conscious everyday life we live in. Is the Council satisfied that this is the way to get rid of equipment, when it is actually possible to sell it and thereby add more financial resources to the defence?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e761	It is true that the defense uses some of the unarranged frigates of the target vessels for practice and test shootings. For the defence, these vessels have no operational value in addition to the use as target vessels. KNM ‘Oslo’ was harvested after the 1994 accident; KNM ‘Narvik’ is museum ships in Horten, KNM ‘Bergen’ and KNM ‘Trondheim’ are located in Ramsund and are prepared as target vessels. In 2002 the KNM ‘Stavanger’ was lowered by a torpedo from the submarine KNM ‘Utstein’. An environmental certification was carried out on the vessel in advance of the lowering, such as: meant that the vessel was ribbed for equipment, cleaned and cleaned for oil and other chemicals. Reports from the Swedish Defence Research Institute on environmental certification of target vessels identify potential environmental impacts. These reports have concluded that the area around a lowered target vessel is not affected to an appreciable extent. The defence has invested considerable resources in the development of ‘New target missiles’ for the new frigates and missile torpedo boats, and experience shows that test firings are very important to ensure the operation of such weapons systems. The intention of missile firing is not to lower the target vessels, although this cannot be excluded, but to use them repeatedly. Authorisation shall be obtained for the conduct of missile firing on a case-by-case basis. The defense has carried out cost calculations showing that it is cost-effective for the Defence to use unearned frigates as a target vessel compared to hiring target vessels. The NSM project has on several occasions hired target vessels to carry out test firings. According to the Defense, their experience and cost estimates show that the use of the remaining two frigates as target vessels will be the most cost-effective option. I would like to stress that it is very important for the Defense to be able to carry out test firings against target vessels, for the operationality of both the crew and the material. The defence indicates that the chosen solution for the use of some end-of-life frigates as target vessels will be implemented according to the existing guidelines and environmental requirements. Furthermore, the defense informs that this is the most cost-effective way for the Defense to meet the need for test firings, even at high steel prices in today’s market.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e772	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Such a vessel weighs 1745 tonnes. It is clear that there are quite a few kilos of steel we are talking about, and also other metals, and it amazes me what the council says, when I know that there are companies that want to buy these boats to cut them up and use those resources. I know that the defense hires target vessels, but I can't believe that it's more expensive than selling the boats and getting rid of them in an environmentally sound way. So my question is, does the Council know how much we could get for such a ship for scrapping? The council said that there were calculations made, so how much could we have got for such a ship set up against what it costs to rent? The council says it costs more to rent.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e777	According to the defense, there's between 500 and 1,000 tons of steel in the frigates, and that means you can get an income of between 2 and 4 million. kr. For comparison, renting a target vessel per year is expensive. Day 101 000 EUR, so it is expensive to rent. Here there are two aspects that have to be taken into account. One is the need for test firing, and the other is that this is also the most cost-effective way to dispose of old frigates.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e782	President Knut Grinde of Fosen Recycling says that such a frigate contains a net of 1000 tonnes of steel, in addition to other metals such as copper, brass and aluminium. He says, "lowering these is resource depletion. There are currently good metal prices, and the frigate could be melted about and thus become something useful». In addition, I believe that the defence of an environmental perspective on this too. I would believe that the Minister of Defense is not satisfied with the fact that the bottom of the sea is going to be a war cemetery for old ships, and the defense also has a responsibility not to spread waste around in a perhaps unlucky way. Because it's clear that lowering a ship, even if it's cleaned for dangerous substances, is not good for nature. And according to the Soria Moria statement, the government is an environmental government?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e787	The defense has a very strong searchlight on the environment in all its activities. What we're dealing with here are calculations made at the Defence Research Institute, and they're strong inside and leading in terms of how this disposal happens. I just repeat that the defense needs to have target vessels for their test firings. There's no goal in itself to lower them, the best thing is whether they can be used many times as target vessels. I would also like to say to the question of economics, that there have also been the figures I have given, that this is a profitable way to do it, especially because you also depend on these target vessels, which have been certified as environmental before they are used.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e797	I have the following questions for the Minister for the Environment and Development: ‘Through Moss Avis, the company Movar IKS has been found to have exceeded the required limit of concession for the landfill of waste by up to 75 % over the years 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2007. The County of Eastfold has set a ceiling of 40 000 tonnes, while the company has deposited 70 000 tonnes in 2007. What will the Council of State do to ensure that state regional environmental authorities follow up on compliance with given concession conditions and that serious breaches of the concession provisions have consequences?’ [[Counties]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e806	Let me first thank the representative Engeset for addressing this important matter to people in the Mosse region, and thus also contribute to the pressure needed to stop this pollution. All landfills for waste shall be permitted under the pollution law. It is essential that waste facilities operate under the conditions laid down in the permit. The exceedances of the concession limit for the landfill of waste that has occurred at the waste facility of Movar IKS are illegal and unacceptable. It is the county that processes applications for authorisation for the landfill of waste and is responsible for monitoring compliance with the permit conditions. It goes without saying that there are limits to how far the Council of State can go into the matter, but I mention on a general basis that environmental protection authorities have different instruments to use to ensure that concessions are respected. The Pollution Act authorises the taking of a decision on periodic penalty payments in order to ensure compliance with the permit, as well as decisions on the conversion or withdrawal of the authorisation. However, less interventional instruments are usually sufficient to ensure compliance with the concession, such as the implementation of supervision and other follow-up of the waste deposit. We have been informed that the county council in Eastfold earlier this year was on the supervision of Movar IKS following a complaint against odour defects in the area around the property. The report of the county post-supervisory operation concludes that there is likely to be a link between the odour disturbances and the exceedances that occurred at the landfill in 2007. This is very unfortunate. Immediately after the supervision action, Movar IKS assured the county council that the amount of waste going to the landfill in 2008 will be kept below the established limit of 40000 tonnes. Movar IKS is an intermunicipal waste company, and I am aware that the case is also being followed up locally in Moss municipality. I would like to stress that waste companies that violate the concession terms undermine the waste management legislation. Violations of concessional conditions can have negative environmental consequences and cause disadvantages to the community and the local population. On the basis of the information I have now received, I am confident that the County Council of Eastfold will now follow up the case with Movar IKS.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e819	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am pleased that the Council of State so clearly states that this is an illegal and unacceptable breach of the provisions. It is true that public authorities are often very careful to ensure that businesses and private individuals comply with all the laws, regulations and regulations. In this case, however, we see that the inter-municipal waste site has for years exceeded the concession limits, and has informed the County Environmental Protection Department about this, but the exceedances have been allowed to continue year after year, without the county having lifted a finger. Is the Council satisfied with the fact that the regional environmental authorities of the State have, in this way, been holding their heads under their arms and arms in ribbons, to put it a little simple?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e826	Let it not be the slightest doubt that the representative Engeset and I agree that there is no excuse for doing anything illegal or contaminating that you are state, municipal or intermunicipal. Accurately on the point, the same requirements must be imposed on all enterprises, whether they are wholly private, half private or quarter private, whether they are municipal, intermunicipal or state. Everyone shall comply with the legislation in force in Norway. It is difficult for me to decide whether the county should intervene earlier. The important thing now is that we have received a clear assurance from the County Council in Eastfold that the matter is now being followed up with Movar. The company has assured them that from now on they will abide by the rules laid down. Of course, we need to be in continuous dialogue with the county council to make sure that the supervisory responsibilities of the county council are fully implemented from now on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e833	I thank you for that additional response. There is much evidence that some municipal waste sites are so low in price in terms of the landfill charge that they attract significant quantities of waste from a large geographical area, far beyond their own geographical impact. This creates a kind of waste trafficking, which contributes to high emissions in transport, much lower sorting requirements than is environmentally appropriate, and ultimately undermines the cross-political objectives of waste and environmental policy. Can the Council of State be calm as Minister for the Environment of an environmental party such as SV and look at this?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e838	I agree with the representative Engeset that the issue of waste management is a topic where there is a great deal of mess in Norway and where we will need to gradually have a stricter regulation. We need to get better management of this. A proposal for a ban on the landfill of biodegradable waste is being addressed in the Ministry of the Environment and will lead to the development of alternative treatment capacities. There are also plans for the development of treatment facilities throughout the country. The waste shall be recovered in the future and recovered as energy through combustion and biogas production. So I agree with the basics that Engeset draws up, that this is an area where we have a significant job to do in the future, both in Moss and nationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e846	My question goes to the Minister for the Environment and Development: ‘The Reich Antikvaren has notified the rescue of Glambrua in Elverum. Brua is typical of time, but has never been regarded as some aesthetic pleasure. The bridge is a very central trajectory through Elverum and for traffic to Trysil as a ski resort. It's just a matter of time before you have to find new solutions with more capacity for traffic across Glomma and through Elverum. Fear is now great that the desire for peace will create problems in this way. Do the councils agree with the Riksantikvar in his assessments?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e855	I would first like to make it clear that Glambrua was protected by the Riksantikvaren by regulation of 17 April 2008 based on the Cultural Memory Act § 22a. Peace has been adopted in the light of the proposals of the State Road Administration for a protection plan. The protection plan has been drawn up in consultation with the Riksantikvaren. The peace of Glambrua is part of a greater conservation work where 40 of the bridges of the State Road Service have been satisfied. The peace is a follow-up to the project Statens Kulturhistorische Immobilien. The project presupposes a review of all state properties with a view to maintaining a representative selection of cultural memories for the future. The aim of this rescue is to maintain a range of road-related constructions and facilities representative of the historical development of the road network in Norway from around 1537 until now. The State Road Service is now preparing a management plan to describe how the maintenance of bridges is to be followed up in practice. The management plan will form the basis for future use of Glambrua. The municipality has been a consultative body during the work on the rescue and management plan. It appears from the draft management plan that the protection does not prevent the possible extension of the bridge or new bridge in addition. Let me also add that I do not want to decide whether Glambrua is a particularly beautiful construction work or not, but it is clear that it is difficult to have that starting point in the preservation of old construction works in Norway. There will normally be shared opinions about, locally and nationally, and it is obvious that we have a number of industrial property judgments and many other things, for example. build from architectural epochs, which don't necessarily appeal to me personally, but as there may be good reason to protect - although I had to think they aren't pretty, and also whether the representative Gundersen had to think that they are not the most beautiful construction works in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e868	It was well the Council of State softened its answer with the last comment. He said in his mind that this had been at the municipal hearing, and that one should cooperate locally. Then it's a little self-contradictory that you actually peace the one bridge that you haven't set up locally to be peaced. There are three bridges over Glomma at Elverum, and two of them have wanted the municipality to consider peace, and then it's the third one you can peace. It's actually a very central trajectory, and it's very difficult to find space around. We're not exactly lacking bodies that have the right to object to local democracy, and they judge by their own peculiarities. Then the municipality sits again and has to take the load and try to find a way through all of this. Does the Council of State see that there is a serious challenge here in relation to the ability of local democracy to find room for action for its own development and infrastructure?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e877	I think we have to accept that as far as cultural memory protection is concerned, there is a professional element in which one has to accept that the Riksantikvaren can go in and peace even in situations where there should not be a local mood for it. Every day I go past the Old Aker Church in Oslo, which I believe all people in Norway today would think is a worthy building, but the City Council in Kristania decided in its time that they could not afford to protect it. If you had followed local democracy that time, we wouldn't have any Old Aker church in Oslo. What you think in given historical periods is protective will change. Tastes and pleasures change. For all these reasons, we have the Riksantik product in order to enter and make a professional assessment of what should be protected. But - and that is important in this case - it should be facilitated that it should not have any impact on traffic over Glomma.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e882	I find it reassuring to take this into account. When it comes to the comparison between the Old Aker Church and the Elverum Bridge, it's going to be a little long. I think you might want to look back at the bridge in Elverum as something typical of a time, and then it might be a bit of a time, because now you're really hoping for a new big flood in Elverum that can bring you the whole bridge. It's actually the only bridge I've seen that's planned so low that it doesn't tolerate a real flood. It was a danger in 1995. I think the Council of State in and of itself has softened the answer a little bit, and that you do not put a stop to all developments around the bridge. But I also want to ask you to be a little careful about entering into this kind of decision on so central infrastructure issues in a municipality that is also at a stage where you have explored the future of the years that are being peaced here in the middle of the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e889	As I understand the formalities, the State Road Administration will create a management plan that will be crucial for the future use and exploitation of the bridge. This management plan will then be approved by the Riksantikvaren for this specific purpose, but it is very clear from the papers that this should be ensured in a way that does not cause any major inconvenience to traffic management. Otherwise, I will not contest the local competence of the representative, Gundersen, as to whether this bride should or should not disappear in Glomma. The representative of Gundersen knows that much better than I do, but I still want to remind you that what you have seen in different eras has been very different. Many of the finest buildings, bridges, churches we have in Norway today were viewed as absolute demolition objects in earlier times. It was in its time planned a six-field highway around the Castle here in Oslo, which had significant upsurge in Oslo City Council at the time. I doubt that some thinking people would think it made sense today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e899	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘Many municipalities, enterprises and organisations are engaged in the development of alternative and climate-friendly fuels. Several of these have merged in the project to realize a hydrogen route between Stavanger and Oslo. Several see the work for a more environmentally friendly future in the context of a potential for economic development. However, many of the projects are pending because of a lack of funding from the State budget. How will the Council of State contribute to the realisation of the ‘Hydrogenwegen’ project?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e908	The government prioritizes larger amounts of alternative and climate-friendly fuels than has happened during any previous government in this country. There are significant environmental benefits from developing new technologies that are more energy-efficient and environmentally friendly. The government therefore prioritises high-level actions and instruments that can identify the use of new fuels and technologies that can reduce CO2 emissions and other environmentally harmful emissions from the transport sector. In 2008, the government granted 33.6 million. kr to project related to R & D and demonstration of new and more environmentally friendly fuel and transport technologies over the Ministry of Transport’s budget. The 2008 approval is a record increase of more than 10 million. kr, or 45 pst., compared to the 2007 openings. The Ministry of Transport's support for R & D in environmentally friendly transport technologies is channelled through the Norwegian Research Council and the RENERGI programme. It is the Research Council that allocates the funds between the different R & D activities and determines the amount to be allocated, for example. The HyNor project and how much to allow for the other project. Over several years, the majority of the social benefits have gone to HyNor and other hydrogen projects. From 2007 to 2008, the Ministry of Transport has increased its support through the Research Council for hydrogen projects from 17.3 million. NOK 19.3 million. kr. HyNor's ratings increase from 6.5 million. SEK in 2007 to SEK 9.2 million. kr in 2008. At the same time, the Government has also strengthened the support for research on second-generation biofuels. I am also pleased with the outcome of the climate agreement, where it was decided to establish the Transnova project in 2009. The climate agreement says that Transnova will have to dispose of 50 million. kr annually from 2009 to 2011. The Ministry of Transport is now working closely with the external trade union environment to define the tasks of Transnova. Although it is early to say something about Transnova's tasks, it is obvious that the project will significantly strengthen the Government's commitment to environmentally friendly transport solutions. When it comes to other tools aimed specifically at hydrogen vehicles, I would like to mention that hydrogen vehicles have an exemption from the one-off charge. Fuel cell hydrogen vehicles also have an exemption from the annual fee, the right to pass public road bombings free of charge and the right to park in public parking spaces free of charge. The government also recently granted permission to use combustion engine hydrogen vehicles to use interconnector fields on the same line as hydrogen vehicles with fuel cells and electric vehicles.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e928	I thank the Minister for Transport for the answer. This year, only 29 million will be granted. kr for alternative fuel research over the Ministry of Transport's budget, and only 2 million. kr is set aside for the construction of a hydrogen pump station in Oslo. Missing appropriations may cause the entire project to be frozen. The climate agreement, which was also discussed by the Council of State, requires the Government to increase its commitment to research and development of climate technologies. Can the Council of State guarantee that the Government will increase the investment in research and development of hydrogen technology?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e937	As I did well in my answer, we've all increased the permits for hydrogen projects, including in the current year's budget, by 2 million. kr, and the permissions of HyNor explicitly increased from 6.5 million. NOK to SEK 9.2 million. kr. It is not the Ministry of Transport that defines how the funds are used explicitly, what is going to be used to build pumping stations, and what is going to go to other development projects. That competence in the Research Council. We tend to give the permissions, which then have increased, to this important field. Of course, we are concerned that they should be used well, and have no reason to doubt that the Research Council has the competence to manage the funds where they do the best for themselves in the development of future solutions to hydrogen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e942	I thank you again for the answer. The hydrogen project in Oslo, HyNor Oslo, hopes for an additional 10 million. kr in the revised national budget. The project, which involves the construction of production facilities and hydrogen filling stations, and up to four buses and 20 cars on hydrogen, has just applied to the Research Council, at the RENERGI programme, for funding for the implementation of the project. For 2008, the project was allocated 2 million. NOK, as stated, with a further 10 million commitment. kr in 2008 if the RENERGI programme is provided with sufficient fresh funds in the revised national budget. Can the Council of State promise to look at this and set aside funds for this important project in the revised budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e951	What is prioritised in the revised national budget will be discussed in these days of the Government. Of course, if the project that was mentioned by the representative Tenden will come into this competition, I cannot answer today. The answer comes back when the revised national budget is presented. But it's definitely an exciting project. I have been involved in opening the hydrogen pumping station, and so has my State Secretary, so we are absolutely concerned that we should get the "Hydrogenvegen" between Oslo and Stavanger in place, because it is a project that also has international significance. It's in several contexts that Norway is actually the world's lead when it's up to coming to such solutions. So it's definitely an important project, but the funds I promise I'll never go out before the budget is presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e961	«In the evening post Monday 28 April d.o.b. the focus has once again been on the fact that the gradual development of large-scale transport projects not only leads to longer implementation times but also leads to increased costs. Overall development can provide a faster and more reasonable solution, but requires clear and predictable long-term funding, such as: through long-term government loans rather than annual government budget appropriations. What will the Council of State do to change the financing system for major road and rail transport projects?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e968	The representative, Mr Sortevik, has taken up the question of the financing system for transport projects in several contexts, both in the oral Question Time and as private legislative proposals. I am of course in agreement that we should have an effective development of a civil society project, so that we do not have a higher cost than is necessary. There is a great need both to maintain existing infrastructure and to build new ones. This government has thus increased the permissions of the commercial project compared to the previous government - a government for which the Progress Party was a supporting party. We have increased the annual permits for road and rail by over 2.5 billion kr compared to the previous government. And while the previous government started building a lot of projects with small start-up permissions, which have given big bonds for recent years, we in this government have chosen a different strategy. But in such a context, where a large number of small-loans projects are launched, it is easier to blame the funding system than to give priority to it. Without regard to how we finance transport projects, we must give priority to transport and other purposes and between different transport projects. No form of funding can take that responsibility from us, as the Progress Party is trying to create an impression of. In their draft National Transport Plan 2010-2019, transport networks have taken stock of the question of financing major projects in order to achieve optimal progress. An overarching concern must be that we have a system that ensures investment projects contribute to rational progress throughout the deployment phase when the projects are first started. As previously done well for, among others. in response to questions put by Mr Sortevik in Question Time on 6 February of this year, the Government will refer the matter back to the General Report on the National Transport Plan 2010-2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e981	Thank you for the predictable answer. The Council of State masters the art of repetition to perfection. It's little productive to look back, and it's little productive to continue to blame on the previous government when you've been in your own government for three years. What is the main focus of the representative of Sortevik when he has addressed this before, and probably will continue to address this, is to get a system change that will allow us to advance the development of large projects with clear funding. The focus of the evening post is that we lose a lot of time building slowly. I have noticed that one of the comments made in the Evening Post on 28 April is former Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen of the Workers' Party, who proposes that the Railway Agency be transformed into a ‘State undertaking capable of borrowing with long repayment periods’. Does the Council of State see that this can be a solution that can lead to faster and more reasonable development of both rail and road?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e990	When it applies to the possibility of mastering repeatability, I have to repeat that it also has the representative Sortevik. It's pretty neat what comes out of questions, and we've got similar questions both on 6 February, 23 April, etc. But we would like to talk about financing the transport sector. And when it comes to showing back, it's actually so that in order to show that we've given the transport sector a lift, we need to point out what level one operated on for just a short time back, when the Progress Party was just a supporting party for the previous government. It's not about looking back, but it's actually about getting a real picture that this government has taken care of traffic and given transportation a lift that one thought was difficult. There are different ways of financing transport, but one never gets past the fact that at the end of the day it will be about the willingness to prioritize the sector within the budgets that are still in force.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e1001	That is where the heart of the matter lies: within the established budget, which is a one-year expenditure budget. It is neither the Evening Post nor the representative of Sortevik that brings this up again, but it is actually the railway station that points out that the state would earn SEK 1.5 billion if you had built the Lysaker-Asker section in five years instead of ten. I have also noticed that one of the people who comments on this is the former State Council of the Workers Party, Matz Sandman, who calls today's way of granting money to the railway development for a'system error'. He goes on to say: ‘The State budget is not suitable for dealing with such investments. There is no distinction between consumption and investment, and the perspective is one year.’» That's a point of view that the Progress Party shares, and that emphasizes that the reason why we're taking this up again, and maybe have to take it up further, is that we need to change the system, so that we treat investments that last for 50 years, in a way other than expenditure that has been spent over a year.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e1015	After all, it is no secret that the centre party also shares the view that investment and operations should be viewed in different ways. I am now in a government that has chosen to stick to today's budgeting system, and I am submitting 100 pst. behind it. Just the Lysaker-Sandvika section, which was mentioned in the Evening Post, can be a good example of what this government is doing. I agree with what was said in the evening post, that if you had seen the whole project in context before you started it could have been something to pick up. But the thing is, then these projects had to have been delayed for many years. We have simply looked at the planning situation and the situation of municipalities, which should also be part of planning processes. It had meant a postponement in time of the concrete project. Although one with the previous government had to wait for funds, in our time in government we have added the funds that the Railway Agency has requested every year in order to have rational progress. It has been explicitly requested from me, it has been explicitly followed up, precisely because it is also within the existing budget to have an optimal progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e1023	I have a question for the Minister for Transport: ‘The outstanding representatives of the Railway Agency and research communities state that the Norwegian way of building rail costs billions of extra kroner. The Government does not wish to apply OPS models or its own proposal from Soria Moria, project financing. Does the Council agree that this is to waste valuable financial resources that could have been used on other projects?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e1032	I agree that railway projects should be developed as cheaply as possible within the planning requirements agreed for the individual projects. This applies without regard to the way in which the project is financed. The Ministry of Transport asked the Railway Agency in 2006 to make an assessment of the benefits that could have been gained if one had built up the entire West Corridor at one time with a more optimal progress, instead of now, with a parallel expansion and for periods without optimal propulsion of plants that had started up. In 2006, for example, The Stoltenberg II government has granted the permission to Lysaker Station with 25 Mio. kr to achieve more optimal progress in the project. The railway works review showed that it would be possible to reduce construction costs monthly. However, the greatest socio-economic benefit is that in a combined and rapid expansion, the full double-track could have been used at an earlier stage. I would like to point out that the plans for the expansion of the double track in the West Corridor were dealt with in St.meld. No 46 for 1999-2000, National Transport Plan 2002-2011. The main reason for this was the decommissioning of the railway capacity on the route, and the urgent need to start the development, even if there were no agreed plans for the whole route. This government has the principle that projects that have been started should be run as rationally as possible. I think the extension of the railway project in the West Corridor is a good example of this. A total of SEK 1.6 billion has been raised for the construction projects still under way in the West Corridor for 2007 and 2008. I would like to remind the representative Halleraker of the change of pace that came in Norwegian transport policy with the change of government. The expansion of the West Corridor did not have optimal propulsion. The government's supplementary appropriations were added to the 2006 budget proposal from the Bondevik II government and the further escalation we have had, so that the iron track's investment budget is now more than 50 pst. We have decided that we are now progressing in the West Corridor. When we took over, the project was in danger of having to stop. I also notice that the Government has taken the required decision to postpone the start of projects that have been already started, including the following: Barkåker-Tønsberg, so that good progress can be achieved on the projects already in progress. So the government has all the important steps to take to ensure better use of the resources that go to the railroad. When it comes to the question of the use of OPS models or other forms of project financing, I would otherwise refer to my answer to question 6 from the representative Arne Sortevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e1049	I thank you for your answer. So in the example from the Railway Station with the Lysaker-Asker section, the state has lost NOK 1.5 billion. In addition, of course, the loss of business and society comes because things go late or even aren't started. From the road sector we know comparable motorway sections that are actually under construction now, under OPS and state control, respectively Grimstad-Kristiansand and E18 through Westfold. They have a rather comparable length and complexity, but the OPS project is built half-time, without exceedances and with spectacularly low sick leave and the type of costs involved. All evaluation of the OPS models points in one direction. Despite this, the Government is nodding. Can the Council of State live on the fact that nothing is happening here any longer, when the state is demonstrablely wasting its resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e1060	I am surprised that the representative Halleraker and Right are addressing this question, because it makes it quite clear that the representative's party has been sitting for four years and was wasting its resources. For four years, the Right was placed in a government that could have taken up this matter, but they did not even ensure rational progress within the budgets adopted. I must say that I am amazed when I read St. prp. No 1 for 2005-2006. It is apparent that the Bondevik II Government believes that a loan scheme for rail investment should not be used as the Norwegian State does not lack funds, as opposed to what is the basis for the use of alternative financing schemes in other countries. Here it is concluded that in the light of the administrative, cost and fiscal considerations of my Bondevik II Government, a government loan scheme for the financing of railway projects should not be established. For four years, right in government. This is the conclusion of the Right in Government. It means that when one comes out of government offices, one really forgets what one meant.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e1069	I thank you again for the answer. The right in the government also shows that we started OPS projects with great success, and that was the background to my question. In Sweden, project funding is used as these government parties wrote that they would implement in Norway. Three years have passed, and we've seen little about it. The Botnia Railway is a 20-mile high-speed route that is realised in eight to ten years precisely within such a model, at an eye-catchingly low kilometer price. This is used, inter alia: the Swedish calls the National Debt Office a co-financer. In Norway we have had the Guarantee Institute for Export Credit for Ships and Drill rigs and ‘you name it’. But the company Botniabanen AB is owned by the public, and so it's the organization and structure here that makes them build so much faster and more rationally. What about the follow-up by the Council of State to its own promises in the Soria Moria Declaration on this type of organisation in Norway, namely project financing?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e1085	First of all, this Council of State is setting in motion a decision under the auspices of the Railway Agency to see if there is anything to be gained from having a coherent development and, if necessary, from another financing. Not even that had the right of government imagination to get started. When it comes to the issue of whether or not the Government will assess project funding, we have received input in connection with the draft National Transport Plan from the budgets that play up to such a discussion. Of course, I will ensure that this discussion is signed, and the answer to this will have to be in the notice of cancellation of the National Transport Plan to the House.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e1095	Let me start by saying thank you for yesterday to the Minister of Justice and then ask the following questions: ‘More and more people experience being exposed to identity theft here in the country. People feel that they're being blamed, that they're being blacklisted because of it. non-payment and other inconveniences. As far as I am aware, today there is no complete overview of how many people are affected by such conditions each year. What measures does the Council of State consider necessary to combat this type of crime?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e1104	I will also be allowed to thank you for yesterday and for the debate that was held in Stortinget. It's always a pleasure to be able to tell you about all the good results we have in the field of justice. We find identity thefts and the use of false identity in several variants. There is a distinction between the use of false identity for financial crime and other misuse of identity. A common example of economic identity theft is the use of false credentials, for example: at the counter of a bank or post office upon withdrawal from another person's account or when to raise a loan. Another type of identity theft is if a person sends out e-mails, text messages, mails or the like that are sent in order to come from another person than the sender. Id thefts are a growing problem internationally. In particular, North America and England have had a marked increase in this form of crime. Norway has a per cent share of the EU average. the current date does not make clear figures as to how the development is in this country. The responsibility for implementing and implementing measures that can limit the number of identity thefts lies with many, both consumers – i.e. us – private businesses and the public. Preventing, detecting and combating identity thefts require awareness and effort. Each individual may, by exercising prudence, contribute to the most difficult access to information that can be misused. Furthermore, the service provider has a specific responsibility to provide a secure service. I want to add: As far as crime is concerned, perhaps this field is where it is most accessible for prevention purposes and most difficult to investigate. Information security is therefore something that this government takes seriously. The Ministry of Renewal and Administration is responsible for coordinating the work on preventive information security in the public sector. As part of this, they work on raising awareness and building skills and have published national guidelines on information security. The public is responsible for the robustness of security solutions in passport identification documents. Furthermore, I would like to mention the proposal for a government issued national ID card, which has been at the hearing. It is proposed that, in addition to being a generic identity card, the card may also be used as a travel document within the Schengen area and may contain a separate tag for the storage of electronic ID and signature. We aim to promote a legislative proposal on this as soon as possible. To combat identity thefts by the police, extensive cooperation with both public and private actors is important. In particular, this precautionary measure applies, i.e.: to prevent the stolen and misuse of identities. The police are involved here in several arenas involving public and private actors. A number of working groups have been established, including, inter alia: The main organisation of the financial industry, the Post, banks and NAV, where challenges are faced in relation to such id-thefts. Central to the preventive work is to investigate the I.D. thefts that are reported. Furthermore, it is important to develop cooperation with ‘professional’ notifiers, such as: banks. Today’s legislation does not contain a criminal order that only affects identity thefts, but it affects, among other things. of the provisions on false documents, false explanations, etc. False identity is also used to gain unauthorised access to the kingdom, we are familiar with it. Against this background, the Ministry of Justice has taken the initiative to get legislation on this which is clearer, clearer and more specific. We have now had the Norwegian public investigation into legal measures against cybercrime at the hearing. The data crimuth selection has, among other things: proposed a specific criminal order affecting identity theft in electronic communications. It is also aimed at promoting a legislative proposal for the Stortinget by the end of 2008. In the police, work has been undertaken to improve the way in which these criminal cases are recorded. There are concrete proposals on the registration of criminal provisions relating to offenders who have been violated and modes, i.e. procedure. This could provide a better overview of the number of cases related to id thefts in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e1132	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I see very positively. It is reassuring to hear that the Department and the Government are actively working on this. It is also a fact that the Ministry of Justice has overall responsibility, among other things. in terms of overall social security - internally, but also towards the other departments - to look at the whole of this. Social vulnerability affecting individuals will, of course, also affect society as such. Therefore, it is important to have a high level of activity to combat it. The same thing I assume will apply to access to so-called sensitive information about individuals and others in this setting. I think of information about personal finances, which is one thing, but also about other knowledge that individuals had to sit on. What I still want to challenge the Council of States is whether through his working groups he will actually try to get access to the amount of money there is this year. How much is the social cost of it - as finance companies, banks, individuals themselves and others have to take to figure out the volume of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e1141	First of all, I would like to reiterate that in the critical infrastructure we are facing in Norway, we have traditionally talked about the more physical, visible and clear infrastructure - water, power, etc. But it's quite obvious that a new arena -- which is a growing arena, which also requires attention -- is the id sector, in terms of being able to outplay a society. We take this so seriously that a substantial part of the big message that is now just around the corner is about coordinating and strengthening civil protection in relation to that vulnerability. The notification will be soon, and measures will be put in place to address this issue. So it's clear that this can be about big values, and it's about big values for many. We don't have a complete overview of that. It will be difficult to get a complete overview of this as well. But I'll take the call. I think it'll be important more to get ready for it, because it'll mobilize not only us, but also others.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e1148	I thank you again for the answer. There are two things I want to ask the Council of State about in my last question. One is, to what extent are we dependent on international cooperation to solve this? I assume that much of what happens is not necessarily self-produced in Norway, but that you also get ‘help’ from people with a different nationality than Norwegian. That's the one. The second is, when talking about the review of legislation, will the Council of State take initiative and look at how people who are exposed to id-theft are treated? I have received feedback that you do not necessarily feel well cared for by the Norwegian police when it comes to being believed, or not being believed, and not least the trust crisis you may be exposed to as suspected by crime done by others, while you are left with a - we shall call it - responsible responder systemically. I want the Council of State to say something about international cooperation, but also whether he will take account of going in and looking at problems that individuals may be affected by in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e1159	Finally, it is quite clear that those who are subjected to all kinds of criminal acts are entitled to be treated with all possible respect, not only by the police, but also by civil society, whether it be banks or post offices. It should be at the bottom of all kinds of legislation. But that doesn't prevent us from investigating this type of serious crime, we need to operate with quite strict evidence requirements in order to be able to claim that something criminal has happened, and place that responsibility with someone. For some people it might be considered not to be believed that you don't have enough evidence. There we all have an explanation problem. Not only in the political debate, but also in the Norwegian court, it is a task to explain that it does not necessarily mean that the person who has reported a relationship is either a cellar or is deliberately lying. There's always an important context. As far as this crime is concerned, it may be one of the reasons why we want more intensive international cooperation within Schengen, but also within the Prüm cooperation that is now taking place in Europe. I think it is absolutely vital that we get more information that can help, among other things. reducing this type of crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e1170	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Knowledge: «In the next few years, there will be a great need for competent public sector labour. But the new health profession, introduced in the autumn of 2006, is struggling with recruitment. Despite the project of recruitment patrols in secondary and secondary schools, the number of applicants in most counties has fallen. In addition, only half of the students complete their education by letter of formal qualifications. By 2020, there is a need for 20 000 health professionals, including: nursing homes in Norway. What will the Council of State do to create commitment to the subject?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e1179	The public sector, as the representative Anne Margrethe Larsen says, has a great need for competent labour. In the tight labour market, there are many industries that are fighting about the attention of young people. Today we have approx. 31,000 apprentices in training, most in the private sector. Overviews show that there is a clear potential for more apprenticeship places within some disciplines aimed at working before the public, especially in the health and care sector. Furthermore, the lack of labour in the health and care sector makes it particularly important to add more apprentices here. One of the challenges in this sector is that the health workers who have been outsourced do not work in the field of health. The 2008 search case for health and social subjects and for the health profession show a slight decrease from 2007. Generally speaking, there has been a decline in the number of elephants looking for a place to learn. The knowledge lift, with new educational programmes and apprenticeships, makes it difficult to compare with the search results for the year. So it's hard to know what's causing the decline. The health profession was introduced as a new subject with the reform of the Knowledgelift. It takes time to introduce a new subject and to provide good and sufficient information, not least to employers and counselors in schools, but also to young people, parents and teachers and to the media. The government is looking at the need for skilled labour in municipalities. In St. prp. No 1 for 2007-2008 by the Ministry of Health and Welfare, it has been assessed on some uncertain basis that there is a need for additional 12000 year-olds in the care service during the period 2008-2015. The government will improve the dimensioning of various training courses needed within the municipal sector, in order to ensure a sufficient number of qualified health and care staff, the kindergarten sector and the basic school. It is a work involving both educational authorities and health authorities. Measures are in place to increase the interest of the health profession in the future. In St.meld. No 16 for 2006-2007 by the Ministry of Knowledge, the main advisory service is mentioned and actions related to it are presented. Good advice can make young people see opportunities in health and care professions. In order to increase the provision of apprenticeships both in the private and public sectors, the Education Directorate has launched the ‘Start with an apprentice’ information campaign. On the campaign website, employers can find information about the apprenticeship system and contact persons in the county. In the summer of 2006, the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Health and Welfare encouraged the municipalities to include more apprentices, especially in the health and care sectors. The exposure of the health worker may be built up over time. The good outlook on the labour market in this field could make education more attractive in the future. The reputation and information will be important for the health profession. Health professionals have therefore been started in connection with the new subject. Initiatives have been launched by KS, HSH and Specter, with the support of the Education Directorate and the Health Directorate. Action by health professionals shall ensure professional recruitment by creating engagement through recruitment patrols, county championships, NM in the field of health and other activities. The action will continue in 2008. Where it has our recruitment campaigns, it has had a good effect. The operation has created local involvement. It is therefore important that this work is continued. The Knowledgelift introduced a new subject, project for deepening. This subject can be used for dissemination and recruitment. I know that several hospitals have had youth in for a project to deepen. Good organisation, both from school and from hospitals, is a key to making it work. Regular dialogue between the social partners and education authorities is important. In cooperation with the Minister of Health and Welfare, I will follow up the dialogue with KS when it comes to this new subject in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e1200	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. According to the calculations I have obtained from the Statistical Centre, by 2025 there will be a shortage of 26 000 health and care workers. It is a huge number, and it presents great challenges for both society, high school and high school counselling, as the Council of State said. With a large number of older and cross-political agreement that we should have a clear quality improvement in care for the elderly, we have a rather long way to go. Today, many nursing homes have unskilled employees. Does the Council see that the lack of qualified staff threatens the quality of care for the elderly in the municipalities, since it is not possible to provide enough qualified health workers?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e1209	I totally agree that we have a very big challenge when it comes to recruiting skilled labour in general in many areas of society. But especially in the health and care sector, we are facing major recruitment challenges for years to come. This is the basis for the government to have a clear target of 10,000 more annual works in this period, where we are very well placed. But figures have been provided that show that there is still a need for years to come, precisely because the quality of care for the elderly depends on having a competent person working there with the good job they can do. That's why we follow the health profession very closely. A number of steps have been taken to get the recruiter up, and we're going to continue with them, as I said in my first answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e1216	I thank you again for the Council's reply. One of the objectives of the 2015 Competence Plan, to which the Council of State was committed, is to increase the gross access of health workers to about 4 500 per year. years through this cooperation project, as also mentioned by the Council of State. So the recruitment process has gone down a little bit. At the same time, a lot of people end up in the middle of their education. Many adults have taken a letter in this education, and that's very good. But does the Council of State see that in this typical low-wage job, with tough working conditions in everyday life, there are major challenges in involving young people in this education?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e1225	It's, as I said, a little bit difficult to compare directly with previous years. I'm still worried that we see what's probably a slight decrease in search terms. That's why we keep up the special focus on recruitment, with different measures, but also, together with the Ministry of Health and Health, we're going to have a dialogue with KS and, at times, we're going to assess whether it's going to be done even more to ensure recruitment, by getting more apprenticeships. Not least to spread information and knowledge about a new subject is something you need to run with over time. It cannot be fully effective from the start. I just want to confirm that I fully agree that this is a very important challenge. I also believe the way we talk about the subject and working in the care of the elderly is very important. Here's the probing jobs -- important jobs for society -- that are given high priority. Here we have a great need for labour for years to come, and it will be easy to find a job.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e1237	«State company Secora is responsible for the implementation of the sludge deposit in Inner Oslofjord. Among other things, the company was notified by the SFT for environmental crime after sludge was not deposited, but was released directly into the spring. In April it leaked 200-300 cubic metres of contaminated sediment from a barge. Could the State Council, as the owner of Secora, explain how Secora has come into such a situation and what measures are being taken to prevent further environmental problems in ‘Inner Oslofjord?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e1244	It is very regrettable that Secora AS has carried out unregulated emissions. Following the events in September 2007, the Department of Secora’s management called for a meeting. The Ministry then made it clear that the management of the company needed immediate action to deal with the situation. The Governing Board of Secoras immediately contacted external expertise to investigate all relevant aspects of the project in Oslofjorden. The Norwegian Veritas was engaged to review quality systems, procedures and procedures in the company's work. The deviations from working procedures found by individuals in the Norwegian Veritas. There were otherwise no systematic breaches of procedures on the holding. However, emissions have resulted in 0,45 pst. of the masses unregulated and between 2 and 9 cubic metres of septic steel released. The board of directors of the company engaged the Norwegian Institute for Water Research in order to clarify the possible environmental consequences of the irregular emissions revealed by the Norwegian Veritas. NIVA has concluded that the pollution is marginal and is within the emission permit granted to the project by the State pollution authority. However, it is clear that any unregulated emissions are unacceptable. Secora’s activities shall be governed by the laws, regulations and administrative provisions in force. If the company has committed a crime, the company must of course be able to do so. SFT has notified Secora of a breach of the permit for the landfill of masses at the Malmøykalven. The ministry is now awaiting final report after the police report of this relationship. As the representative of Syversen refers to, Secora was also exposed to an accident in April this year. The management of the company has taken the necessary measures to that end. Studies carried out so far show that the masses released from the M079 in April are due to a mechanical failure of the lighter’s mate. This lighter was prepared by the Drammen Ship repair according to normal routines before it was put into service in the work of the depot on the Malmoykalven. The vessel was further classified and inspected by the maritime authorities by March 2008 at the latest. The fume of the lighter was opened and closed, and there were no signs of defects in the closing system. The vessel was then approved by the Administration. On Friday 11 April this year, a smaller opening in a sink was discovered on the lighter. Secora initiated measures based on experience and common procedures to keep the cage closed. The company believed that it was proper to keep the vessel moored at the depot until Monday morning. And yet there was a smaller emission. The company has notified that there is a need for a review of the circumstances in order to bring facts to the table as to how about 200-300 cubic metres of mass could leak from the vessel. I stress that the barge on the barge is now closed, and the barge has been removed from production. The company has put in place measures to check whether the system itself to keep the device closed was correct. Samples of the leaks have been sent for analysis at Rambøll Norge AS. The different meters around the landfill have not captured the spread of sediment above the permitted level during the weekend. The Ministry awaits full information from the company's board on the matter after the internal investigations have been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e1263	I thank the Council of State for the answer. As the Council of State is probably familiar with, it is a very controversial project that is now being carried out in Inner Oslofjord. I am sure that the Council of State also knows that the party traps of the Council of State in Oslo are not particularly enthusiastic about the so-called cleanup that is now taking place at the Malmøykalven, and that could have been done in another way. I'll let that lie. With it in mind that this is such a controversial project, one would think that the actors would be particularly careful that everything happened within the framework of laws and regulations, and that as far as possible, trouble was avoided. It hasn't happened. So we've had two events that the Council of State itself referred to. My question is: does the Council of State feel sure that the company has the necessary responsibility to ensure safety?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e1274	As I have explained in my answer, the government in Secora has followed up the events that have been associated with the project in Oslofjorden. There has been a very thorough review of what happened in September. It was because individuals made mistakes. Those people no longer work in the company today. No errors have been identified in the procedures and systems themselves. As for what happened in April, the company also has a thorough review of it. So this is something that the company's board takes for granted, and that the department is also following closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e1281	I get the mark in the last council of state said, that this will follow closely up the department. I understand that you have full confidence in the board of directors and the company as such in the follow-up to these events that makes the population question whether this project can be called an environmental project any longer. On the contrary, there are many on the Nesodden, not least, and in that part of Oslo this affects, which seems to have become something quite different than the title of the project, namely Ren Oslofjord. I would like to hear from the Council of State, which is, of course, a meeting in Secora, if she personally will now proactively follow the company's further work on this clearing-up project.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e1290	I can assure you that the department has been and will be both active and proactive in following up the company, and the company's board of directors has also taken the events that have been revealed seriously. Setting up a sludge deposition project, or deciding on it, is a matter that lies outside my remit. It is a project run by the Municipality of Oslo, Oslo Havn. It's the SFT that's the supervisory board for it, so I'm going to be careful to have views on this matter in this room. My responsibility is to ensure that Secora as a state-owned company deals with laws and regulations. I will follow it carefully also in the continuation, and I have full confidence that the board will do the job they should and must do in this respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-07.ana.ud368e1297	Then the ordinary questionnaire is over, and the current map is finished. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
