ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower.ana.ud1006e52	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of Odelstingen's meeting today - and see it as a deal. The President will propose Marit Nybakk. - Other proposals are not in line, and Marit Nybakk is elected by consensus as President of Odelstinget's meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower.ana.ud1006e62	The representative, Anders Anundsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower.ana.ud1006e65	It is a pleasure on behalf of the representatives Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, Vigdis Giltun and myself to submit proposals for changes to the Health Care Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower.ana.ud1006e70	The legislative proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that matters 1, 2 and 3 be dealt with together. - That's to look at as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower.ana.ud1006e108	The President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Work Party 30 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes and Left 10 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a replacement of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of the parties and up to five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - That's to look at as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower.ana.ud1006e119	It's a big and basically very important thing we're going to deal with tonight, the greatest odelsting proposition ever. The law in force dates from 1988. Changes in the number of immigrants and the composition of the immigrant population require a new foreign law. In the proposal, the Foreign Affairs Act is maintained as a comprehensive law covering all themes within the foreign field. An important change is the inclusion and regulation of several fundamental issues in the law. Thus, the size of the population has a stronger influence over immigration regulation, and the influence of the people through the voting system is strengthened. The Red-Green Government wants to conduct a humane, solidarity and legally secure refugee policy. The new Foreign Affairs Act strengthens and clarifies the individual’s rights, and the international obligations of Norway are made more visible. In addition, the role of the UNHCR has been reinforced by the emphasis on recommendations from the UNHCR, in particular on protection issues. The setting includes some decorations and some tightening in addition to several preparations. Overall, there will be no significant increase or decrease in the number of people allowed to stay. There is agreement on the main features of immigration regulation in the people. As the rapporteur, I welcome the broad agreement on the main points of the new Foreign Affairs Act in the Committee's vote. In the law we adopt today, as before, people who comply with the requirements of the Refugee Convention will be granted asylum. In addition, those who are protected against return based on other conventions because of their risk of torture, death penalty or other unworthy treatment will be granted refugee status. Today’s legislation allows this group of asylum seekers to stay on a humanitarian basis for protection reasons. The improvement of the law is welcomed by the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. In addition, the UNHCR recommendations shall weigh heavily on the interpretation of the Refugee Convention. This is a follow-up to the Soria Moria Declaration, which says that the Government will conduct a refugee policy that takes more account of the recommendations of the UNHCR. It makes a clarification of membership of a special social group in line with the recommendations of the UNHCR. Especially in today’s conflict picture, where there is often a struggle between different fractions and groupings in a country, and not so often between countries, this clarification is important in order to ensure protection for persecuted people. The rights and special needs of children have been made more visible in new foreign law. The inclusion of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child in the Norwegian Law is thus reflected. The Soria Moria Declaration states that the Government will work towards better consistency between the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Foreign Affairs Administration. This has been an important matter for the red-greens in the work on a new foreign law. A number of other reinforcements of children's rights are proposed, which unfortunately I do not have time to review in my post, but which others from the Labour Party will touch on in this debate. The new Foreign Affairs Act provides for a specific gender perspective in refugee law assessments. There is an important clarification of women's rights. The classical refugee during the time of the refugee convention, in the years following World War II, was a man who was persecuted for political activity against the regime in his homeland. In today’s conflicts, women are particularly vulnerable to abuse and threats to life and health. It is also important to take into account that women are exposed to a different type of persecution and abuse situation than men, because they are women. Women fleeing sexual mutilation, coercion, atrocities, and assault in the form of sexual violence. It is important to upgrade the legislation to develop specific guidelines for dealing with issues relating to gender-related persecution. There is a cross-political consensus that Norway should also grant residence to individuals who do not have requirements for protection under international conventions. This will be the case where there are specific and weighty individual circumstances that should allow the applicant to remain in Norway. The new law will provide for residence if there are strong human considerations or the applicant has a special connection with the State. In order to address these often complex issues, the new law provides a broad judgement that provides guidance on the concerns and considerations involved. This concerns in particular health issues, issues relating to social and humanitarian conditions in the event of a return situation, or issues relating to trafficking in human beings. In addition, an explicit reference to the best interests of children has been given as a fundamental consideration in the assessment and it has been established that there is a lower threshold for granting authorisation to children than to adults. The law adopted today has a clear distinction between the people who cooperate on returns after final rejection, and those who do not. Applicants cooperating under certain conditions will be allowed to obtain a residence permit if it is not possible to return. For those who do not cooperate, no new rights are granted. No major changes are currently being adopted for labour immigration. There will be a separate survey on labour immigration in the spring that will highlight all issues related to this topic. The right to family life is fundamental in a democracy. Of course, living with one’s family and being reunited with one’s family after coming to Norway is not to be suspected. The rules on family immigration affect an increasing proportion of the population in Norway, and are now at the heart of the debate on immigration policy. It is therefore important that the main provisions of this field are now incorporated into the law. The largest family immigration issue concerns issues where the reference person is a Norwegian or Nordic citizen. The right to family reunification applies to spouses and cohabitants, children under the age of 18 and lone parents over 60. The right of residence for consensual parents is extended in the new law for the sake of the child. Unfortunately, it turns out that the family reunification rules are also being abused, for example: by pro forma and coercion. I am therefore pleased that the law includes stricter and more targeted measures to combat abuse. A new general rule on maintenance and housing requirements is currently being adopted in order to counteract forced marriage and to strengthen integration. The resident in Norway should, as a general rule, be self-sufficient. The idea behind this is that those who are working themselves can more easily resist pressure from their family in relation to forced marriage. Only one’s own expected income can be included. Current maintenance requirements are increased from ltr. 1 to ltr. Eight. There will also be a requirement for equivalent income year before authorisation to be granted. Exception rules for the maintenance requirement will be included in the regulation. In any case, there will be exceptions for family members to refugees when family life was founded before the refugee arrived in Norway. There will also be exceptions for persons who are recipients of long-term social security benefits. The majority of the Committee emphasises the need to consider exemptions for those in long-term training courses. In this context, I would also like to stress that in the autumn of 2007, the Government presented a separate action plan on forced marriage. The government is fulfilling the promises of the Soria Moria Declaration also in this field. The new Foreign Affairs Act is important for Norway to be able to manage the immigration field itself. It contains clear grips that will strengthen the position of the persecuted. We are following this long tradition in Norway, which is about taking care of the weakest. This is a field in which there are clearly political dividing lines. In the course of the debate, we will see that the opposition cracks in all directions, as they do in the remarks. We will see that there is no basis for civil cooperation in this field at all, and that it seems that citizens in this field will not be able to make a credible alternative to today's government either.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower.ana.ud1006e161	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower.ana.ud1006e164	In the vote, the Progress Party has a comment, in other words, together with the Right, where we point out that family immigration poses a challenge for the welfare society. It's not an eye-catching remark in itself. What is alarming, on the other hand, is that only the Progress Party and the Right are behind that remark. You have to go somewhere in order not to get reality out there, if you don't realize that we have a lot of problems getting immigrants to work in a lot of areas. We have major challenges in relation to the over-exploitation of public benefits among immigrants. Why can't the Workers' Party see this issue? Or is it the SV that has put your foot down here too?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower.ana.ud1006e169	Family reunification issues and family start-up issues are one of the most relevant issues in the Norwegian debate on immigration. We want Norway to be an open nation. We see that migration today is changing the world. People travel more across borders, people study in other countries, people establish friendships and close relationships across borders to a much greater extent today than they did before. Clearly, we need a policy that takes into account both the need for people and the desire to bring in spouses and children, while at the same time having to have a regulated immigration in this field. We have some restrictions on the legislation in this field, but also some liberalisation. This will not result in many more people or, in particular, many fewer who enter through family reunification or establishment. I also assume that there are advance party voters who want to pick up both their spouse and children, and that is how the representative Amundsen gets an answer to his own choice on his own.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower.ana.ud1006e174	For several years now, Norwegian industry and public Norway have pointed out that labour shortages are the main challenge in getting jobs done and getting further growth. It has now been three years since the Right made a number of proposals to improve the system of labour migration. At the time, we were told by the Workers' Party that these ideas and proposals would be followed up in proposals for a new foreign law. Today we have proposals for a new foreign treatment law. Today, the Labour Party says that this should be followed up in a separate growth message on labour immigration. When will the Workers' Party realise that this has now been an acute problem for years that should have been addressed much earlier? And why is the Labour Party voting against these small changes in the Foreign Affairs Act that are needed to clean up this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower.ana.ud1006e183	So it is not just the Right that has understood that we have a shortage of labour in this country. Both companies and public authorities report that a limiting factor today is just a shortage of labour, and we are taking it most seriously. The government is systematically simplifying the legislation, but also allowing Norway to be better profiled abroad. In this way, the Committee has also been travelling, among other things. in Rogaland, where we see that municipalities, businesses and the public jointly are able to do good recruitment work alongside the national work being done. Then we're going to make a big message about labour immigration because we think it's important to go through this field in a whole way, and not just touch it with people moving across borders. Because it is also about mobilising a good part of the domestic labour force that is leaving the job today, by having better arrangements so that people who are out of work today are given the opportunity to work. But it is also important to clarify in the end that the proposals that come in the big message will not be realised at a later date than they would have been had we adopted it in the context of the Foreign Affairs Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower.ana.ud1006e192	The representative Stokkan-Grande said to Stavanger Aftenblad that the reason for not having a separate chapter on labour immigration in the Foreign Affairs Act was that the Foreign Affairs Act should not enter into force until 2010, and that action is urgent. I agree that action is urgent, but I do not understand why the government parties could not have supported the measures and proposals that the Right, Left and Christian People's Party have agreed on in terms of short-term measures that would help resolve the labour migration situation. So my question is, can we trust that the offensive grip that the opposition is now proposing in this round, will come as a suggestion from the Government in a short time?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower.ana.ud1006e201	As I said in the reply to the previous reply, the government is today in the final phase of the work on a new big business message to be submitted to the Stortinget in the course of spring. There we will go through this whole field in a systematic and thorough way, looking at what we can do to mobilise domestic labour, what we can do to bring people from EU and EEA territory, but also what we can do to bring people in from third countries. There is a need for a complete and proper review of this field because it is so serious and so important to the business community in Norway. And Bjørg Tørresdal is going to feel absolutely certain that the proposals that the opposition has made are being dealt with in a thorough manner, and she should not ignore the fact that we agree on quite a number of things in that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower.ana.ud1006e208	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower.ana.ud1006e212	Norway is facing major challenges in the field of immigration. First of all, we are struggling to integrate the people that we have already received in Norway over several decades with quite massive immigration into the Kingdom. We have major challenges in terms of labour participation among immigrants from a number of groups, we experience a high level of public benefit consumption, and we also have problems related to crime. At the same time, we experience that Norwegian society is changing. To a large extent, it is not the immigrants who adapt to Norwegian society, but the very opposite, that Norwegian society is adapting to immigrants. And it's a problem, all the time that you're not consistent and resolute on the basic values that this nation and our cultural community are based on. When one is not willing in the name of dialogue to stand firm for freedom of expression, when one does not take over the discrimination of a good number of immigrant women, experience in one's own family life, when one does not take the consequences of this, one should at least address a completely different immigration policy where one reduces the annual migration to Norway. Unfortunately, the government makes the opposite. In the proposal for a foreign law that the three government parties are behind, one goes in the opposite direction. The concept of refugee is extended, more people become refugees under the new law, more people will get asylum under the new law, and then you don't think about the relationship between the rules you have in the field of asylum on the one hand, and the number of applicants you know will be given on the basis of a liberal policy on the other. It is therefore indisputable that the countries that have a strict asylum policy in particular, but also a strict immigration policy in general, are also the countries that have the lowest migration rates. To give some examples: in Finland, there was an asylum immigration of the large number of 12 people in 2005. In 2004, the figure was 29. Denmark has suffered a radical decline in its immigration, precisely because they have tightened their rules. Some hundreds of people got asylum in Denmark last year. So we have a government going in the opposite direction. We already see that today. In a situation where the countries around us in Europe are tightening up immigration, tightening up their respective foreign policy, Norway is moving in the opposite direction. And it has already turned on asylum statistics today. We've had over twice as many asylum seekers to Norway this year as we had in the same period last year. I also record that this government has obviously not addressed the issue of forced marriage, namely the family immigration that is unwanted, where people abuse the possibilities of family immigration - because unfortunately, the measures that the government parties had to implement at the beginning of their drafting of new foreign law are not implemented at all. That is why the Progress Party has presented a complete alternative to the Government's legislative proposals. We have developed our own law. That law will be dealt with today, and I will briefly account for it. In the field of asylum, we are tightening up. We assume that those people who come to Norway and seek asylum, who are real asylum seekers, who need a place of refuge, who need protection, will receive that protection. But all the others, those who deliberately abuse and exploit a system that, in our opinion, is far too kind, they should not be allowed to stay in Norway at all. We will strongly insist on staying for so-called humanitarian reasons, but we are dealing with the Refugee Convention. People who need real protection will get it. We also want to introduce closed receptions, just to avoid some of the problems we see today, with asylum seekers who disappear from reception, who go underground and become illegal immigrants. We want to have closed receptions primarily for three groups: the ID-less, those that are considered to pose a security risk, and, of course, people who have to be returned. Pending return, we're going to use internment as a solution. This is not at all contrary to the fundamental principles of the Norwegian rule of law. We use fundamental principles in terms of both time-limiting and judicial procedures. These principles are well respected in the Progress Party's legislative proposals. With regard to quota refugees, people who come here through the transmission system, we are quite clear about the policy. We are introducing a new concept: integration policy considerations. It is about the same concept that Denmark has introduced in its legislation that the quota system seeks to integrate refugees that are easily integrated into Danish society. We're going to apply the same principle. Rather, we take in refugees of nationality who, in experience, are considered to be easily integrated in Norway, than the very opposite, pick up people from countries to which we know there is a problem of integration. At the same time, we say that all right, when we pick up refugees through this system, we should also try to get such a composition that we take into account integration in terms of education, that they can read and write. Because it is a prerequisite that the refugees we pick up to Norway, in sum, have good prospects for success in integrating them into Norwegian society. This is quite common in other countries. The Netherlands does it, the United Kingdom does it, Denmark, as I said, the United States and Canada do it -- most Western countries do it. However, in Norway such principles are not applied at all. In the case of family immigration, too, the Progress Party has a radically different policy from that proposed by the Government. Of course, we introduce the 24-year requirement and the requirement for access, which we have seen to have produced very good results in Denmark. Overall, marriage patterns and educational levels of young immigrants from countries such as the United Kingdom have been reversed. Pakistan, Somalia and Lebanon. This has been done by introducing these requirements in relation to family immigration. We also make financial demands and demands for good conduct. In accordance with the Dutch model, we introduce language and knowledge tests for people to come to Norway through family immigration. At the same time, we say that these should be the general provisions for people who come to Norway through family immigration. But we're open to exceptions to the general rule. We do not have integration problems with people from the Western world - we do not have integration problems with people from the United States, Canada, Japan or, of course, the European Union. That is why we allow exceptions to the general rule of law, so that we do not make it unnecessarily difficult for people who, on a completely free and fair basis, want to establish a family across borders. I can say a lot more about our foreign law. I'm going to do that too -- later in the debate. What I note is that where the Government does not take the consequences of ten years of experience in immigration to Norway, the Progress Party is the only party that does.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower.ana.ud1006e244	The President has reason to believe that the representative should make proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower.ana.ud1006e247	Yes, of course. I am promoting the alternative proposal for a new foreign law by the Progress Party and also proposal No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower.ana.ud1006e252	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower.ana.ud1006e258	The President's point is that there'll also be a line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower.ana.ud1006e261	It might not have been so strange that the representative Amundsen thought it was just as good to avoid this line change. Because I am asking questions as to whether the Political Spokesman of the Progressive Party has such far-reaching political positions in this area that he may represent a sentence for the government dream on the right. It is rare that I am surprised and shocked by the Progress Party on immigration policy issues, but yesterday I was really shocked when Amundsen and the Advance Party will sort and make it a battle cause in the forthcoming election campaign to reject illiterates and resource-intensive groups. At the same time, I register that Right Bent Höie makes himself a guarantor that this will not happen in a government. That one will fight for in the campaign, one will probably also fight for in government. Will the Progress Party accept to be overrun by the Right in this so-highly profiled question?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower.ana.ud1006e268	I have to thank you for the question. It was actually good that the representative asked that question, because it is partly a misstatement of our policy. It's not right, as some people have tried to make it, that we don't want to accept real refugees like that. is disabled. It's never been our policy, and it's never going to be. What we have said, and what is important overall, is that when we bring refugees to Norway, we must seek to have such a composition of people that the prerequisite for being well integrated in Norwegian society is as good as possible. First of all, it's about picking people up from certain countries, where we know from experience that we're getting a good integration. We also need to shift to level of education, to literacy, etc. But it's not just about picking up these types of immigrants. We have to see this in context and make a total assessment. It is nothing special that the Progress Party proposes this. This is something that the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Denmark and a number of other countries do.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower.ana.ud1006e275	The Progress Party is concerned about the extensive immigration into Norway. A look-up in the VG yesterday shows that the largest groups of first-time immigrants in Norway are Swedes, Danes and Poles - i.e. Western. What is more interesting is that the largest group of non-Western people in Norway is Iraqi. The Iraqis come from a country of which the Progress Party supported the invasion of the United States. The war situation and, as a result, the refugee situation in Iraq are among other things. a result of party-supported policy. There are 17 000 Iraqis in Norway today. What kind of thoughts does the Progress Party make around these conditions? Does the Progress Party take the consequences of its own policy? Do these people not need protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower.ana.ud1006e282	The Progress Party has never claimed that the challenges of immigration policy or integration policy are about Western immigrants. It's never been a problem. We see that there are people coming from far-reaching cultural strata who have been the main challenge of Norwegian integration policy. It's an indisputable fact that you can't stick under your chair. Secondly, any refugee, regardless of the country from which he is from, who is seeking asylum in Norway, must have his application assessed on his basis. If this person is a real refugee and is entitled to protection under the Refugee Convention, as we see it, then we shall not have any special treatment for this person because he comes from Iraq or any other country. What we're saying, on the other hand, is that when we pick up refugees from refugee camps, we can show a slightly greater degree of integrational considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower.ana.ud1006e289	Norway has committed itself, including: through the Refugee Convention, to provide protection to those people who come from a war or conflict and are at risk of being persecuted, tortured or killed if they are not allowed to live in another country. The representative Amundsen says on the one hand that we should give protection or a haven for those who really need it. At the same time, he says that we should have a differentiated immigration policy based on the country of origin and the possibility of integrating these people. Can't the representative Amundsen see that this is incompatible? Does he not see the need for protection to be assessed when to say yes or no to stay - we are obliged to do so - not where these people come from, or which ethnic group they belong to?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower.ana.ud1006e297	I think the representative is trying to cover this up by mixing two very different things. First of all, it is people who come to Norway to seek asylum, who knock on the door of Norway. Of course, they should be dealt with on their basis, and if they need to stay, a port of refuge, in Norway, they should, of course, also receive it. But then it's the differentiated policy that we want to introduce, just like what Denmark is actually doing. It is about people who come as quota refugees, for example. through the UN system. There we will take greater integration policy into account, so that we can try to get people who are easily integrated into Norwegian society, which is a prerequisite for success in integration policy in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower.ana.ud1006e306	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower.ana.ud1006e309	It's a big and important thing Odelstinget has to deal with today, because it touches very many areas that there's a great commitment to and a big discussion about. It does not least affect Norway’s position in the world, and it affects the tradition, the line, which Norway is going to take on in essential issues. First, there's reason to say that there's a very broad political consensus about what we can call the main issues related to the Foreign Affairs Act. There is a broad consensus that Norway should be a haven for those people who need our protection and who come to Norway either as refugees who need asylum under the Refugee Convention or as people who come here and need protection under other international conventions and human rights. Not least, one shall also have a safety valve by which people who do not necessarily need protection under these Conventions, but for other strong human reasons, should remain in the country, for example. depending on how long they have been here, their health situation and other conditions. This is part of Norway's position in the world, part of taking our responsibility for the existence of an international law and an international law for individuals, and not least Norwegian citizens depend on when they move around the world. And it has to do with what position Norway is going to have internationally in these kinds of questions. If we are to raise the index finger to countries that violate human rights, we are to have a human rights dialogue with other countries, we must also have order in our own house. So this is about the international solidarity that is most evident in our share of quota refugees, which we take from the UN refugee camps - that we there have a composition of the quota refugees that we accept that are both people who need to come to Norway to live their lives, regardless of which country they are from, and not least that Norway is taking its share of those who are most in need of our help, namely orphans, disabled people and others, those who have the most difficulty in these camps. As there is a broad consensus, there are also issues related to family reunification and family establishment. As the case-rapporteur was about, the world is more and more marked by people travelling, working, staying, vacationing all over the world, and the world is more and more marked by shorter distances. This means that family issues related to immigration are becoming more and more central. I am glad that someone in the setting is very clear now distinguishing between family reunification and family start-up. One is aware that in the case of family start-ups, one who lives here has a responsibility to provide entertainment for himself, to be ready to accept those with whom you want to establish a family. There is a distinction between this and that one when one has come to Norway, for example. as a refugee, stay and, of course, then have the right to reunite with a family that is already established. The last question concerns labour immigration, which is not so much affected by the law, but which is not least important in the design of the regulations in the future. One must be clear that labour immigration is based on Norway’s needs, based on the fact that the law can be changed, flexible, shifted, taking into account the situation in Norway – with the exception of those who are workers from the EEA territory. In all these key areas, I see that there is quite a political consensus. The right has a number of proposals, both alone and with others, which are different from the Government's proposals. The first is about the so-called extended concept of refugee. There, the Government has chosen to make a recommendation through the EU Status Directive, where one brings together the different groups covered by different international conventions, under the same protection groups as those covered by the Refugee Convention. The right considers that it may be right once in the future, but we believe it is wrong to do so now, at such an early stage and before very many other EU countries have done so. We believe that NOAS is right in saying that the extended concept of refugee to which the government refers will lead to an increase in the influx of persons to Norway seeking protection and an increase in the number that will be allowed to stay. Then we come up with what is perhaps one of the biggest dilemmas of the foreign law issue. In the media, Norwegian foreign policy can almost appear to be a caricature, where one -- if one doesn't get very close to this -- gets the impression that those who get to be are like mulla Creaks, who really want to send out, and those who are sent out are well-integrated people who speak Norwegian and work in their communities. Of course, it's not a picture of the situation, because these are the extreme exceptions. But what this is about is the big question of trying to make sure that the people in the world who spend the long trip to Norway are the people who actually need protection and who will be allowed to stay. We must avoid making a policy in Norway and avoid sending political signals that create the impression that if only one comes to Norway first, and one lasts, all possible ways to get the proceedings trained, falsifies documents, withholds documents, one will eventually be allowed to stay. A policy that builds up under this is a policy that is not least harmful to the people who spend the long journey. We know that 80-90 pst. of those who come to Norway and apply for a stay, come here as a result of having paid the last time they have and more than that, to international criminal organisations involved in trafficking in human beings. If we pursue a policy that allows more people to do so, we also pursue a policy that will destroy the best years of their lives in Norwegian asylum recipients, with false hopes that they will be. That's what makes it so awfully difficult, because that means that we're going to be consistent in this policy, we actually have to say no to staying to people who most of us, in meeting with the individual people, would think it would have been perfectly OK to stay in Norway. But that's the consequences for all those who want to go on the long trip, which makes us have to have a different policy. The right is also in favour of a stricter demand for entertainment, which I believe is more realistic than what the Government has put on. I think it is positive that the government parties have come to the right in relation to that model, that system, but we believe that the amount should have been more realistic. We also believe that there should have been an exception rule that in some cases made it possible to take account of the income potential of the person who comes to the country, not just of the person who is here. We also want to set up a so-called "love selection" that, in matters relating to UNE, can decide matters more quickly and can make a decision when new information is available, so that we avoid cases being dealt with again and again. Not least, we have a number of proposals together with the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, which we have ample opportunity to come back to. These are about getting a faster and better treatment for those under the specialist quota. We also have proposals for simplified and improved visa rules. In fact, we believe that Norwegian visa policy today is both discriminatory and anti-integrative for people living in Norway who want to visit their families and friends. With this I take up the Right proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower.ana.ud1006e345	The representative Bent Höie has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower.ana.ud1006e350	First, I would like to say that I noticed that the representative Amundsen did not answer the question from the representative Hagebakken, but I expect to come back to it later in the debate. I also record that yesterday's right-hand side had a clear need to distance itself from the policy of the Advance Party after the play in the VG. I also record that the Right is on its policy and respects international asylum and refugee agreements that Norway has signed and remains within human rights. It is now a long year for the big election campaign to set in too fully. With a civil majority, if any, after the elections - would it be inconceivable for the Right to enter into political cooperation with the Progress Party, if the Progress Party is on its external immigration policy, strengthened by the play-out in the newspaper yesterday?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower.ana.ud1006e359	As I have said several times, the Right is very concerned about continuing the good and liberal tradition that Norway has in these questions. For us, it is irrelevant to be involved in a policy that requires that an international convention be cancelled or that undermines the international law and law applicable between countries, not least Norway, which is dependent on a small country. But there is also reason to note that the foreign law presented today has itself been designated by the Council of State as a foreign law which essentially continues the policy of the previous government, that is, the government of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. At that time, the Foreign Affairs Act was largely agreed between the Government Parties, the Workers' Party and the Advance Party - while the Centre Party and SV constituted the opposition to the Foreign Affairs Act at that time. They are now in government and administer the same law.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower.ana.ud1006e366	I'll go a little further on the previous question. The right has a more liberal approach to refugee and asylum policy than the Progress Party. We think there's an excuse between these parties on these issues. It's SV and I'm glad. But what concerns us is that these two parties represent the closest we have a government alternative to the sitting government. At the same time, when we know that the Progress Party wants to close the borders of illiteracy and reduce the number of asylum seekers, my question becomes quite specific: How far can the Right go to put a government alternative on its legs? And not least, which parts of this foreign law we are now going to adopt, and which is currently supported by the Right, can it be most topical to negotiate away in a bourgeois government with the Advance Party, where the Advance Party will be the largest party?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower.ana.ud1006e373	I can just refer to my previous answer, which is also the answer to this question. I note that with regard to the issue of silage of quota refugees, there has been a significant moderation in the position of the Progress Party, from the VG yesterday to the debate today. If it goes so fast with the moderation in the Progress Party, I don't think this is going to be a big problem. I really think the best comparison with these two questions, and in particular the question of considering cancelling international conventions, is the SVs and the Central Party's positions with the EU, the EEA and NATO before entering into government cooperation with the Workers' Party. This is a special position which parties may have in opposition, but which relate to areas where there is broad political consensus in Norway and which are concerned with Norway’s position in the world. It is not possible to change whether you are in the opposition or in the position.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower.ana.ud1006e380	As the representative Höie says, there is a broad political consensus in Norway on the main guidelines of Norwegian foreign policy. There is a broad political consensus in Norway also on pensions, broad political consensus on climate, there is a broad political consensus on aid policy, and on oil policy is the broad political consensus. But it's one difference, and it goes between the Right and the Other - and the Advance Party. The representative, Höie, said a little lightly that SV also had a special position. But there's a distinction between the Right Party and the Advance Party, and when you look at all the big, broad similarities that have been made in the Stortinge during this period, and the main lines of Norwegian policy, the Right Party and the Advance Party divide away. Government cooperation is based on political realities. What is left of the Progress Party's profile in cooperation with the Right, if the Right can guarantee that all of these great, broad similarities are implemented with the Right in Government? Is it at all credible that the Right Party and the Advance Party will be able to carry out government cooperation when the division is so large?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower.ana.ud1006e387	This was a repetition of the previous question, but it is important to stress that the issues that have been raised in the media in this area in the last few days are the extremes of the Progress Party's position in this matter. Then there is reason to say that the Right Party and the Advance Party agree that there is a need to pursue a strict but fair refugee and asylum policy in Norway. This means, for example: that we agree that it is an experiment to expand the concept of refugee now, without having seen how this works elsewhere in Europe. This could lead to more spending on the long journey, as I mentioned in my post, and no one will be served with either the traveler or Norway. We agree that the demand for entertainment proposed by the Government is too low. It should be that you can get married to whoever you want, but when you marry someone, you should not be able to send the bill to the government. There is a need to set clear boundaries and clean them up, including in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower.ana.ud1006e396	The cord shift is over. The regulatory time for tomorrow's meeting is immediately over, and the President will propose that the Odelstinget now take a break, and that a new meeting be revisited at 0 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox - That's to look at as a confirmation.
