ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-06.ana.ud256e26	The representative Henning Skumsvoll, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The representative, Kenneth Svendsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-06.ana.ud256e34	On behalf of Robert Eriksson, Kari Kjöna's Kjos, Per-Willy Amundsen and myself, I would like to make a proposal to ask the Government to appoint a new, independent and wide-ranging board to manage the Romani people's fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-06.ana.ud256e39	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-06.ana.ud256e55	In Sandnesposten on February 14th this year, Minister of Knowledge Bård Vegar Solhjell says: ‘Scholeturs may continue.’ That is a good starting point for this debate. At the same time, it is important to take this debate, because the free principle of primary and secondary education has created uncertainty about the issue of school trips, and we have received many enquiries about school trips that are cancelled. Excursions, theater visits, camp schools and other school trips are a valuable part of the training. In this debate, I would like to address the practice of the free principle both in primary and secondary schools. I, and many with me, are concerned that we should have free training, but we must have a free principle that does not stifle school trips, kill good initiatives or create unwanted organizations of school activities. An overall increase has determined that public education in primary and secondary schools should be free of charge. First to primary school: The population in 2002 clarified that primary school camp schools and all educational materials should be free of charge. It is I, and the Christian People's Party, fully agree, but it is important to understand this as if no compulsory training activities can cost money. It is equally important to stress that the Training Act § 2-15 does not regulate activities which are not part of compulsory primary education. The free principle deals with everything the school should do, but the principle should not be enforced so harshly and squarely that it strangles any voluntary activity that the school can do. As long as no one is charged and no one is excluded, the free principle must be well respected. When school and parents in cooperation arrange something positive that the school is not required to do, this is positive and enriching as long as no one is excluded. I will give a concrete example of such a project: in the municipality of Sandnes, three secondary schools have had a year-long student exchange with each of their secondary schools in Tiverton in England, the Winnenden in Germany and Albertville in France, respectively. Since 1973, Eyegard College has had a student exchange with Tiverton High School in Devon. A dozen students of a year's coal of about 20 years. 120 travels to England, lives in a family and goes to Tiverton High School for a few weeks. Then a similar group comes back to Norway. The schools arrange and manage the exchange. The students live at home with each other, the teachers live with each other - the Norwegians with the English and vice versa. The exchange is arranged to the point of self-sufficiency, and the students who leave pay only a proportion corresponding to the direct costs. There's only a small minority of the year coal traveling, and if there's a lot of people reporting their interest, the lot is drawn about who gets to travel. The student exchange is of great value to the whole school, also to those students who do not travel themselves. English students go to school for several weeks in Sandnes, and there are many tours and leisure activities that provide a large linguistic and cultural benefit to all students at school. The exchange is a cooperation between school and parents. There is no school required to do. Parents are primarily responsible for organising leisure activities and trips for Norwegian and English students. In addition to the hard work done by schools, students and parents, an excess is paid for travel expenses, etc. But no one is required to travel, and there is only a small minority of students traveling. There will never be capacity for anything else. And everyone has the opportunity to attend the visit when the English students come. Questions have been asked about the legality of the student exchange because of the self-payment to those travelling. It is my clear opinion that this and the corresponding student exchanges must not end. It'll be a big loss for the school. Almost school in Stavanger has not arranged the annual ski tour in the last two years because, according to the principal at the school, it seems to be too complicated and expensive in relation to the free principle. It's thoughtful that just those students who come from a weak economy may lose the only opportunity they have this year for a ski day. So for graduation tours in the 10th grade. Many secondary schools throughout the country have the tradition of organising a 10th-class graduation tour. The principle of free has led to the development of various creative solutions to circumvent the free rule. This has led to desperate parents trying to find creative solutions to get their kids out of town. The parents at Ottestad secondary school in the municipality of Stange arrange the trip for their children during the autumn holidays with White buses outside the school. The parents then rented on the trip two of the teachers at the school and paid them out of their own pocket for them to join. Teachers have agreed with the school that they can take vacations when they come home. This is going to be almost a school trip, but not in school. This was not deleted the purpose of the free principle. Schools must not search for opportunities to circumvent the law. It is important that school trips are not privatized. By this I believe that voluntary school trips arranged as a cooperation between school and parents must continue. These trips should be in the direction of the school, giving a sense of security in relation to the responsibility of the school owner for the contents of the trips and for no one to be excluded. When parents are responsible for the trip, there is no guarantee that all students will be included. It is also demanding to provide solutions where either one asks the students for exemption from education to travel with their parents, or one pays the teachers to be on a trip that is in the hands of their parents. The Council of State says in the reading in Sandnesposten that there is still the law of voluntary payment and hard work to arrange school trips. And that's good. The problem is that all parental payments should be anonymous and go to a classroom. Now we don't have so many classes in school anymore, so class in itself is a problem. I expect the Council of State to have confidence that the schools can find good solutions for voluntary parental pay for any termination trips. As long as the school ensures 1) that everyone gets involved, and 2) that no one is charged, that should be okay. So, for high school. In November 2007, the Directorate-General for Education sent a letter to all higher education schools clarifying that secondary education is free of charge. This also applies to school trips and excursions linked to the training. Thus, the school’s economy is crucial for students to have trips and excursions. The letter from the Education Directorate to the country’s secondary schools has created reactions and confusion. Are high school students allowed to pay for school trips of their own wallet? The Minister of Knowledge has said that it is possible and not prohibited to receive gifts from parents or others. But in high school, it's not good enough to cooperate with parents in the same way as in primary school. It's also hard to imagine or bet on business giving gifts to or sponsoring the school. It should not be the case that schools need to spend a lot of energy and attention on finding funding for school activities. The principle of freedom clearly limits what schools can do about activities outside school. Students in the field of sport, for example: go on a week's training trip in the mountains. Until now, schools have been able to take a share, for example: to cover the cost of food. Students who have German or English depression are welcome to have a week’s stay in Germany or England. These are measures that should be able to continue in such a way that everyone gets involved and no one is excluded because of the economy. Most schools today are unable to carry out these trips without self-proportion. We have to take this seriously. For it will be mere wishful thinking to believe that today's level of trips and excursions can continue with a full school funding. Several schools have had schemes for students who could not afford part of them. They could apply to the school to cover the expenses. With the new rules, we can risk getting a poorer school. In the case of high school, it must be possible, in my opinion, to take a propensity. I would encourage the Council of State to take initiatives on a little bit more nuanced rules. It must be possible to have a scholarship scheme or a separate luggage box at the schools which can finance the proportion where it is needed. We do not disagree with the principle of free movement. But I think we have to assume that the free principle has created uncertainty and caused problems in school and led to fewer excursions and school trips. And then we get school trips that aren't really in school, but that's kind of in school anyway -- it's a little quasi. And that wasn't the point. We're weakening the tours. Not least, the insurance of students is put at risk when it comes to parenting. The intrusions that came for high school have been a source of reaction. Much of it is because schools have developed exciting international programmes and excursions with good professional content that they can no longer carry out. We must avoid that the principle of free works against its purpose. We need a good and exciting public school. We should like to see all of the school's activities, both at primary and secondary level, fully funded, but that is not within the framework we have today. That is why we need a flexible and sensible practice of the free principle. I'm going to insist that no one is to be excluded because of economics, but this can be solved. I hope and believe that the Council of State will find good solutions, so that the free principle becomes what you would have thought -- both a good and a free school.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-06.ana.ud256e112	The public basic and continuing training shall be free of charge for students. It is statutory in training laws § 2-15 and § 3-1. Both aspects have been changed since the Training Act was adopted in 1998. The principle of free movement has been clarified to include primary clay balls and extended to include teaching materials and necessary digital equipment for further training. After the change in the main part of the baseline and for further training, the privileges are the same. If a school is considered to be part of the training, the school may not require that the cost of the trip be covered by the pupils or students. This will apply to all activities and tours that go under the control of the school, for example. trips which are in the school age and have a professional purpose. The purpose of this is to have an inclusive school, where everyone should be able to participate in the same line regardless of the personal economic background. The basic law changes came as a result of a development in which too many trips were higher and higher. There were differences between the students who could be on the tours and those who didn't have the money to do it. For many of the families who saw themselves affording to let their children on the tours, there was also a great financial burden. Therefore, there was a broad consensus in the Stortinget that the students would be free of charge, i.e. that one cannot charge for a professional offer in the school school, and the changes in the law also applied for a stay in the camp. The size was behind the change, and so there's a broad political agreement that the basic training should be free of charge, which we also get confirmed by the interpellant here. Today's regulation of the free principle of continuing training regulates a situation where we face a dilemma. On the one hand, we want to take care of inclusion and community and that everyone should have equal opportunities, regardless of the economy and other resources. On the other hand, we want to take care that it is important for students to be able to travel on school trips for educational purposes, because it may be a very important and positive contribution to the training. In recent times, there have been reports that schools have canceled school trips. Last November, the Education Directorate sent a letter to all county councils stating that the elephants or their residents could not be required to cover the costs of schooling. The background for this was, among other things, a significant public debate in the fall where many examples of parents who could not afford to pay for their children to participate in important school activities that were an important part of the training provision and from which they were thus excluded. Unfortunately, many people perceive what was sent out, so that all forms of student contributions to the schoolrooms were now illegal. In order to avoid unnecessary cancellation of trips, I have therefore underlined to the municipalities and county councils, i.e., to school owners, schools, parents and elephants, that voluntary payment and other contributions to school trips that benefit all students have ours and are legal. There is still full opportunity to collect money through voluntary gifts to the school, through hard work, through cacalottry, through charades, and in many other ways. This is also taking place to a significant extent around the Norwegian school today. I myself know many examples from now on this winter that there are such types of collection to tours that are to be present in ours. I agree with the representative Tørresdal that it is very important and valuable that students get to know different countries and cultures through the school as well. Internationalisation in training is necessary to provide children and young people with the skills they need to be closed down in society today and tomorrow, and to contribute to responsible and solidarity in the world. The aim of building international understanding among children and young people in school and training is also clearly reflected in the Training Act and the general part of the curriculum. In particular, it may be important for children who come from families with poor economies, or who are in a situation where they do not travel at many foreign stays during their childhood, that they may travel on trips under the direction of the school, as the representative Tørersdal also stressed in his post. The municipalities and county councils are responsible for facilitating training so that pupils and apprentices can develop international competences and co-responsibility. I am positive that I should be happy to give parts of the offer through e.g. study trips abroad. For this reason, it is also particularly important that everyone should be able to participate in the same route, regardless of their personal financial background. Then I have also seen in recent times that there are examples of schools that have interpreted the law so that there is no law with different types of student contributions, voluntary contributions, collections, in any way. I also know at least one example that there has been a question mark about whether collection actions are legal for solidarity purposes, in this case in the third world. Then I want to clarify again here: yes, collection actions for e.g. Of course, solidarity objectives can take place in the Norwegian school and are positive, and it is also possible to make voluntary contributions in different ways or for example. arrange trade fairs or have other events, collect money through dolls, crown rolls and other means. What is not allowed under the laws adopted by Stortinget is to charge the students for an actual school trip.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-06.ana.ud256e129	I am pleased that the Minister of Knowledge is so open in his approach that he sees the value of all the tours, international projects and excursions that the school has at both primary and secondary level. We need to focus on what kind of school we want to have, and when we want to have a school that -- both at primary and secondary level -- is enriched by excursions, theater visits, camp schools and international student exchanges, we have to be willing to pay the price. And of course, when we adopt a free principle, we mean it. It's not going to cost anything, either the school supplies or the tours. But then we get into these dilemmas, because we've developed a practice where there have been probabilities. So we have financed a good part of the school's activities with self-payment, and we have to take that seriously. If we are to maintain the level of activity, we either need to have more money in schools, so county councils and municipalities have to give more money to the schools to take the top funding themselves, or someone has to pay it at the top. If the top funding is not paid, that is, the last expenditure to maintain the level we have today, a cut in the offer will have to be paid. I'm glad that the Minister of Knowledge says so clearly that we want tours, we want excursions, we want an active school, we want creative schools that start international solidarity projects. Then we agree on where we want to go. Then we'll discuss how we can achieve that goal. It is my appeal to the Minister of Knowledge that he make the schools safe again. I think this contribution today was a step in the right direction by saying that there is a lot that is allowed. Collection actions are allowed; voluntary payment is allowed. I agree with all of that, but we need to be sure that they can find good solutions. One can get some help, too, through scholarship schemes, travel boxes at the schools, to remedy, so that no one is charged a payment. I think the schools are good at finding solutions. If you can say that you're not allowed to let anyone be excluded because of economics, I have confidence that the schools can solve this. I picked up this interpellation because I feel it's a little bit missing. Let's take as an example a high school that has had a project on South America: if everyone agrees on a voluntary payment, and only a couple of homes have problems paying for a trip to South America -- if it's okay with a self-payment of a couple thousand dollars after hard work and after all sponsoring funds have been used up -- one could find a solution at the school, a suitcase, so they can pay the prop for those students who can't afford it. I encourage you to find solutions -- one doesn't have to find them today, but we have to be open to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-06.ana.ud256e138	Here it sounds like we're some people saying that there must be a goal that the school should participate in society as much as possible, and one way to do it, which is very important, and which many fortunately do, is to go on different types of trips in the country and abroad, visits of different kinds. Many of them are paid by the school, but some of them also require funding at the top of it. This can be done through, for example: gifts, virtues, voluntary collection of money, etc. Then I also understand that we are some about the free principle. When the representative says that we are some about the free principle and that we need to find a good practice, I would point out that if we are to have a free principle, we also need a practice that ensures that the school can be free. Otherwise, we don't have a free principle. That's exactly why I've been so clear, and as I understand we're a few, that it's up to the elephant to pay to be on school trips with a professional content in the direction of the school and in the school days should not be allowed. That has been said by Stortinget. Then we have to follow it. At the same time, my call will be that we have to let there be creative solutions locally that provide the greatest possible activity, the most possible schooling of the good kind, which can be a positive contribution, but within the law for which the Storting has a responsibility and which we practice. Of course, then, we must also ensure that the legislation is in line with it, but that it can be used in the most sensible way possible around the schools in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-06.ana.ud256e145	One might say that this matter is difficult. I think we all have to admit that. Finding the right balance, finding the right solutions, is not easy. I really think we're pretty much in agreement about where we want to go, but finding the right tools is what we're looking for a little bit. I would also like to add in the interpellant's comments that it is often very expensive, that it is a pressure, and that this has been escalating in recent years, which means that one has to get enough good at each school to give priority, so that there is no inflation in expensive activities and school trips. And then it's going to be extra difficult. The discussion about school trips and the free principle is important if we want the school to be an arena that does not reinforce social differences. It's important that we find solutions that don't lead to anyone being excluded from social activities in school because of the family's finances. This does not necessarily mean that all school trips and other activities should be free of charge, but that one finds local solutions such as: collections, sponsorship, hard work, etc., which allow school trips to be funded, so that everyone can participate. We believe that one in today's legislation will find good solutions that will make it possible to get to school trips and so on. for all. In this regard, I can mention an example from the school where my daughter goes. Every 17 May, the parents of the fifth-class students are responsible for school attendance after childhood. The surplus of the arrangement is added to the class box and can be used for e.g. school trips. It's important to see the whole picture. Schools must never become a place where parents’ wallets are crucial for children’s and young people’s participation in social activities. At the same time, good local solutions must be sought to finance such measures. Many people do this with a little extra effort. When we first discuss school trips etc., camp schools are important. Camp school should be priority No. 1, so that everyone is guaranteed a real trip during primary school. We are aware that not all school owners finance camp schools, despite the intention that it was when the previously earmarked grant from the state was included in the framework grant to the municipalities. We hope for a greater will from the school owners who are now giving priority to the camp school for their students. Finally, I again want to clarify the importance of a school where no one is left out. We processed for a while back St.meld. No 16 for 2006-2007, on early intervention, where we were very clear and clarified how important it is that no one is left, and that the school should be an arena for social cohesion. In this way, this debate is also relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-06.ana.ud256e160	I will first be allowed to thank the interpellant for raising an important question. This is something that causes great unrest in a lot of municipalities, because the practice of the free principle is so varied. I think it is important to note what the representative de Ruiter now said in the pulpit, namely that camp school must at least be given priority. It's not all municipalities that have the ability to prioritize camp school. This is because one after tightening up the free principle has had challenges related to self-payment. The reason is that the state does not finance more than half of the actual costs of camp school. If a truly wanted to prioritise camp school for all students, it would be natural for a fully funded cost of it, as proposed by the Progress Party at the latest in its 2008 alternative state budget. And with the strong defense for the camp school representative de Ruiter had here today, I expect the Workers' Party will support the Advance Party next time we promote proposals for a state full funding of the camp school offer, and that will not be long. It's not just tours and travels that are challenging. A school in Westfold had a long tradition of making knives. It is a hundred-year tradition in Norway to make knives, but it is expensive, especially the blade. They therefore collected 50 kroner from the students who chose to make a knife in the loop - it was not required. There was an abrupt stop after the intrusion of the free principle. And it's a very unfortunate practice of a principle that's basically positive. For no one believes that basic training should cost anything, but putting practical brakes on typical Norwegian craftsmanship in the loop poses a challenge. I also hope that the Council of State in its next post will clarify that it is not the kind of thing that you want to prevent by the intrusion that came into the free principle. Another challenge relates to White buses or other tour operators travelling to different concentration camps. In my own country there are many such tours that are now cancelled because the municipalities cannot afford to finance them. They have not found solutions to how they can charge the students. I even know the veteran of war Gunnar Knudsen, who is still on these trips despite his old age. He tells about how the students react when they go into these concentration camps, gets this close to the body and hears his stories. You can't read about that. The Committees at Stortinget travel around the world to learn things you can't read about, while the principle of free is now becoming a barrier so that others can do the same. Without a form of self-financing, these trips will not be carried out. The Council of State said that it should still be possible to make voluntary payments that benefit everyone. Kroneruling, sales of cakes, hard work and donations were some of the examples mentioned by the Council of State, and that's good. I then allow myself to interpret the Council of State, because I record that what comes from the Department, the Council of State, and not least from the Directorate of Education in terms of interpretations of the principle of free of charge, is highly variable. So it's like this, as I can understand, that it's still possible to collect money for camp school, for white buses, etc., but not to claim that those who are going to attend have to pay. But I assume that it is also the opposite, that those who pay are entitled to bring their own children on the trip. The same starting point should be for example for: cutting in the loop, so that a certain amount of self-payment can still be made for some of the equipment used in that type of work. If that is correctly interpreted, I hope that the Council of State will clarify this for the Directorate of Education, so that we can have a consistent management of the free principle, which in some municipalities leads to a reduction in the offer to the students compared to the previous one.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-06.ana.ud256e173	The discussion about the free principle is not of a new date. In the past, it was common for students themselves to pay a significant proportion of trips, excursions and camp schools. This was not a good order. It resulted in some students being unable to participate in what was part of the school's professional and social learning arena because of poor finances at home. Today, municipalities receive their own funds for camp schooling via state transfers, and it is the school owner's duty to ensure that all pupils in the municipality have equal opportunity to participate. There are a lot of students who are happy about it. School is the most important common arena in society. In order to ensure that all students have the same right and opportunity to be equivalent participants in this arena, the principle of free primary and secondary education must be a pillar. The principle is also laid down in the Training Act. Now, however, groups, classes and schools themselves can take the initiative to collect money for activities. Many students do this, for example: through their own student establishments, which is positive. This does not conflict with the free principle as long as all students are included. Because there is an inclusion that is the key. I am very pleased that the Minister of Knowledge, through his statements, has stated that the principle that all students should be included is important. It is unfortunately necessary and absolutely right of him to remind us of this. Because we live in a time when most of us are getting more and more money. Most of us have good money to pay for our children to have good experiences. Good experiences all parents want to give their children. But the gap between those who have and those who strive to make the ends meet gets bigger. We know that in what is defined as poor families, children are of school age. It's this group that falls off when it comes to propensity. They take little part in cultural schools, corps, football training and other activities that cost money. It is a reality. It is these children who will remain on the platform when the rest of the class goes on ‘exciting and educational activities beyond the school’, to use the words of the interpellant. They'll little say the truth about why they don't participate: that their parents can't afford it. They're very good at hiding that. They've done that for a long time. Because, as a student said to me, it's embarrassing to admit that you're poor. The free principle is the social security network of these children in school, and we must not forget that. Learning takes place in many arenas, and it's the school owner's responsibility to ensure that excursions, tours, skigoes and other activities similar to textbooks get a budget that allows the schools to contribute here. Many municipalities, I would say most, have understood this today and spend this money through the appropriations for the individual school. The principle that everyone should be involved, different people, but equal opportunities, both professional and not least social, must be a matter of course. If you don't have this, you're undermining the school as the common arena, and it must be our duty to make sure that the school is an arena where everyone has equal opportunity to participate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-06.ana.ud256e184	I've recently received a lot of messages from both desperate students, parents, teachers and principals who wonder if they're actually allowed to arrange school trips. I hope the confusion will ease somewhat after this debate, because the confusion has been great, and the Council of State's attempt to clarify the situation has not always been entirely successful. A school in Eastfold interprets this as being now possible, and a neighboring school interprets it as not being possible to carry out school trips. So we need to get a clarification that makes us get good and clear guidelines on how to do this. It is true that when school trips are cancelled, there are also the most vulnerable children, who may lose the only trip they could experience, who remain on the platform with the whole class. The principle of free is important. It has interpellantly fixed on behalf of the Christian People's Party. We're on the point that the school should be free, it should be inclusive, and everyone should have opportunities. At the same time, we see that many schools around the country have good traditions of being able to arrange school trips for the students. This is usually done in collaboration with White buses or others. The purpose of the tours is to learn. But not least, I think that the valuable social aspect by experiencing things together, by participating in rich experiences, rather than just hearing about the tours the others in the class have had, is important. The principle of free time in Norwegian school is to be observed. It's going to ensure that everyone gets the same education no matter what kind of economy their parents might have. It's hard to find a solution that combines these two elements. That is why I have a good advice: listen to those who have done so. Both teachers, principals and school owners around the country have experience in how to do this. In many cases, schools themselves are able to combine both the free principle and school trips, so that everyone can participate. In Kristiansand municipality, we have a good example. There, politicians have put a small pot on the school budget that you can take money from to fill up where the voluntary payment for school trips -- the hard work, the crowning, the waffle sale -- is not enough to buy skis, rent skis, buy lift tickets, all the small things that get a lot for those who have a bad economy. My point is that schools and municipalities have experience based on their local circumstances in how this can be solved in a wise and good way. It is unnecessary for us to create confusion about how this should be. I trust that the schools themselves can manage the free principle that the Stortinget has said should apply to school trips, in a way that allows everyone to participate. The councils should also show confidence and give clear information that school trips are allowed, and I think the answer we received from the council today was clearer in this way. Then I get a little more insecure when I hear part of the other representatives from the government parties. But my clear advice to the government council is: Listen and look at the good examples. Local teachers know the students, they know who needs to get some support for the lift, and other things. This is an important debate. It's important that we get good clarifications, but it's incredibly important that we don't stop school trips through this. Some of us got this way out of social commitment and knew an inclusion in school that one didn't always experience in the classroom.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-06.ana.ud256e201	Bjørg Tørresdal brings up a debate that has swept across the country in winds. It was a letter from the Education Directorate in November that triggered much of the debate - at least on my homelands. I'll get back to that a little bit. Alf Prøysen is a well-known and dear author. In one of his songs, "Rome Christmas Dream," he writes: "and ugly bikes should be inside and ugly cars should carry a stand". He calls it a space Christmas dream, we might call it a wish dream -- and it can be transferred to many situations. It's going to be a good idea to think the same thing about school. All activities were to be free, from tours with White buses to walking on the Snow Hedge. This can be drawn incredibly far. And it does. The principle of free movement has been introduced. But as everyone knows, there are limits to everything. The interpellant actually draws this in the opposite direction and believes that it should be allowed to pay. In the text, she says, ‘When it is forbidden to take part’, etc. But this has now been clarified, fortunately, in the course of the debate. I and many with me are very pleased that the Council of State Solhjell both today and in various media around the country have stressed that voluntary self-interests are permitted. That's very good. Then, of course, comes the simple counter question: Who will pay when it is voluntary? We've heard that many times. My answer is: Anyone who has the opportunity to pay will do so. We want students, our children, to have an opportunity for school trips and excursions that are linked to school work and develop them to gain understanding in different areas. A day trip to Maihaugen to complete the syllabus should be free. It has to be taken into account by the school owner. Other things are when the school chooses trips that may be relevant to the professional, but that are not necessary. Collections and supplies are good, cf. the contribution to Freddy de Ruiter and what he mentioned in connection with events on 17 May. But by the way, there could be too much of it. A friend of mine who has a daughter who goes in the ninth grade, collects money for a trip with White buses. In this case, money shall not be used in that school. It just has to be done. A family runs out of 900 Bilthema catalogues, which together weigh 400 kg. Don't ask me who wants them. In addition, yellow telephone catalogues of 750 kg per. family. This is not exactly easy to explain in an environmental context. It is not surprising that this family is happy that it has become voluntary. Do not tell me that this hard-working job is easier for lonely carers or for underwear with bad back. The free principle of promissory notes is very good. A couple of important moments: When organised in the direction of the school, it shall have a beneficial effect and shall apply to all. ‘All shall be included’ is a good and correct principle. Here it is the responsibility of the school owners and the schools. There must be money to cover additional costs for disabled people and for students who have difficulties in financing. In order to do this in a gentle way, it is necessary to use common sense and discretion. Everything cannot be written down in the code. This is nothing new. There are also a lot of people in this room who have worked in school for a long time, and who know that every year - to use that expression - it has been such that it has given financial help to those who need it. Finally, internationalisation is important. It is necessary for some of the different lines to have a stay abroad. My impression is probably that some schools add up to trips that are the most expensive. In some contexts, there is a struggle for the same students. Here, it may be necessary for school owners to consider their own practices. ‘Everyone shall bring’ must be in the back of the school owners and must give clear messages to the schools about this in order to assess their economy on the basis of that principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-06.ana.ud256e224	The interpellant's clearly reasonable approach was that we have a free principle, and then we need to practice sound sense and local discretion. That was also the essence of the Council's response. Then I must say I have a wonder. I grew up at a time when Norway was poor. I have children who have grown up in a slightly less poor Norway. Solutions were found, however, without a mark being put in the forehead of those who had not paid. People joined us. Then we come in a time when normally healthy mind and mind are replaced by formal legal rules, and then there are two phenomena in the homeland: some are horrified and withdraw and do nothing, to be sure not to make mistakes, and some become very actively creative, as you normally have been in Norwegian history. Governments, in the light of a Western settlement, are clearly almost the last tradition. He understands how not to be alarmed, and has contributed to it today. I would recommend the Council of State to hold a colloquial group for the government parties, so that everyone lowers their shoulders as much. Because where the anxiety is grown, along with the coercive reading of jus, you don't want to do anything for sure, because you're so afraid to make mistakes. What the Council of State has described here is quite an important step in confirming a classical Norwegian cooperation culture in order to find good solutions. If he wants to go a step further, there is full freedom to discuss both locally, in municipalities and, not least, in how to ensure sensible action. Of course, it's a difference if you're going to a museum nearby, which may be easier in a big city, but where I've heard examples that you don't think you can, because you've interpreted the circular from the Education Directorate like this. But I see the Council's response as an attempt to initiate a social and mental liberation movement to find solutions. And then we've had the situations I've been in: they saved up for school trips. I myself have been the manager of a savings bank, and I'm just sitting and wondering, for community must not become a kind of coercive mani, where you need to have a regulation to interpret the regulation in order to understand what you have the right to and not the right to do. Good law should support and build under a normal social contract for rights and duties and reason. If good jus becomes a substitute for a lack of this, then we are where Professor Alfred Tellhaug had a settlement with the Council of State party in the fall of 2005 - but I do not leave it up to the Council of State today - where he says that when Protestant duty, reading community ethics, in society goes away, what do we do? And then he says, well, then we have to think about something new, and then we have to recapture these rules. At least the size must not contribute to people not using local knowledge and flexibility. I had enjoyed the interpellant clarifying it in an ok way. I also enjoyed the fact that the Council of State realized that he had to make an addition after writing from the Education Directorate. After we got a education director, for whom I've been, we've got one series of wondrous writing after the other. We have things that are not affected here. For example, they at Wang Toppidrett have been told that they can't really take the money they've taken in the last 26 years, because then they break something. Governments have a significant cleanup work ahead of them. I have to trust him that I have considerable experience in dealing with intelligent lawyers. Most often, after a formed everyday conversation, practical solutions can be found. The Government's answer today is an expression of his willingness and ability to try to find it. I think it's important to establish it, because it's going to be totally wrong when people feel that they can't really buy a ticket or a bus ticket to go to a museum nearby, because they're risking violating the free principle. So what's going on? I believe that the reason why this happens is that one has never had the debates that would give security to the contents of the school, and that are called school policy debates on the content of school, which all parties in this room should inspire their parishes locally and in the county municipalities to return. And then you'll also find the solutions. Then I also understand the extremes that lie in that everyone is going on forced tours far from the farm for a very long time. But that's not the extremes we're talking about right now. We're talking about perfectly reasonable things, like visiting a cultural institution or a museum or taking some trips, as the representative Tørersdal has given examples, and other examples, as the representative Anundsen and others have pointed out. The solutions are found, and the keywords are the local sense and rational flexibility. I think the Council of State has contributed to that. I would encourage him to be a practitioner on this, because my life experience on other aspects of life has taught me that when, for example. Newly educated young socionomists are put in a child protection office with a legal ringperm, and you don't get followed by someone who wants to lead you--then becomes a horror, and the most important thing one does is to do nothing. So in our homeland, with the legal system we have of the whole development of society -- and I'm not attacking that there are rights and obligations -- there's also a cultural liberation movement that makes people start acting so that they use sense and understanding together with the rules. For the rules are designed to be normal, and then they are designed to avoid gliding into important areas. This was an effort to advocate a cultural liberation process - not against the Juice, but to use the Juice with wit and understanding and with local tradition, because that's what we usually have done in Norway. We should also do that in this case. The left considers that both the initiative of the inter-pellant and the response of the Council of State have been good contributions. But I became somewhat disturbed after hearing some of the government party representatives' a little anxious posts. Let fear soften and find joy and creativity instead!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-06.ana.ud256e251	I often meet foreign delegations coming to Norway to look at the Nordic welfare model. The Nordic welfare model is an important model, which has contributed to the development of Norway and has helped everyone to have equal opportunities and rights. Once the Storting has adopted the free principle in primary school and now has also adopted the free principle in secondary school, this is part of the further development of the welfare model that we have, and this is important. The camp schools have been mentioned in several of the posts here today. I want to take a little look back at the camp schools, see a few years back. In the past, the state was not involved in financing anything in terms of camp schools. Then, apparently, there were no major problems in implementing camp school arrangements. Some years ago, an earmarked grant was introduced from the state to the camp schools, because it seemed important that the state was involved in building up under this important offer. Since the introduction of the free principle, we have received feedback that it has become problematic in some schools and in some municipalities to implement camp school arrangements. You have had to cut down on the number of days and on going to camp schools. This is a paradox for me. I think it's important that the students go to camp school. I also think it is important that all the municipalities take up this debate and look at how they can solve this. The law of the free principle in high school has been and is a milestone, I believe. This gives everyone a real right and opportunity to go to high school. I believe that with this principle that has been introduced, the possibility and the right to take secondary education have now finally been legalised. It is important that school trips, as part of the training, are free of charge since school trips are added to school time. Going on school trips is important, both for theater visits, cinema visits and other tours, because you get a lot of knowledge that you can't read to -- knowledge that you need for the rest of your life. It's important that we have a high-quality and exciting school. Many schools have exciting and important development programmes, but schools cannot require thousands of dollars from a student in order to be able to participate in these schemes. It is the SV's clear opinion that everyone who goes to primary and secondary school should have free training. This is very important to us. I do not want to take the perspective that the representative Tørresdal took in his introduction, that there are many municipalities and county councils working to see how to try to circumvent the law. I want to encourage and challenge schools, municipalities and county councils to have a conscious policy on this, and deliberately go in and see how you can support and get an exciting training, which includes both school trips, excursions, etc., without being able to demand a student's payment. That's how you can do it in many other ways, but you can't charge the individual student. It is not the free price tip we are going to attack when we see that municipalities and county councils cancel cinema visits, theater visits, etc. We need to have a debate at both local, regional and national level on how best to develop the school, and on how to spend money in the best possible way to get a good school. In this context, attacking the free principle is completely wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-06.ana.ud256e270	I would like to thank you for many sensible contributions to a very important debate. To take the last one first, to the representative Lena Jensen: I don't want it to be necessary for municipalities and schools to look for solutions where they bypass the law. I also do not want to attack the principle of free movement, but I want to establish it. I am very pleased that many of the posts were marked by the fact that we want a free principle that can be implemented. To the Council of State, I would like to reiterate the advice given by the representative Dagrun Eriksen: listen to the common sense and good solutions of experienced schoolchildren. I noticed in particular what the representative Inger S. Enger said, summed up as follows: We need to get a free principle with possibilities for voluntary self-payment, and find solutions within it. She said in addition: There must be money to cover the rest when the work does not extend. If we can manage to find security in practice in such a way, I believe that this debate has led us a step closer calm and a step away from cancelling and cutting off good measures. Point 1: The free principle must not be a coercion. This debate has shown that. If common sense can be used, and you have confidence in it, we've won a lot. So I would encourage the Council of States to do even more to make peace. He had a good answer today. There have been some rounds where he said that we need to find good solutions. I'm glad of that, it's the right way to go-- and I'll encourage the councillor to hold on to that line and in this work listen to what they say, the ones who have the shoe on. Finally, in my article I touched on this with the fact that I want someone to keep school trips under the direction of the school. I see a danger in this being privatized. I'd like the Council to comment on it, that it's in the hands of the parents. The students will no longer be covered by the insurance policies of the school or municipality. One is not guaranteed that everyone gets involved, and the teachers get a huge problem when they're going to be involved with this with the "money directly in their pocket" from a parent box because they're actually maybe at work. This becomes legally demanding, and I would like the Council of State to comment on this matter. What we want is a free principle, voluntary self-esteem, everyone's going to get involved, no one's going to be excluded. There must be some arrangements that are allowed, there must be some money that makes it possible to pay where a few kroner are missing in order to have a fully funded trip. No one shall be required to pay the money, and the trips should be in the direction of the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-06.ana.ud256e289	First, I would like to thank you for what I think has been a good debate and a good discussion with the interpellant and the rest of the Stortinget. The debate has shown two things, in my view: firstly, that we are faced with two important concerns in which we are all a few, and in which we must try to unite in a good way. One example of this is the representative Anundsen, who mentions tours with the white buses or others to concentration camps, and because I myself have visited both Auschwitz and Birkenau in the current Poland and Sachsenhausen in Germany, I know what a huge impression it can make when one is young, and therefore how hugely important it can be, what a hold it can create, and what a lasting track it can set. This is precisely why it is so important that if a school decides to arrange such a trip, there should be an offer for everyone. There should not be a class distinction between those who can afford it and those who can't afford it. It should be an offer to everyone, that is what the free principle is all about. During the intervention of the representative Dørum about anxiety, I tried to look around the hall and use the senses well, but I have to admit that I did not know the anxiety under the posts of the representatives of the government party. What do I know -- maybe I'm more liberal by nature, so I can tolerate more before I interpret it as anxious. On the contrary, I heard four good contributions from the representatives of the government parties, but also good contributions from the representatives of the opposition, which I thought led to a good debate, and which shows that there is a broad consensus about the promise we have today, which is also behind all the parties in the Stortinget. There is also broad agreement on the practice of the law we have today. I don't think any colloquial groups are necessary. But I thought the representative Eriksen made something important that I want to end with: we all have, and especially I, a task of drawing out the good local copies from where one actually practices this in a fully legal way, and where it works. It's simply municipalities that have the kind of pots that are also scouring, and that in this way help to ensure that many schools work well. One spends money from the municipality and school, one has collections, supplies and other, and then one solves it on top with that kind of pots. It's happening all around. There are also many other good local examples. I conclude by thanking you again for the debate - with the hope that we can all contribute to finding healthy, sensible solutions around within the law and in line with the free principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-06.ana.ud256e300	Case No. 1 has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-06.ana.ud256e312	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
