ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e22	The representatives of Morten Höglund, Olav Gunnar Ballo and Sigvald Uppøen Hansen, who have been licensed, have again taken up the seat. From the meeting of the alternate of the State of Finnmark, Ann-Kristin Engstad, there is an application for exemption for disease, from 12 March and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. Other alternates of the Finnmark County, Geir Knutsen, are invited to meet during the leave period. Geir Knutsen is elected to the Lamentations for the time he meets the representative Eva M. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e58	Geir Knutsen is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e64	The President will propose the election of three presidents for the Stortinges meetings today and for the rest of the current week - and consider it adopted. The President will propose Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, Kenneth Svendsen and Solvency Horne. "Other proposals are not available, and Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, Kenneth Svendsen and Solvency Horne are unanimously elected presidents of Stortingets meeting this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e74	The representative, Mr Gjermund Hagesetter, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e77	On behalf of the representatives of Per Sandberg, Øyvind Korsberg, Ulf Leirstein and myself, I am delighted to propose a reduction in fuel taxes for the 2008 budget year.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e82	The representative, Mr Sortevik, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e86	I have the pleasure of presenting two representatives on behalf of the representatives Mr. Bård Hoksrud, Mr. Per Sandberg and myself. One concerns the reorganization of the Coastal Plant to state companies, and the other concerns the modernisation of Norwegian transport policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e91	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e116	On Monday the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Foreign Minister Jonas Gahr Støre and the Councils of State Tora Aasland and Dag Terje Andersen will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. AscendingSort order for mail groups We then start with the first main question, from the representative Morten Højlund.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e125	I will be asked a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. After last week's opposition to the Storing criticized the Government for its resistance to the missile shield plans in NATO, the Foreign Minister of TV 2 said that there is a petty debate conducted in parts of the Norwegian political environment when it is said that Norway does not have a view shared by all, damage NATO. If there is something that is petty in this context, it must be the Norwegian sole course in NATO in the rocket shield case, a one-off event that seems completely meaningless for the time being, and especially when you see how the case has evolved since the Soria Moria statement was written. Former NUPI Chief, Sverre Lodgaard, said to the Newspaper on March 6: ‘It is illusory to believe that Norway can stop the American rocket shield. Nor can the government prevent NATO’s own missile defense from connecting to the US missile system.’;» Nevertheless, it seems that the Minister of Foreign Affairs believes that Norway's position in NATO is equally well taken care of by the type he and the Minister of Defence have exhibited in recent weeks. When questions are asked about how well Norway’s interests are being cared for, the Minister of Foreign Affairs stamps as petty. If the Minister of Foreign Affairs really believes that the negative attitude of Norway towards the rocket shield contributes to the proper care of Norwegian interests, for example: in the northern regions?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e139	If Höglund had heard the whole entry, I used the word ‘meek’ when the journalists pointed out that this was a position Norway had taken because of the government party SV. I thought that was a petty defocus of what was the main question. The fact that Norway has views on important foreign and security policy issues that not everyone in NATO agrees with, which even a majority may not agree, does not mean that Norway is going down and saying that when that is the case, we do not promote our views. The question of a missile defence raises many important questions, and it is my view that it is Norway's responsibility as NATO ally, in an alliance to make its decisions by consensus, that we are promoting these points of view, that we are arguing for them, and that we are going to debate both in open meetings and in the bilateral contacts we have, to argue for that view. That is not the point of view of Norway alone. When we promote it in this way, many share this and have questions, from different angles: technological, economic, security and threat assessment. And since this government took responsibility, we have contributed to that debate in NATO. I remember that it's no longer about building a NATO rocket shield; the Americans have now decided to build an American rocket shield in cooperation with Poland and the Czech Republic. We're still waiting to see the formalization of it. Norway has a tradition of contributing to consensus solutions in NATO. That is also our line on this occasion, and we are actively participating in that debate. Is it in the interests of Norway that we promote the views of the forums where we are, with respect for the views of others, with respect for the indivisible security of the alliance at the bottom of NATO membership? I don't think it hurts Norway's interests. I think it would have weakened Norway's interests, including the legitimacy of the Norwegian people, who have clear vision, if there were no government representatives who were able to stand up to those views in a neat and honest way in the democratic forums of which we are part.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e148	It was at least a frustration with the Minister for Foreign Affairs over parts of the criticism that came from the opposition. We do not meet the same frustration from the Minister of Foreign Affairs and from central members of the Government over the obvious opposition that exists in the Government against the rocket shield, and in fact we strongly argue that Norway should veto it. That's not what the Foreign Minister is saying now. He argues that we're going to discuss this, and then we're going to go beyond what is decided. But isn't there a need here to put parts of this opposition in place, including the government's own finance minister, including the SV counties and the Workers' Party, including local teams, and to contribute to adult training, so that we avoid an uncertainty about what becomes Norway's final line when the conclusions are to be drawn in this matter in NATO?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e155	The representative now mixes the concept of ‘opposition’. There is never any doubt as to what the Government believes in key foreign and security policy issues. Once a decision has been taken, there is never any doubt about it. But this is therefore a government in a democracy in which there is debate. The government does not have a decision to veto Norway. We have a decision anchored in the Soria Moria Declaration, and a strategy we follow to influence as far as we can. The representative, Höglund, draws an image that I believe again raises questions about whether it is legitimate to have a foreign and security policy debate on very important issues today. I mean, we can take it. We can live with it. That's not too much of it, it's rather the opposite, namely, too little. So it is not that I perceive that there is a resistance to the Government's view of rocket defence in Stortinget. I know there's a clear view of the question of veto. It's a question that I have my opinions on. But with regard to the substance of this matter, I perceive that there are also parties and tone-setting environments that, far beyond the government parties themselves, share the government's view.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e164	There will be follow-up questions - Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e167	Let me venture it postulately that yes, there is often doubt about what the Government thinks about important foreign policy issues. It has almost become an established working method for this government to emerge with at least two foreign ministers in controversial foreign policy issues. It started with the Israel boycott, it continued with South Afghanistan, and now finally we have the missile defense. It becomes so confusing that the voters have to follow in all the newspapers, all the radio broadcasts, to bring in all the different broadcasts associated with foreign policy that this government has. Then my main question is: does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that Norway's foreign policy interests are served by such confusion, or is it primarily the concern of the SV that makes it possible to have this kind of policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e174	I cannot take responsibility for Solberg's confusion. She has to figure that out herself. I am not skeptical that the Norwegian people are on radio and on television broadcasts about foreign policy. That's good, and we're going to want more of that. But I stand by the claim: there is never any doubt as to what this government stands for in important foreign and security policy issues when we make decisions. But we have a debate - in the government, in the masses and in the people - on important issues, whether it is Afghanistan, rocket defence or other important issues in our time. We must be able to live with that. When I used the word'mute' about the debate -- I'm going to be careful about it in this room -- it's because I think there's been a gap in the disc, so every time there's a debate, there's SV and some states in the Workers' Party. Then I say that it's good that we have democratic channels to address foreign policy issues, and it's good that the parties catch it up. Where would we have been if there had been a paralysing consensus on all the questions on the way to a decision? But once the decision has been taken, like any decision on Afghanistan, any decision on security policy, there is an overall government behind it. There's no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e184	Dagfinn Højbråten - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e187	I guess it can't be that when there's a debate with the opposition in the government, it's affordable, and when there's a debate with the opposition in the Great Britain, it's petty. If we agree that debate is good, it should be favourable wherever it comes from. But what is not favorable is that we have a foreign minister who is now standing in the Storting and denies that there is any doubt about the government's line on foreign policy issues at any time. We've recorded in the last two weeks a play from the government's next commander - not from a strike in the Workers' Party or from SV - that she will fight for Norway to veto the US rocket shield plans in NATO. If there was no doubt about the Government's foreign policy, why was it then necessary for the Minister of Foreign Affairs himself, and for the Prime Minister, to state publicly that the Government does not currently intend to veto it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e194	I would advise the representative Højbräten to read the interview with the finance minister more thoroughly and distinguish between what she says and what is assigned to her. In an effort to make a decision in NATO, as the representative knows, the tradition is that we are working towards consensus. It's the government's policy. These are also the positions we have communicated in dialogue with Stortinget. I have respect for the debate in the hall and the debate outside, so that coin the Højbrätt here is trying to strike at me that I just accept part of the debate and not the other, it strikes back at him quickly. It's not bad that someone argues for a veto or for other kinds of attitude, but the government is going to take its decision against us attending a summit. My point is that once the government has made decisions and we've been involved in decisions in NATO, there's no doubt about where we stand, and I'm asking for examples that there should be such a doubt. But that there is a debate about those positions, even in retrospect around the different environments, so we must live with that in a democracy. But the government's position is perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e203	Lars Sponheim - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e206	Left and I share the government's view and scepticism of the rocket shield, and I hope the government, along with our allies, succeeds in avoiding us getting such a rocket shield in Europe. But I don't share the Secretary of State's debatability of that Government's No. 2 has gone out so clearly and warned of the use of such an instrument. The members of the government cannot hold a kind of seminar on the front page of the Official Journal of Bergen in the belief that only Bergen SV is reading the Official Journal of Bergen. It's clear that for us who are working to have a good dialogue in a central place in NATO, it's going to be a mistake when the Government's No. 2 alerts this. It sends the wrong signals. It has always been that when a member of the government pronounces itself, and not least a central member of the government, it binds the government. This has, in my opinion, damaged the fight against a rocket shield in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e211	I did not understand the representative Sponheim's question, but I can start by saying that we in Norway should be happy that the government does not edit the first page in the Official Journal or any other newspaper. So it's not the government's policy that's expressed there. I don't have much to add but that Norway's view of rocket shields, the issue that is related to it in relation to upgrading, in relation to the cooperation climate needed to combat modern terrorist threats, is what has been announced to the Stortinget and discussed. We now have 15 working days left for the summit in Bucuresti, and Norway is taking part in the debates. Norway has not been given an impact on all its views - it would be strange - but Norway is at least rigged enough to stand up and argue for them until a final decision is taken. That is how I have stated that Norway's strategy is to place itself in the middle of the debate, with the greatest possible influence, not only in this matter, but also in all the other issues to be dealt with by the summit - Kosovo, Afghanistan and the extension of NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e218	Eyewind Waxdal - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e221	As the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out in his reply to the representative, Höglund, we have had long traditions in Norwegian foreign policy to act together, and we have put great emphasis on maximum consensus, including with our allies. The government is now increasingly abandoning this strategy, and the rocket shielding issue is the last of several serious examples of the Government's new line alone in key foreign policy issues. The rocket shield planned is not an attack weapon, but a purely defensive weapon, which has no purpose other than to stop enemy missiles from reaching its targets. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: is it really so important for the Government to have its opposition to this pure defence weapon that we are willing to jeopardize our long-standing and important defence cooperation in NATO?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e226	I would like to have a deepening of the representative, Mr. Waksdal, on his own, on important issues. What other questions is he looking for? I do not think that this could be a case alone in this case. I would like to remind you that we have an overall big deal behind Afghanistan policy. There's been a lot of effort by all the parties to get to this - and so we've got that. I also want to play back to the party of the representative, Mr Vaksdal, because they have a party leader who believes that the UN is a threat to world peace. Nor is there any contribution to the Norwegian consensus policy on foreign affairs. So a question like rocket defense can be viewed in more ways. I respect the vision of the representative, Mr Vaksdal. There are several visions in NATO. NATO is an alliance of 26 democracies. The hallmark of such an organisation is that there are debates, but they are neat, and one respects each other’s positions until a consensus decision is taken – and Norway should be involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e233	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e236	I'm essentially going to continue where the previous main question ended. It's okay to take simple debate in the big room, but it's confusing when Kristin Halvorsen, the Minister of Defence, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs say different things about the exact same thing over a week, including the Minister of Defence's response at the main hall last week. When the Minister of Defence confirms that Norway is alone in its public opposition to the missile defence in Europe, and the Minister of Foreign Affairs is trying to be in the middle of the debate, I think most people understand that the government is not going to block a decision at the NATO Summit, but that much of what we see now is about calming down from a formulation that was not thought through well enough when you were sitting at Soria Moria, but where there is a lot of prestige for one of the government parties. What I think is important, and I hope the Foreign Minister agrees with me, is that the purpose of Norwegian security policy is to provide Norway with security. Then I don't understand how Norway's security is strengthened by the fact that the government has been on a clear collision course with NATO for weeks and months. Does this give us more European, allied support in the northern regions? Is this a contribution to victory in Afghanistan? Is it part of the fight against terrorism and drug trafficking? Gives more stability in e.g. our neighbourhoods linked to the Balkans? I would like to receive the Foreign Minister's answer to what Norwegian interests that debate serves, what Norwegian interests it serves to make us stand in a single position at NATO's Minister of Defence meeting, because it is noted in all of our allied countries how Norway stands in this debate. What Norwegian interests have been strengthened by the government’s behaviour during the past week?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e246	Let me start with a very general answer. The basic Norwegian interests are the reason why we are part of a democratic alliance of 26 countries, where we have a discussion from communiqué to communiqué, where all countries are heard, where different frameworks are set among defence ministers and foreign ministers - sometimes prime ministers and Heads of Government. It's an overall Norwegian value. That's why we've chosen NATO membership to defend those interests. If, from the fact that Norway should belong to the minority in NATO on a question - it is not so often, but it happens - should draw the conclusion that it weakens Norway's interests in the northern regions, in the Afghanistan policy, in the fight against terrorism, in the fight against international crime, what should be the marshall of Norwegian foreign policy? - Should it be that we should not seek disunity with the big and strong at any point, but put ourselves flat and become a silent, small country as a participant in the debates? It's not the government's policy. What ensures Norway's security interests is that we take our joint responsibility in a military alliance, that we have 500-700 soldiers in Afghanistan, that we participate in a comprehensive peace process, in the UN forces and so support the UN, that we have been a loyal NATO member for all years and are behind the decisions taken by NATO. However, it does not weaken Norway’s role to promote our views on a question that is also controversial. I remember that when we took over government responsibility, a NATO missile shield was worked on, that those plans are now abandoned, and that they are working on an American rocket shield. It's outside of NATO. There is no Norway that can say yes or no in one way or another. If it does, it will have consequences for NATO. How is NATO going to deal with that? There is a discussion Norway is going to participate in. I think it's good to agree with Erna Solberg on many questions. She asked me if I did not agree with her here. It is a Norwegian foreign policy tradition that we agree on a lot, but we should also be able to agree that Norway can take different views on issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e251	I note that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is using a lot of rewrites. He says "minor number". But the Minister of Defence has confirmed that this is not a minority; this is alone. Today we stand alone in opposition, and we cannot find out which Norwegian interests this is about. But in addition to being left alone, it is also noted that large parts of the parties that form the government's parliamentary basis - including several of the government representatives - choose a line of argument relating to the rocket shield, which is not technical, economic or other, which I believe could also be a reason to take a discussion about, but which is about this contributing to the arms race, such as the adoption of Russian positions. Despite the fact that a year ago the Foreign Minister debated with me even confirmed that this was not something the Russians should worry about, and that it did not contribute to a arms race, government representatives for Norway use this as an argument. Doesn't that concern the Minister for Foreign Affairs?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e256	I believe that a rocket defense raises questions about disarmament and disarmament. I think everyone sees that. I'm completely categorically saying that it's not Russia that's going to decide NATO's security choices. But that does not preclude us from discussing the consequences of such a defense on the upgrading side. We'll get in a few years -- if this is adopted -- see what has become the consequence of it. What is Norwegian interest? Indeed, Norway has a number of specific Norwegian interests. But it is Norwegian interests that we take care of by participating in security cooperation in Europe, the general international security climate - and we do so through this debate. So to the question of standing alone: What the Minister of Defense has said is that at one meeting she was the only one who made a statement about this. I can confirm that there were two-three who made contributions to it at the NATO Foreign Minister's meeting. This matter was not on the agenda. But what I can also confirm is that there are questions and discussions about this in far more than one country, not least in Poland and the Czech Republic, and also in other NATO countries. The picture that Norway stands alone in its views is, at least, not correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e263	There will be four follow-up questions - first Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e266	Now I have been listening to the Foreign Minister's exodus, which for two reasons is serious. The first reason why this is serious is that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has doubts about Norwegian foreign and security policy. The second reason why this is serious is that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is weakening the credibility of the Swedish Governments. Through this inquiry, the Foreign Minister has repeatedly said that you should not take Kristin Halvorsen seriously. We're not going to listen to what she's been saying, and we're definitely not going to believe what she's saying in the papers. So with that, the Foreign Minister has reduced Kristin Halvorsen to a parentheses. The message he then gives in Stortinget is: Listen to me, listen to the Prime Minister, but, for all things, do not listen to what SV thought, even if they are in government. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to confirm that the views of the central Swedish Governments on foreign and security policy issues have no meaning, they should not be noticed by the Stortinget or the Norwegian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e273	I agree with the representative Jensen that Kristin Halvorsen cannot be reduced to a parentheses. That is my experience in several areas, and I am pleased about that. I would also like to say that it is wise to listen to me when it comes to foreign and security policy. It's my responsibility in the government to communicate it, as well as the Prime Minister's. I think that's two pretty neat clarifications, if there was any doubt about it. But then at the same time I would say the same thing as I have said on several occasions -- and there is no explanation, but an attempt to deepen what it means to be in a democracy with multiple parties -- that you can have discussions, and that party leaders may have views, but there must never be any doubt about the decisions the government makes. I have not yet received an example here that there is doubt about the Government's decision and the ability to follow up the decisions. But that party leaders, party representatives, party teams, organisations and individuals have a vision, we must therefore live with it. I believe again that the statements made by the Minister of Finance here do not raise any questions about what is Norway's line in this matter, and we will also see that in the days remaining at the NATO summit.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e280	Dagfinn Højbråten - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e283	So far we have been told that there is no doubt that the government has not adopted any veto line in this matter in relation to NATO. What remains to be clarified--and I think that's important, because it has to do with how Norway acts in the days up to and at the NATO summit-- is it so that the government hasn't yet decided whether to veto the rocket shield case? Is there an ongoing assessment in the Government? Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs clearly answer whether veto is appropriate in such a context, or can he make it clear and dismiss any doubt that veto is not actually considered used in this matter by the Norwegian side?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e288	I think I'm going to get answers in a way that I've done before. NATO is a consensus organisation. It is in the Norwegian interest to work towards the widest possible consensus on this type of issue, which is partly a matter for NATO, partly not a matter for NATO. It is the Government’s strategy to secure a place in this debate that provides the greatest possible impact for Norwegian vision. It is not the case that some countries have an impact on all parts of their views, here, as in other parts of democracy-related policies. I don't want to go into how the government is going to make its final decision when this comes up at the NATO summit. That would be a crazy strategy in relation to the negotiations being held. The organs of the Great Government are orientated about the government's thinking, also far into the way we work. But in this open room I would say that the government's attitude to this question is clear. My position is that NATO is a consensus organisation, my position is that Norway has to ask itself in the middle of this debate, so that we can influence that question, not put ourselves on the sideline in one question, which may affect us on other issues where we want to get an insight.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e297	Lars Sponheim - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e300	I think it's easy to understand that the Foreign Minister has an unusually demanding job. No matter what he says and tells the Storting, I think most people sit with the opinion that there are great tensions in foreign policy in the Government. Many of us have been in this room for many years and heard the very different views of the different parties on these issues. - So the Foreign Minister has a demanding task, and I think it would have been a bit more honest that when it comes to reconciling parties that have historically had so different views on security policy, difficulties must arise. We have compassion for the Foreign Minister here. I know it may be on the edge, but I have hardly seen a State Council meeting the Storting with the kind of arrogance that the Foreign Minister has done today. In that case it had to be myself on my worst days! [[Laughter]] Then I actually intend to invite the Foreign Minister - between two who may have been quite arrogant in meeting this room when you are in a needed position - to say that he has a demanding task in reconciling different views in the Government, and there we will understand him very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e308	I would like to remind the Chamber that the representative Sponheim has named a goat after me, and that goat is to be particularly good at delivering mating objects on his farm. [[Laughter]] There's got to be a stubbornness to it, but arrogance rarely leads to that kind of practice! I can admit that it is demanding to be a foreign minister. It is demanding to be Minister for Foreign Affairs at a time when there are major issues of war and peace and organisation in the world, and where Norway has ambitions and a responsibility to participate. But I don't think it's more demanding than usual in a government and in relation to the Storting, where to make balances and balances. I have to stand by this I've said before -- and it's not an expression of arrogance, but an expression that I defend the working community I'm part of: we can have discussions on political issues, but when we make the decisions, there's no doubt about them, whether about the position of the decisions or our ability to follow them up in practice. It's that it's hard to work with politics, which makes some of us actually want to do that call.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e317	Jan Petersen - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e320	I think we have now, through these rounds, been told how problematic the Government is about this question. Let me go a little bit further with that. The government's problem when it comes out is that it can't convince other countries of its position. It's not strange in many ways, because the missile defense is just about defense, and it needs to be very strong reason to say that you shouldn't do anything that is exclusively for defense. When you do that, it's because we've been based on the principle of mutual risk of nuclear extinction throughout the Cold War, and it's served us well. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: In a new world where nuclear weapons spread, where terrorists and extremists can access it, and missiles come, is he just as sure that one can really rely on this principle of mutual eradication by nuclear weapons?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e329	The answer is no. You can't rely on that principle. It's one of the most problematic things. The old logic of the cold war does not apply in today's world. So the question is, is the greatest nuclear threat from countries in this great region that there is a missile coming? Whoever had to send a missile will get many missiles back at him. The biggest threat in this area is that there is a nuclear material coming into other ways, in a container or in a suitcase smuggled into another way that will hit us. It asks the question of what the big challenge is of non-proliferation. It has to be dealt with in a lot of ways. That's what we're also concerned about, that the belief that a missile defense protects us from the nuclear threats of so-called robber states is a one-sided, blind belief that at best needs to be complemented by a wide range of other measures. And then it's not that because we weren't going to be able to convince all the other countries of our positions, we're not going to have them, we're not going to argue for them! If that were the case, the strong one would decide everything in every case, and it cannot be our attitude either to democracy or international cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e341	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e344	The Minister of Foreign Affairs may remain standing, for I have a question addressed to him. With the red-greens, the country's foreign policy opposition has moved into the government offices -- if at least there can be no doubt, we've got a very good illustration of this today -- while with undiminished strength they continue their non-parliamentary action against the same policy. The opposition in Stortinget is in this way much clearer and more predictable partners for the foreign minister than the SV is. The few will doubt that Norway has a very solid and capable foreign minister. It is only a pity that he has to use so much of his diplomatic competence and his diplomatic qualities to clarify the confusion that SV creates about Norwegian foreign and security policy. The Foreign Minister called for examples of such confusion. I'll mention someone. It began with the play of the government's next commander of the boycott of Israel. There was doubt, and the Foreign Minister had to clear the doubt by writing letters to Condoleezza Rice and his fellow foreign minister in Israel. It continued with Afghanistan, where the Minister of Foreign Affairs has to stress time and again that a total increase is behind Norway's civil and military contributions, precisely because one of the government parties is both behind the decision to send soldiers to war operations in Afghanistan and at the same time organises actions to send the soldiers home. Obviously it creates confusion, because it's a government party we're talking about. Now it's the attitude of the United States rocket shields in Europe, how many of us share the scepticism expressed by the Government in the Soria Moria Declaration. There the Minister of Foreign Affairs has now had to explain that the Government is not behind the threat of vetoing NATO recently put forward by the government's next commander. This can help marginalise Norway. That's the anxiety and worry many of us express. What will the Foreign Minister do to avoid it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e359	With respect to reporting--I have to admit that the way the opposition now promotes its questions, with one-sided focus on one party in the Government, whether the foreign policy opposition enters the government and the doubt it creates for Norway, can be read as an attempt to create doubt and negate under and create a larger image than I think it is the cover for. Reflections can be made that the so-called foreign policy opposition has entered the Government. It is an interesting phenomenon that today we actually have a consensus among all the parties in Stortinget on key issues in Norwegian foreign and security policy that we have not had in recent times. Of the three examples mentioned by the representative, Højbrätten, I must admit that it is only the first thing I believe comes in the category that there was doubt. It took a day to fix it. This was a few weeks after we had taken over the government offices and dealt with the question of boycott by Israel. That's a point I'm going to give him. But in the other two examples, I do not really think the criticism holds. So as far as Afghanistan is concerned, there is no doubt about what the government thinks. A long account from me, which all government parties are behind, and which the whole Stortinget is behind, has laid a solid platform for both the civil and the military parts. We deliver on it: the special forces are back in Kabul these days. In the case of rocket defense, even the representative of the Høybräten even says that he shares the scepticism. He therefore agrees with the political scepticism we have - together with the representative Sponheim - but he then creates a big debate on alleged demands internally in the Government that we should veto. I believe that a government that should have freedom of action into a negotiation should be very careful about how to play their cards, and at what time. I think I have placed quite clearly where the government stands, by saying that we focus on standing in the middle of the debate and taking part in a consensus decision. But I notice here that the opposition is using every opportunity to run against that party and create images of the doubt it has about Norway's security, whether it's terrorism, international crime or the North. It is, in my opinion, a perspective shift and not to take this hall's decision and the government's responsibility in foreign policy, in the sense that it deserves.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e372	I note that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is now taking the opportunity to attack the opposition here in Stortinget. It's a well-known tactic, but I asked a serious question that I think very many people are asking. The fact that Norway acts as a Protestant in NATO, and that Norway’s Minister of Defence is going home and telling us that she was the only one who protested, gives a picture that Norway is an outsider. That expression has also been used in the debate, among others. in today's newspapers. The question that I asked, and which I would like to have answered, is: What will the Minister of Foreign Affairs do to prevent the consideration of the activists among the red-greens from making us end up on the sidelines in relation to our allies? It's enough to mention Denmark as an example. They ended up in such a footnote position, and spent many years getting out of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e379	Now, Protestants have to stand for what they stand for. I assume that the representative is in agreement. So it's not like that, I think, that having a point of view on a matter that isn't shared by everyone would mean drawing the conclusion: we don't promote this perspective - we don't argue for it. What will the Minister for Foreign Affairs do? I think I have to answer in a way that might not satisfy the representative. I will try to do what we have done now, namely to manage the debate on foreign and security policy for a new time, however many new questions also require new answers, by listening to them, but at the same time helping Norway, in agreement with the Storting, have positions we can argue for in international forums, which we can take in international forums, and which we can stand on. It's served us well by now, and it'll be the line forward as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e386	There will be two follow-up questions - first Øyvind Vaksdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e389	Double communication has to a great extent marked the foreign policy of the red-green government since it took over two and a half years ago. With an SV in government that has programmed that our most important ally, the United States, is the greatest threat to world peace, there is obviously a major problem in acting together. Shortly after the government change, we saw representatives from SV demonstrating against their own government in front of Stortinget in plenary. We saw it again recently when a unanimous increase approved our presence in Afghanistan, while representatives of SV communicated strong resistance in the press. We also see internal disagreement coming to the surface of the rocket shield case. These are some of the examples the Foreign Minister asked for in our previous exchange of words. Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs comfortable with such an unbridled situation? And: does the Foreign Minister think that this double communication strengthens our reputation and influence in the NATO defence alliance or other international forums? Finally, did I correctly understand the Minister for Foreign Affairs when he now blamed the opposition in Stortinget for SV's confusion in foreign policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e399	The last question has to be answered no. The opposition in Stortinget is not responsible for what SV had to do. But I believe that this focus on the SV's policy in all matters in all debates being the government's policy is a derailment of the debate. I don't think there were very good examples of issues where there's any doubt about the government's policy. I said in the debate on Afghanistan that it is such a big and difficult question that many Northmen have questions about, that it would be very sad if the parties were not also channels for the kind of debate, that they had open doors to those who had critical questions, that they gathered expertise and listened to what people had to say. But then the political process is so that when decisions are made, there must be no doubt about them. I would also like to say that doubts about Norwegian foreign and security policy - I used the one quote that the representative's party leader once had here a year ago, that the UN was a threat to world peace, perhaps party peace too - is not exactly a contribution to clarifying Norwegian foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e406	Follow-up questions - Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e409	I don't think the opposition is so worried about SV. I think the opposition is concerned that the Workers' Party, which before the elections promised not to break the old main lines and consensus lines of security policy, is now sitting and managing SV's foreign policy at the NATO summit. So back to what was my main question instead: What security and national interests do this activity serve? If, in a new and changed foreign policy situation, we are to develop a foreign policy, we must decide what is our Norwegian national interests. The northern regions are clearly such an area. We need more allies - both in terms of security within NATO and in relation to the EU - to ensure that our interests and our situation are good in relation to the challenges we have to face in the future in the North. My question then is: what national interests are we pursuing in the security policy and in foreign policy with the current activity of the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e418	With respect to reporting: conduct SV's foreign policy at the NATO Summit! We have been told in this debate that our position on rocket defence is shared by the three government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, so it is now a little more in favour of it. These are positions on which the government parties went to elections, laid down in their political platform, the Soria Moria Declaration, and for which we are working. That's democracy. That SV is one of those batches, cannot do those positions differently than that it is. We are promoting these points of view. We have not broken the long lines of Norwegian foreign and security policy. In fact, here the party of the representative of Solberg and the Progress Party represents a minority in the view of the rocket defense. What Norwegian interests do they serve? Well, Norway has Norwegian national interests. But Norway is, as a former Prime Minister has said, a country in the world. We also need positions on major international issues that are not directly related to Norway, although NATO’s security obviously also applies to Norway directly. We must be able to argue for them. If we signed out of all those debates, our perspective would be far too fast.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e423	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e426	I would like to ask questions to the Council of State Day Terje Andersen. This week's group of leftists received a letter from the Council of State Dag Terje Andersen in response to questions from us about the information provided by the Council of State on Aker Kværner at the time the government bought shares for almost 5 billion kroner. We asked to be sent what is called a due diligence review, an internal review, in order to get a full overview and a review of what the company had to have of problematic engagement, etc. I have to say it was a very surprising answer, where the Council of State actually said that there is no such review, and that you have based on sources of the type of newspapers and the Internet to know what you bought for 5 billion kroner. I think it was surprising. My experience with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the management of ownership issues and buying-in over many years is that there has always been an enormous thoroughness, that you have taken time, taken full review, thought about two or three times, cross-checked all the information - just what is called good management. There are two reasons why it is precisely when the state is a buyer that is important to do more thorough work than maybe other times. First of all, simply because you spend the people's money, and you spend the people's money, you have to be sure of what you spend them for. The second is that, in addition to being the owner of Aker Kværner after this acquisition, the State shall also exercise authority, be political authority, and deal with the political burdens that may arise from such ownership. I have two questions for the Council of State. I was advised by the Council of State to take some more time and make a thorough review of this purchase in Aker Kværner, for example. a due diligence review? Today, when he knows what lies behind the politically burdensome portfolio of Aker Kværner, cf. Sellafield and the construction of the Thorpe plant, would he, with what he knows today, have carried out such an internal inspection of the company?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e437	There is nothing in the answer that the Left Big Group has received from me, that the purchase in Aker Kværner was based – as he said – on newspaper and the Internet. I must be allowed to say in brackets that I see that some newspapers are busy producing it this way. The only time the Internet was mentioned was on questions as to whether it was known to us and to the public that Aker Kværner was engaged in cleaning up nuclear waste at Sellafield. So in that context, it was said that we knew that well. In addition, it was actually known if you went into the Internet. The fact that some newspapers are trying to make it appear that the Internet was the basis of valuation is at their disposal. I can assure the representative Sponheim that the office is intact, competent and as thorough as when the representative Sponheim was Minister of Industry. It is not that this purchase came about quickly. For several weeks it was assessed whether one should at all start talking to the two new owners in Aker Holding. The negotiation process took place over a period of two months. And yes--I was advised by my office, which is to a large extent the same thing as when Sponheim was there, to deal with this exactly the way I've handled it, with a thoroughness like, among other things. has been identified by the media as having become aware of this. We've looked into the stock exchange. We have used law firms to assess the content of the agreement, etc. So, in addition to well-qualified ownership skills in the department, we have also used external consultants to ensure quality of a purchase that has made sure that we now have a stable ownership and not least thousands of jobs in Norway, so that they can produce, get contracts and deliver good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e444	The council wrote in this letter we mention, and I also read it in today's newspapers, that there was no opportunity to conduct an internal review, or a due diligence review, of the company. I also believe the Council of State is quoted in today's newspapers as saying that the legislation prevents it. I think I dare allow myself to dispute it. The stock exchange itself has said in today's newspapers that this is the reason for the company's consent. This was a friendly purchase, so there should be no problem, of course, as long as the other shareholders were familiar with the information that came out. I believe that at this point the Council of State has misinformed both the Storting and the public by saying that this is not the case. Of course, it is possible to go through the company properly if you stick to the rules that apply. Will the Council of State take this opportunity to correct the misinformation he has given to Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e451	We went through the company thoroughly, together with external competence, before we agreed on the agreement that we are now discussing. It is true that there is no opportunity to require «due diligence» because here it is not a purchase. Here's what we're talking about buying shares. It was confirmed by the stock exchange today that it would be very unusual. Nevertheless, it is formally possible for a company to open up to «due diligence». But then I think the representative Sponheim had seen, at least if he had listened to the office that he claimed was capable when he himself was in the department, that it would have been very special if we had asked to be treated differently than other shareholders, other potential buyers in the market, at that time. In terms of valuation, which has also been a topic, it is in fact that Aker Kværner is a very liquid company - and was it at that time as well. A number of professional environments continuously evaluated the value of Aker Kværner, and the price was in line with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e460	There will be three follow-up questions - first Øyvind Korsberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e463	In yesterday's Newspaper there was an article about Oslo Børs starting an investigation to find out if the information obligation was broken when the company was set up Aker Clean Carbon. It appeared that on 24 January a stock exchange announcement was sent about the establishment of the company, while the Ministry of Economic Affairs was informed about the matter already on 22 January, i.e. two days before. Then I would like to ask if it is common practice that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade that owns is briefed prior to the exchange notification. What's the reason that Aker ASA owns 70 pst. in Aker Clean Carbon and Aker Kværner 30 p.m., as there are Aker Kværner who have helped to develop that guarantee?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e469	It is not uncommon for companies in which the State is a partner to provide information on decisions in advance of their publication, probably also to owners other than the State. That was to question no. 1st@item: inlistbox To question No. 2: The agreement on the spread of risks in relation to the development of CO2 capture and storage technologies is a purely commercial agreement between the companies involved, and it is not that I, the Council of State, will sit and approve or propose such purely commercial agreements. It is the company that is responsible for informing, and it is right that the representative said, that on 22 January we were informed that a process had been in progress for quite a long time that would be published on 24 January. So there doesn't have to be anything special about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e479	President: Torbjørn Hansen - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e482	The use of financial quality assurance by the Minister of Economic Affairs in ownership policy is strikingly arbitrary. When BaneTele merged with the Broadband Alliance, financial advisers were used for a transaction of less than NOK 1 billion. When the Government now participates in an issue in Export Finance, financial advisors are used. When the government buys shares in StatoilHydro, you use several external advisors. But just in the case of Aker Kværner's purchase of 5 billion kroner -- it's an indirect ownership, it's a complicated shareholder agreement, we know that there's close ties between Smoke and the Workers' Party, and we know that there's strong trade union interests inside the picture -- the state council chooses not to use external financial advisor. Experts have later criticised the purchase - it is a purely gift package for the Aker system. Does not the Council of State not see that this is precisely a transaction in which external financial quality assurance is crucial and that this procedure creates speculations about the integrity of this transaction?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e489	In the other examples mentioned by the representative, there have been transactions other than entering into a liquid market and buying shares. In StatoilHydro there was a valuation of two companies in relation to each other. In export finance, there is a special situation that has just been treated in Stortinget etc. Well, we also used a lot of external expertise in purchasing Aker Kværner, through Aker Holding, but with regard to pricing itself, it is such that a number of professional environments in Norway daily assess the value of Aker Kværner through the price set on the stock exchange. It would be the same environments that we could ask for a second opinion, and not based on due diligence, i.e. an increased transparency of internal documents, but information that is public - and when I say public, I mean not the Internet, but publicly available to everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e494	President: Mr Sørfonn to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e497	This theme raises fundamental questions about the mixing of roles by state ownership and is yet another example of the need to practice consistency between the company's activities and the Government's stated policies. Another recent example of this issue is that the arms producer Nammo, whose State owns 50 pst, exports ammunition to, among other things, Saudi Arabia. Yesterday, Changemaker and almost all of his youth organisations demonstrated against this. The Secretary-General of the Church's Emergency Aid has stated: ‘When the Minister of Industry does not even want to respond to the location of the ammunition, I believe that the owner shows an unacceptable inaction.’ My question is: can the Council of State guarantee that the company Nammo does not export to countries to which the state of Norway would not export? And will the Council of State ensure that the ethical guidelines for Nammo maintain a high standard and that they are published?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e509	State Council Dag Terje Andersen chooses whether he will answer this question, which is something on the side of the main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e512	If that's okay with the president, it's okay with me. There has been a central debate over the last few days, and I am very pleased with the tidyness that the representative Sørfonn puts up. Many people could have something to learn from in ownership issues, because it's demanding, as the representative says. It is therefore important to stress that the main regulation of Norwegian arms exports is, in fact, the foreign minister - who is sitting here - who is responsible for it, through the regulations applicable to all companies producing it. Annual reports are delivered to the Stortinget, the last processed in December, which goes through it thoroughly. With regard to Nammo and ethical guidelines, I can confirm the representative’s question that the ethical guidelines that are now being reviewed in the light of the ownership message will, of course, become public when they are finally adjusted. And so it is, as I said, that the strict rules on arms exports must take the form of legislation. It is not primarily ownership that can regulate this, as we would have too poor regulation in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e521	We're going to the next main question - from Jon Hunter Gåssvatn.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e524	My question goes to the State Council of Aasland. We have noticed that the number of foreign students has fallen dramatically in recent years. The number of students who take a full degree abroad is the lowest in 10 years. A major reason for this is, in our opinion, the study funding and the lack of funding for the «Freshman Year» and the first year's study in a four-year Bachelor's degree, as the Progress Party has pointed out several times earlier. At the time of the budgetary procedure at the latest, we proposed to correct this imbalance, which the parties of government voted against. Before that, the loan burden was about the same either a student out or at home. Now it can lead to three times as high a student debt to take a bachelor's degree abroad compared to the corresponding one in Norway. I expect the Council of State to agree with me that it is very positive that students get out and in addition to the professional learning language, culture, international experience and create an international contact network. I also expect her to agree that there are a number of excellent universities in other countries where education is of much higher quality than that obtained in Norway and that foreign students are taking it back with them is essential for Norwegian society. Regardless of what one might think of rankings, universities are ranked internationally, and Norway is not very high. In some foreign universities, the threshold is very high. However, I have noticed the negative attitude of the government parties in foreign studies in English-speaking countries, and I have noticed that the ministry claims to have removed what they call "beach universities" in Australia from its scholarship list, and that they are talking about unprofessional courses of study that bear the mark of holiday stays. Well-reputable British King’s College and City University were removed from the grant list, but were only reinstated after a number of students had had to send their applications to other universities. It seems that the ministry has shown some action to limit the possibility of studying abroad, as we see results from. But what has the government done specifically to stimulate young people to take their education abroad? In these days, there are a number of students who are considering studying abroad from the fall of the year. What will the Council of State actually do to stimulate them to make that choice? Or is it probably a matter that the government is just pushing ahead?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e537	I fully agree with the representative that one of the most important things we can do is to stimulate Norwegian students to study abroad. There has been no attempt at restrictions related to countries with specific languages or cultures. On the contrary, we try to stimulate students to also travel to a little untraditional countries. But this is the student's own choice. It's part of their freedom, and modern students are very up-to-date in seeing where there are good studies, and where there are good offers. As the responsible state council for this area, I absolutely take that into account. I know that there is a discussion about the financing of some parts of the study, for example. in the United States, in the freshman year. It is a question that we naturally consider, but I would like to stress that we are not alone in having the scheme we have in Norway. We share that system with many countries, because it has to do with the level of education that such funding is started. There is little agreement between the Norwegian system and e.g. the system in the United States. But I work very hard in many ways, both with bilateral student exchange agreements and with bilateral agreements between Norway and other countries on research involving opening up to students. My goal is clearly to have more students abroad and more foreign students in Norway, both in full-time and part-time studies.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e547	I thank you for your answer. Foreign studies have become increasingly expensive, and soon only rich parents can afford to send the hopeful foreigners to obtain education. I record that Stein Erik Hagen is delighted to send his son to an American elite school, and I would like to wish him luck with that, but I ask: Is it really this government's policy that Trygve Hegnar will have the roads for himself, and that Hagen will have the foreign universities for himself, or does the Council agree that it must be facilitated for all students to have equal opportunity to take education abroad, both full and partial, regardless of economic and social background?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e556	It is clearly a politically important goal for this government that there should be equal opportunities for education for all. I would also argue that the Norwegian study funding scheme is among the best in the world. But the fact is, there are many of the elite schools that are private schools, and where it's quite expensive to go. It's always been like that, and so will it. There's little we can do with just that. What we can do is equip our students with both motivation and the best possible funding to study abroad, based on the clear objective that there should be no difference between one and the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e563	In order to address the last main question, there will be only one follow-up question - from the representative of Gunnar Gundersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e566	I'm glad to hear that the research minister also wants to stimulate students to go abroad, but then we have to pass the rhetoric. Former Minister of Church and Education Gudmund Hernæs once said: Make Norway a better place. Leave the country. - I think that applies at least as much today. Knowledge is international, and Norway is a small country in a very open world with quite tough competition. In that case, foreign studies have a self-esteem. You bring a lot of recordings to a country that needs the recordings. In fact, the right has made proposals twice in its alternative government budget to focus on the quality of education and not be so focused on starting at the same level, i.e. proposing that study support be given to the ‘Freshman Year’ in non-Western countries and the United States. Will the Council of State now get past the rhetoric and see that a certain degree of liberality is actually needed here to get past the problem of the fall in the number of foreign students?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e575	I'm actually going to say that we have quite a liberalism in Norway in terms of student funding, and we're all, I think, both in government and opposition, agree that we should stimulate studies abroad. Then there will be a relatively small case in the whole discussion of this inequality between Norway and, for example, Norway. The United States of America in setting up higher-level studies. I will again stress that this is not something we are alone about. There is a common position from many countries, and in the event of a change, it needs to be addressed in a slightly different context. We can't just make a change from the Norwegian side. At least that's my attitude. That is why we continue to discuss this issue with other relevant countries, which have the exact same position as us.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e582	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e585	My question goes to the Minister of Research and Higher Education. The Soria Moria Declaration states that appropriations for universities and higher education institutions should increase, but the actual appropriations have gone in a different direction. If compensation for price and salary growth is included, there is a significant cut in the basic appropriations of universities and colleges. In addition, the cuts are cowardly, in the sense that the Government will not take any responsibility for where the institutions are going to cut, and they expect the same activity as before. As the promises of the Soria Moria Declaration clearly do not hold true, neither did the reasons given by former Minister of Knowledge Øystein Djupedal for introducing the so-called rest cutting. In the Stortinget on 9 May 2007, Øystein Djupedal said that the reason for the cuts in the university sector was that: ‘they had accumulated over the year money that was unused in the account. All our institutions therefore had significant unused funds.’ He went on to say, ‘We are talking here about hundreds of millions of dollars that have been on account at the Bank of Norway.’ [[...]] It shows that the sector's reserves were not close to what the Minister of Knowledge and the Government tried to give the impression. The consequence of this deliberate misinformation is, of course, that universities and colleges now have to cut dramatically. The University of Oslo must cut 205 million. kr. The legal faculty must cut student guidance and lectures. It was cut in the placement of medical students at the local hospital. It is not possible to publish job vacancies. The University of Bergen must cut by about 50 million. kr. They have put in place a stop to employment, and they have been promised new buildings that are not coming. At NTNU, the chemistry students have half their time in the laboratories, and they have also halved the number of lectures. A coherent sector was and is very critical of the lack of correlation between rhetoric and action on the part of the Government. Is it true that the Council of State believes that a single sector is wrong when they believe that the Government is failing both the promises and the objectives of higher education and research in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e603	There has actually been an increase in the appropriations for universities and colleges also over the last few years, although I'm going to be the first to admit, this time as before, that expectations have been higher. What has been the situation is enough that the universities to which the representatives refer have had a expectation that the cut made in the basic appropriations would be put in place. That's why we've been told that there was a situation where it was difficult for universities to do something other than cut, as they have done. The cuts to which the representative refers, such as: the universities of Oslo and Bergen have done a completely different size than the government has laid down in its budget for the university and higher education sectors. Here it's done quite a lot out of a situation that I think should have been governed in a completely different way by the universities and the colleges themselves. There is an autonomy in the system to give priority, and it has been decided to reduce activity rather flatly beyond the different institutions and faculties. I want, as I said earlier, to work towards a sufficient and good framework for the university and higher education sectors, but it is nevertheless important to make it clear that priority needs to be given to the framework to which you always relate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e612	So it is as the state councillor Tora Aasland said when she joined in that it is not the appropriations that are too small, but the expectations that are too great. The reason why universities both in Oslo and in Bergen and everywhere else in the country have done exactly what they have done is that they had a expectation that the Council of State Øystein Djupedal said when he cut the budgets in 2007, namely that this was a severance cut, was real. It has proved not to be, and the institutions and students now have to pay the price for it. The University of Tromsø must cut between 30 and 50 million this year. NOK, and they also got a large cut of 25 million. kr in 2007. They have to cut about 30 jobs. The Minister of Foreign Affairs wrote in an article in the newspaper Nordlys on 21 July 2006 that the University of Tromsø itself is the hub, or plays a crucial role, in knowledge development in the northern regions. Then I have to ask the Council of State Aasland: does the Council of State think that the cuts and cancellations at the University of Tromsø are what are needed to carry out a good Northern Region operation?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e619	I want to clarify what I said at the beginning of the first answer I gave, that there has actually been a total increase in the appropriations for the university and higher education sectors. We have also been able to increase by a total of 350 scholarship positions, which also benefit the University of Tromsø. I'm going to be the first to admit that expectations have also been high there, and that maybe there has also been a priority in such a way that you haven't been able to bet on what was the most important thing to bet on, and instead reduced on things that might have become unnecessary noise around. But I repeat what I said at first, that we have a situation where it is fully possible for the individual institution to prioritize its activities on the basis of the framework they have, and that is an increase in the framework also in relation to the increase in the number of scholarship positions. For this reason, it is fully possible for individual universities both in the north and in the south to meet the professional opportunities they want to give priority to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e626	For the sake of time, there will be one follow-up question, from Jon Hunter Gåssvatn.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e630	I noticed that Øystein Djupedal said that it was a piece of rest that killed him as a state councillor, and when the state councillor Aasland took over the key, she said that she came 'to the covered table', and she promised to continue Djupedal's efforts. We hope that through the government's budgetary negotiations, Aasland has had more impact than the Djupedal had in this area, so that we can bring back the cuts that have been in colleges/universities and in the research sector. However, two institutions have been penalised twice by this government. The University of Stavanger and the University of Østfold were also cut in their appropriations for the rent compensation before this fall of rest. Does the Council of State see that it can be unreasonable for these institutions to be able to cope financially with these conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e637	The situation is that we have a system that we follow up as fairly as possible to individual educational institutions. As far as the year 2008 is concerned, it is an important task for me to ensure that the various institutions are treated fairly both in terms of the way we distribute the funds, and in terms of the situation they face with different challenges on construction and rent. So I'll do my best to get this done in a good and fair way. I see that we have a system that invites me to that, and that gives me the opportunity I can get to a fair distribution of the funds we have for the different institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e642	The oral question procedure is now over. As is known, moulting and laying have been lifted from 1 October 2009. Then all the laws will be dealt with by Stortinget. On an incubation, State Council Dag Terje Andersen today came to hand over the Storting two legislative proposals, and the Landfill President received them by mistake without seeing it. The president of the Storting will ask for that transfer to be cancelled at today's meeting. If there are no objections, it is deemed to be approved. AscendingSort order for mail groups Then State Council Dag Terje Andersen will pass on the one staging proposition that was to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e649	Yes, President. And in our parliamentary system, it is true that there are no parliamentary implications for both a Council of State and a President-in-Office of the Council being misled at the same level. I will then, as the President says, bring the King's proposal to the Grand Council on changes in the 2008 state budget under the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, etc., and I am sure that it will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e656	The President will ensure that it will be dealt with in a very regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e661	There will be a wide range of changes in the list of questions drawn up, and in this context the President will refer to the overview distributed at the premises of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. - It is deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, by André Oktay Dahl, to the Minister for Finance, is addressed by the representative Linda C. Hofstad Helleland. Question 3, from the representative of Torbjørn Andersen to the Minister for Oil and Energy, fails, as the questioner is not present. Question 5, from the representative of Vera Lysklött to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Research and Higher Education who directs him. Question 6, from the representative Hanne Dyveke Sweets to the Minister for the Environment and Development, has been transferred to the Minister for Oil and Energy, who is directing him. The question will be answered in response to question 2. Question 12, from the representative Svein Flätten to the Minister for Transport, has been transferred to the Minister of Justice, who is directly responsible. Question 13, from the representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen to the Minister of Justice, has been transferred to the Minister of Knowledge who is directing him. At the request of the Minister of Knowledge, this question is moved and answered in response to question 23, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 16, from the representative, Ms Søreide, to the Minister for Justice, is addressed by the representative, Mr Sanner. Questions 19 and 20, from Bent Höie and Kari Lise Holmberg, respectively, to the Minister for Renewal and Administration, will be answered by the Minister for Health and Care on behalf of the Minister for Renewal and Administration, who has been removed. Question 21, from the representative Anne Margrethe Larsen to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, has been transferred to the Minister for Labour and Inclusion, who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e690	This question, from the representative of André Oktay Dahl to the Minister for Finance, will be raised by the representative of Linda C. Hofstad Helleland.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e693	‘The Datacrim department in Kripos investigates many identity thefts every year and says that the number of cases is increasing. According to the Data Protection Authority, this is due to the fact that a lot of person-sensitive information is public and easily accessible. Will this lead to a change in the Government’s view on public exposure to the tax lists of citizens?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e700	The publication of tax lists is important in order to strengthen the critical debate on fiscal matters and can contribute to the social control of the equality authorities. Confidentiality of the result of the equation may provide the basis for speculations about the work of equations in general and on the determinations for individuals or groups of taxpayers. It is primarily the press that can contribute to critical debate on differences between real and tax values. It is therefore important that the press have easy access to the tax lists. After the amendment of the law last June, the press is once again given access to the tax lists in electronic form. This contributes to a wider dissemination of tax list information than in the past. In my view, this is important to stimulate the debate on fiscal matters. Information on income and tax conditions is important in the societal debate. From time to time, claims are made that information from the tax registers has been used for criminal purposes such as: identity thefts. Whereas, in order to achieve the objective of publication, it is necessary to be able to identify the individual taxpayers; The tax lists therefore contain information on the name, place and year of birth of taxpayers. The tax lists do not contain information on the street address, birthday and month of birth. One of the reasons for this omission is that without this information it would be more difficult to use the tax lists for, for example: identity theft. Nor is there any evidence available to show that information from the tax lists, as they are today, has contributed to identity thefts. It will in any case be difficult to know where someone who wants to commit criminal acts gets their information from. Even if so, for example. is shown in the tax lists that some people have large incomes or wealth, it is not necessarily the source of the information. This may, for example: be known in the local environment, or otherwise visible, such as: by the person owning a large house or driving an expensive car. In my opinion, therefore, there is no reason to amend the rules on the publication of the tax lists.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e715	I thank the Council of State for the answer. As the Council of State is concerned, it is true that such matters are linked to a number of criminal acts. For a while ago, a couple in Bergen were ransacked after criminals had found them on the tax lists via the Internet, and here they saw a very clear connection. I understand that banks, insurance companies and credit information companies must have the tax lists delivered. Likewise with the press, it has to easily access the tax lists. But I do not understand that the publication of the tax registers should weigh more than the protection of privacy. Can the Council of State answer what she thinks about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e724	Then we disagree on that matter, because I think it is important to have public information about what are the actual conditions of taxation. It is very difficult to imagine having a system where the press could access that kind of information, but not the public. Publication contributes to a public debate on taxation and the tax system and how it actually works. So, of course, it's changing how, for example. taxpayers who have particularly good income are able to hide it in a simple way, but I think that with regard to most people who have large assets, or who may be exposed to that type of crime, this will be known in relation to how they live, and what kind of signals they give otherwise. Otherwise, we have tried to secure this against identity theft as best we can, through the fact that birthday, birth month and street address are not public in the tax registers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e733	On the Government’s website, you can read about how to avoid identity theft, how to prevent it, discover it and fight it. For me, it becomes a paradox when the authorities at the same time facilitate identity theft by publishing the tax lists. Because even if there are limited personal data available from the tax registers, it can be linked and linked to personal data collected by criminals from other registers. What can the Council of State do to make it more difficult for criminals to commit identity theft than it is today?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e738	There is, of course, an important issue that the representative here raises, because there is a balance between different concerns. But we believe that publicity around taxes, and who pays taxes and how much, is important in the social debate. Then we've done it in as well as we can, because the birthday and the month of birth are not public, and the street address is not connected to it either. It's a balance that I think is reasonable, and that's how far we get in that balance, as far as I can see today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e746	‘Industrial power Møre’s gas power plant project was recently rejected by NVE. Political leadership on CO2 clean-up is at the root of the rejection, but the NVE also assesses gas power plants with CO2 cleaning for unprofitable and refrains from granting a concession with orders for such clean-up. All three gas power projects existing in the region at the time of the Government’s accession have now been scrapped. When the NVE will now require CO2 cleaning to grant concession but does it not believe it will be profitable, does the Council of State believe that more gas power plants will be realised in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e762	It is true, as the representative says, that on 6 March this year, Norway's watercourse and energy directorate rejected the application by Industriekraft Møre for the concession for the development of a 450 MW thermal power plant in Fränna Municipality of Møre and Romsdal. The application concerned a conventional gas power plant without capture and storage of CO2. This decision was taken by NVE on a maritime basis. Since the matter can be appealed to the Ministry of Oil and Energy, I cannot comment on this specific matter in more detail. It is only at the time of any review that this matter is dealt with politically. It is a premise on the question that all three gas power plants existing in the region at the time of the accession of the Government are now being scrapped. I am not familiar with the fact that the Industriekraft Mid-Norway in Skogn has set aside its case, and the situation is that Forest has a concession and can start building, if they think it is appropriate, and they get profitability in the project. In addition to this, I have challenged Shell to come up with a concept for a gas power plant with CO2 handling that will be dedicated to the socket. I would like to take this opportunity to stress that the government's more general policy on the framework conditions for gas power plants in Norway is firm. We suggest that any allocation of new concessions to gas power plants should be based on CO2 removal. The government contributes financially to CO2 removal from the gas power plants in Mongstad and Kårstø, and not least the government is contributing heavily to the development of a test facility in Mongstad. Through this, we will make important contributions to the further development of knowledge about CO2 capture, to the scaling up of such technologies and to the wide application of such technologies. Furthermore, important frameworks have also been drawn up through quota policy. The government has recently consulted the national allocation plan for climate allowances for the 2008-2012 period. It is proposed that high-efficiency CHP and gas power plants based on clean-up should be allocated free quotas - in line with other key European countries. I would also like to stress that the government is very concerned about the power situation in central Norway. We have a tough situation in Central Norway, but the government is well aware of the situation. New transmission lines will be built. Renewal of renewable energy production is being established. A new round of investment aid for wind power is announced. Enova supports energy efficiency improvement and conversion to, inter alia: bioenergy. In addition, the mentioned gas power projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e790	In the NVE press release, when they rejected Industrial Power More, they said it was done because of political leadership. So the NVE has taken into account the policy of the Government. It's very interesting if the government comes to a different conclusion from what the NVE has done, because that means that a disfellowshipping policy, and it would be joyous. In the case of gas power plants on Forests, a continued concession, but on the previous visit of the Council of State to the Nord-Trøndelag, everyone who was present perceived that the Government will not lift a finger to help to realize it. The government has so far not lifted a single finger, even under the previous oil and energy minister, to help the forest on its way. There is still no gas power plant. There is still no clarification of other framework conditions. The government's policy is firm, says the Council of State. Yes, it consists of CO2 cleaning at start-up, as the Council of State has said earlier in a Question Time, but the Government has never clarified what this contribution to achieving CO2 clean-up will consist of. Then we come back to what was the question: does the Council of State believe that she will be able to realize more gas power plants in Norway? The reason why this is interesting, not least because of Middle Norway, is that the previous Minister of Oil and Energy said in the Address Paper on 24 January 2007: ‘There is no longer any doubt. At least one gas power plant must be built in central Norway in the coming years. No other solutions are available to ensure sufficient electricity to the national compartment.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e808	The most important thing we can do now in terms of the development of gas power plants is to contribute to the development of technology that is applicable and that is commercial. We have to get the prices of the technology down. It is important for possible future use in Norway. It is important for us to be able to clean both coal and gas power internationally. That's the overwhelming thing we're about to do. That's why the testing center in Mongstad is so important. That's why it's important that we get clean-up both at Kårstø and at Mongstad, so that we get experience from full-scale cleaning. That's the most important thing we can do. So the story is as follows: the gas power plant in the forest has emission permit and energy concession. They can simply start today if they are able to come up with a concept in the framework of the EEA Agreement. I have said that we would like to go into the discussion with them if they manage to present such a concept.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e815	I record that for the second time, the Council of State fails to answer the real question, namely whether she herself believes that gas power plants will be realised in Norway. Forests have a concession. Forests have emission permits. Yeah, but they don't have gas. The Government has not done anything to ensure that the State has a responsibility of authority to supply gas to the large consumers. There the government has failed. But I'm recording that the Council of State says that the development of CO2 cleaning is overwhelming for what's going to happen in terms of gas power. The former energy minister from the same party, based on the same government statement as the current Minister of Energy, said that gas power plants need to solve the power crisis in Central Norway. And it also has the state council recognised is pretty close to coming, the next few years - we're not talking about 2016-2018, but about 2010-2011. Then a question has to be asked: does the Council of State not see some disadvantage for Middle Norway in that one will first develop CO2 cleaning before one can solve the power crisis by building a gas power plant?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e828	We are well aware of the power situation in Central Norway. Not least, it's vital that we get transfer lines up. That's what we're doing. I've expressed my opinion that it's crucial for the region that we get up the line between Ørskog and Fardal. It does not come up until 2012, but then we are in a very good situation in the region. So my starting point is that there may be a need to establish a gas power plant in the region. That's exactly why I asked Shell to look at the possibility of developing a gas power plant based on Aukra, and dedicated to the socket. For some of the challenge in Central Norway is just that the socket draws so much energy. That is why I have taken the initiative to work out concepts for gas-fired solutions in the region. Forests are also there with all possibilities. I discuss with them when they come up with a concept within the framework of EEA legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e842	So we go to question 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e848	This question, from the representative Hanne Dyveke Süttar to the Minister for the Environment and Development, has been transferred to the Minister for Oil and Energy, who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e851	‘NVE count shows that there is a hydropower potential in sheltered watercourses of as much as 44.2 TWh. The government wants to increase its commitment to renewable energy but has not been willing to look at this potential to date. Watercourse protection started in 1973. Technological developments since then suggest that the power potential can be exploited more prudently and will also be able to take care of the intentions behind the protection. Will the Council of State initiate a re-examination of the protection plans with regard to CO2 free power generation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e861	For the sake of order only: since the question concerns my constitutional responsibility, the matter has been transferred from the Minister for the Environment and Development to the Minister for Oil and Energy. In 1973, 1980, 1986 and 1993 the Stortinge adopted the Verne Plan for Watercourses. Supplementing the protection plans was adopted in the United Kingdom in 2005. The protection plans cover different watercourses which together form a representative section of Norway's watercourse nature. In the context of the supplementation of the protection plan, Stortinget decided to open the concession treatment of power plants with installed power up to 1 MW in sheltered watercourses. The assumption was that such expansions should not weaken the protection value of the watercourses. I am aware of the power potential that lies in the sheltered watercourses, and that due to the climate challenges there can be argued for a review of watercourse protection. At the same time, the need for climate-friendly renewable energy must be seen in conjunction with other environmental values. Watercourse nature is unique and Norway has an international responsibility to protect and manage this natural heritage. Watercourse protection plays a very important role in this context. At the same time, we have to manage our protected watercourses so that we can be sure that these watercourses at all times meet the requirements of the protection values that the Storting has used through the treatment of the protection plans over the years. I do not think it is appropriate to take watercourses out of the protective plan, but we consider a more differentiated management of the protection. This may mean that the protection is strengthened in some watercourses, and this may mean that you can relax the protection of others, but then without jeopardising the protection values.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e872	In the first protection plans from 1973 and 1980, it was important to protect whole watercourses. The individual elements of the watercourse itself were not further assessed. That's one of the reasons why you think it might be time to go through it. The protection plans also put an end to both the upgrading of existing installations and the construction of new ones. Now the government has said that they want to stimulate the potential for upgrading existing hydropower plants. Will this also apply to the power plants in sheltered watercourses, and what may be done?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e879	I'm living busy that we're going to use our watercourses wisely, and that we're going to use them also to produce energy. That's why I'm busy alive with small power, and I want to facilitate the development of our small power potential. Then we have a significant potential for development in watercourses that are not protected. That's why I'm going first and foremost to have the attention directed towards it. But as I said, I believe that there may be a basis for assessing more differentiated management also in areas that are protected, and that is what I am going to use in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e886	When the supplementary protection plan was examined in 2005, a representative proposal, Document No, was also examined. 8:14 for 2004-2005, and I expect the Council of State to have an in-depth knowledge of it as she was one of the proposers. In that debate, joint proposals were put forward by the Centre Party and the Progress Party to stop the protection measures until further notice, go through this and see what could be changed. Now Åslaug Haga has become a state councillor and has the opportunity to clean up and go through this for yourself. Then I ask, what can you do? What will be done?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e893	We'll do exactly what I've said, look at the possibility of differentiating the management of the protection. It would have to mean that we go into each case and see if there are any options for making wise adjustments. It may end up tightening up protection, because the protection values are not adequately protected, but it may also mean an extension, if it is possible in parallel with the protection defined by the Storting. So my answer to the question is that I want to follow up on the proposal by approaching the issue in a differentiated way, by looking at individual matters. But we must never forget that we still have a large potential in non-protected watercourses, and I believe the representative and I quickly agree that it is also an important area to work with.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e900	So we go back to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e913	This question falls because the representative is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e920	I have a question for the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs: ‘Regional development becomes an important task for the counties in the future. The counties can work on regional development across municipal and county boundaries and thus see larger regions in the context. If this is to happen, it is necessary that all the states have resources for such work. Today there are very, very big differences between the states. Does the Council of State believe that this will be an important task for the county councils in the future and will the Council of State ensure that all are allocated sufficient resources for the work?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e929	The government has in the big news about the administrative reform, St.meld. No 12 for 2006-2007, Regional priority - regional future, set up to make county municipalities strong regional development actors. It can only be a reality if they get new tools and new tasks. A few weeks ago, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs issued a comprehensive hearing note with concrete proposals for new tasks in the fields of industrial development, transport, regional research funds, training, the cultural sector, fisheries management and environmental protection. Some tasks within the agricultural and food area and environmental protection must be clarified later. I plan to submit a joint proposal to the Stortinget with concrete legislative proposals and proposals for any changes in the county breakdown in early autumn 2008. St.meld. No 12 suggests that the new tasks should initially be financed through the framework of the county councils. When the tasks are now clarified, concrete work will begin on the preparation of cost keys in the income system, or clarification on the financing of the new tasks. The content of this issue will be presented in the 2010 Community Proposition, which will be presented in spring 2009. The government's final proposals will be in the 2010 government budget. When it comes to the current role of the county councils in relation to regional development, I would point out that the county works to a large extent across both local and county borders, even across national borders, through the INTERREG programme. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has given increased access to regional and regional policies. I've been granted extra privileges by the state of central Austland. In this way, all the counties have been given greater opportunities to drive regional development. However, the permissions of the typical districts will also be the largest in the future. Today, North Norway in particular receives a lot of resources in the area of regional and regional policy. This is related to the fact that the challenges both there and in other districts are particularly important in securing construction and value creation. That's probably the way it'll be in the future, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e940	I thank the Council of State for the answer. We know that there are extremely large differences between the counties in terms of regional development funds. We have e.g. Nordland, which has over 200 million. kr, but Eastfold, which is my state, has 6 million. kr. All the counties around the Oslofjord have a very small population of about 5-10 million. kr. Two years ago, a new 100 million was added. NOK, but there was no special increase for the counties that were so low. I think Eastfold went up by a million or two. I agree that there should be some difference in relation to district municipalities in the north, etc. But the differences today are far too big, and if we want to take seriously that all the municipalities are going to be involved in regional development - and it's just as important in the Oslo area as it is otherwise - we have to do something with that distribution key. Will the Council of State take the initiative?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e951	The President will remind you that all speeches are to be passed through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e954	Let me stress that I thought the representative raised an important question. It points to the role of all municipalities as regional development actors, and it also points to the importance of cross-border regional cooperation, where it is of course important that - we say - the most central states have funds. There may be a discussion of how large a volume is. In 2008, the 60, which is relevant here, is $1,231.85 million. kr. Of them, I think Eastfold had a total of 18.82 million. kr, including inter-regulators.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e961	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think there has to be a change in this. I don't need to use the word ‘substantial change’, but also in the eastern part of the world, there are an incredible number of challenges - in terms of transport, the environment, lack of land, dense population growth, etc. This makes the cooperation that can happen in those regions incredibly important. If the counties do not receive increased funds in terms of regional development, it is not the case that these counties have funds to use for such purposes through the framework grant. There they are also lower than the rest of the country. That is why I again ask the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: does she agree that at least they need a minimum allocation so that they can deal with these matters properly as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e970	The representative makes a good argument that all municipalities should have resources for the measures covered by the regional development network. I've let myself be impressed. cooperation between several counties, e.g. Eastfold and Akershus, and, not least, also in the Interreg context. If I want to initiate a change in the distribution key, I don't want to notify you here. I may have thought that the volume of funds would have something to say in this way, and also the trend now towards ever-increasing centralisation. For me, it's important all the time to focus on people having freedom of choice when it comes to busing themselves, even outside the most central Auslands.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e982	This question, from the representative of Vera Lyskleätt to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Research and Higher Education who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e985	I have the following questions for the Minister of Research and Higher Education: ‘85 pst. the population of Norway receives water from a municipal waterworks. Water is our most important food. In order to keep up with natural take-offs among engineers in the water and sewerage sector, 28 new ones must be trained and recruited each year. In 2006, only 15. If this trend continues, the number of engineers in the VA sector will be halved by 2020. Has the Council of State considered whether the State should contribute more than at present in order to ensure the future competence of the water and sewerage sector?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e994	I can assure the representative that this government is taking seriously the problems of recruitment in the field of technology, and has established as part of its real-life strategy ‘A joint raising for the real subjects’ a forum, the National Forum for Real Science. This forum will engage in dialogue with the labour market on how to address the challenges. I am not familiar with the source of the representative's figures for the need and demand for engineers with special competence in water and sewerage, and it is difficult to find exact figures in terms of people with this kind of specific competence. Several institutions have topics on water and sewerage operations as part of specialisation in construction training, and figures from the Right Education Statistics Database indicate that the number of candidates with this competence is higher than that to which Lyskleatt refers. However, there is reasonable reason to believe that the municipal sector is experiencing challenges in recruiting engineers when we now see that the private sector also has problems filling vacancies. Higher education institutions and universities have a high degree of professional autonomy, and it is to a large extent up to each institution which educational services they choose to provide. This may in some cases have a negative impact on specialised education services that do not appear attractive to students. On the other hand, institutions have a responsibility to train candidates with skills that society needs, and thus to make these training services more attractive. In general, authorities use different tools to facilitate the availability of sufficient numbers of young people with a good level of real-life skills, including: sees engineering professionals as a possible career path. As a follow-up to the Government’s real-time strategy, the Ministry of Knowledge has developed annual action plans. The current action plan highlights inter alia: use of training practices as a means of providing students with an insight into working life and thereby motivating them to complete their education. At the same time, the various sectors themselves have to take a primary responsibility for recruitment. Municipalities should make use of practices and other measures to demonstrate to engineering students the exciting opportunities offered by water and sewerage specialisation. A good initiative I am familiar with is a common ‘trainee’ system in road, water, sewerage and renovation, which eight municipalities and three intercommunal companies in Rome have established. In summary, the Government is doing a great deal to increase the total number of candidates with technological skills. We're trying to make sure that the different industries are able to show up. The water and sewerage sectors also need to be more efficient at exploiting instruments and measures that allow them to attract a sufficient proportion of candidates.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1009	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I have follow-up questions. We're all busy developing and trying to do things better. The large investment in engineering training in the 1960s and 1970s contributed to improving infrastructure in the municipal sector and to bringing local welfare to a world-leading level. Now we are in an era when more and more professionals are getting longer and longer training courses, while education in the technical sector and engineering training are becoming among the shortest. A simple grip from the state would be doing something about the length of education, but maybe it's not the course we're going to start at. Perhaps we should rather look at how the technical sector, with the good education that it has, can be involved in research and development, to make the public sector more interesting and attractive to work in? Has the Council of State considered research and innovation in the technical sector - as part of the state's commitment to reputation in the municipal sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1018	It's primarily research and higher education that's my responsibility, and I've already explained that we're putting quite a lot of energy and emphasis on recruiting more people to study real science. In the context of the follow-up to the Steernø Committee, we are going through all the courses, which gives us a starting point for assessing the shorter and longer courses. In this context, of course, engineering training is very important. I would also like to agree with the representative that it is important to get close contact with the practice. I think it's important that municipalities and institutions dealing with this include students, students and recruits in their work. And I think it's necessary that we still have campaigns to get up the interest and commitment -- both in boys and girls -- to study engineering and technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1027	I also thank you for this answer from the Council of State, and I have one last question. The engineering profession is very human-dominated. In relation to what I raised in my main question, i.e. engineers in the VA sector, this is also very much the case there. What will the Council of State do to increase the proportion of women among applicants for the different types of engineering training?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1034	This is a matter that I am very concerned about. We're trying to raise the proportion of women in both real and technological science and higher education. The best way to do this is to motivate girls to become interested in the type of education as early as possible. I have great faith in that, for example. The work on science centres around the country is helping to stimulate the kind of interest, but the concrete campaigns that the Ministry of Knowledge has helped to launch, hopefully also have a good effect on getting more girls to choose technical subjects and engineering subjects. I hope we see results from that. At least it's not on our will to bet on, for example. such campaigns and on good information in order to raise the interest of - and to get more girls to take - these subjects.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1039	Question 6 has been answered earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1045	The question goes to the Minister for the Environment and Development: «An article in the newspaper Nordlys on 5 March shows that the use of road salt causes poisoning in drinking water where the source of drinking water and road are close to each other. It also appears in the case that there are no national regulations restricting or preventing the release of road salt. Do the Councils see the need for legislation on the use of road salt to prevent contamination of drinking water sources?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1054	First, I would like to thank Mr Korsberg for his question. Of course, it is very important that we ensure a good environmental status in watercourses, lakes and groundwater. Potable water sources are protected by the drinking water regulation. This Regulation prohibits contamination of water supply systems which may result in contamination of drinking water. Local food surveillance may prohibit or impose conditions on activities which contaminate or could endanger the contamination of drinking water. Pollution of aquatic environments in general is initially prohibited under the pollution law, unless specifically authorised. However, there are exceptions for pollution which do not cause significant damage and disadvantages. The Pollution Act also applies to pollution caused by road salinisation. Last year, the Road Directorate presented a report with results from an environmental impact study in road lakes. The study showed negative environmental effects of salting in some lakes. State pollution authorities were informed in contact with the Road Directorate that, on the basis of the report, action would be taken on the road sections in question. This involves primarily the conversion of the salting routines. The Directorate of Roads is also stepping up research and development activities, such as: is aimed at identifying environmentally friendly alternatives. State pollution control has recommended that environmental effects related to road salinisation be actively monitored through water management, the so-called water management regulation. General management plans shall be drawn up for the water regions, such as: shall include a programme of measures to achieve the objective of improving the state of the environment. All relevant sectors shall cooperate on actions. The Ministry of Transport has asked the Directorate of Road to monitor the environmental impact of road salinisation through this work. I expect road authorities to continue their efforts to improve their knowledge of methods and alternatives to road salinisation and to implement appropriate measures. As a result, there are already a number of rules dealing with pollution caused by road salt. In addition, the road authority shall follow up environmental effects identified. So I don't see that per person. Today there is a need to develop a separate legislation on the use of road salt. However, I will follow the results of the water management work and consider, if necessary, the specific restrictions on road salinisation later, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1069	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It was to the extent of a rather demanding answer to follow up; there were many regulations to deal with. Based on what the Council of State said, it may seem that part of the law is in place, but that it may not be used that much. Based on the article in the newspaper Nordlys - it also points to some other issues - it is clear that this is a problem. Does the Council of State see the need to inform municipalities in a, perhaps, better way with regard to the control of pollution caused by the use of road salt?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1076	Let me first say that I agree with the representative of Korsberg that it was a demanding answer to follow up. It was a demanding answer to read out as well. I usually don't read answers, but since there were so many things to follow up on here, I kept to the script for the point and the dot today. As can be seen from the answer, there are a number of different instances involved in this work, but that there is a real problem that Korsberg raises, there is also no doubt about it. The main responsibility lies with different pollution authorities for assessing the hazards and road authorities for the practical implementation of measures. Of course, there will always be balances. Salting is an instrument for, inter alia, to reduce traffic accidents, which is an important theme for all of us, and it must be balanced against pollution. Of course, when it comes to the specific question of informing the municipalities, we have to look at it. Especially if there are municipalities who themselves feel that this is a real problem in their area, they have to make contact, and we have to make sure to contribute to the necessary information.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1087	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I see that, among other things, The Norwegian Nature Conservation Association has also requested a tightening of the legislation, and they refer to the precautionary principle. We've discussed that in a number of other contexts here, so maybe we shouldn't do that. Given that this is a problem affecting a number of laws and regulations and in so far as more departments as well: does the Council of State need to control the use of road salt, which - I was saying - may be given a clearer focus on the use of road salt?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1096	The SFT’s view is that this is best regulated by the so-called water management regulations. The state pollution control department is involved in this work, but I would like to make an extra contact with them to make sure that this work is followed up. It also contributes itself to increased focus on the problem that Korsberg addresses the matter in Stortinget. This must be followed closely in the future. I am also pleased with what is in the papers here, which I am sure the Minister for Transport will follow up, namely that the road authorities will also continuously assess their use of it, whether it can be reduced, and whether you can have a transition to salting or other maintenance that reduces this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1106	My question goes to the Minister for Transport: ‘Early driving costs a great deal to society. The estuary follows annual migration routes and accumulates in some winter pastures. The deliberate and correct feeding of elk has proved to be an effective means of keeping it away from road and rail. Does the Council of State consider it interesting to enter into more committed and long-term economic cooperation with landowners and research in this area, so that one can reduce the driving problem and acquire more knowledge of the impact of the action?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1115	The railway system, the state road system and local landowners have close and binding cooperation with local game managers in the planning and implementation of prevention measures against the application of cervids. The organisation of this cooperation has remained unchanged for the past five to seven years and consists of local game managers planning to implement priority actions with financial support from among others. The railway station. The municipalities have received approximately 3 million unpaid. kr in the Nordic countries and in the Nordic countries during this period. In the period from 1 July 2006 to 30 June 2007, a total of approx. 6 300 cervids in traffic - approx. 5,500 on the road and 800 on the railway. On average, 1,300-1,400 moose lose their lives on the Norwegian road every year. Hedmark is the second worst county, with approx. one third of all runs. The main reason for this is enough that this county also has the largest density of elk. A number of measures have been taken to reduce the number of wild birds in road traffic. However, it is not possible to conclude that roads in much of the country pass through wild areas, and that the vegetation along the roads is attractive to the wild, especially during winter. Set-up of gamers is the most effective measure to prevent wild game from entering the road, but it is both unrealistic and little desirable to infiltrate the entire Norwegian road network. The wild gardens will be used, among other things. enhance the barrier effect of road and road traffic. Another measure is the removal of the most attractive vegetation along the road. The Road Administration also participates in several cooperation projects, including: feeding has been attempted. On the Northern Railways, the Railway Agency’s actions have mostly consisted of deforestation and spraying along the most heavily charged routes. In addition, emergency measures such as the launch of track-side leases have been implemented in connection with major snowfalls. On the Rørosbanen it has also been carried out feeding on routes that are suitable for this purpose. This work will be continued. Development is also dependent on population size. I see here my answer to question 11 on Wednesday 13 February 2008. I have afterwards - in letters from the Ministry of Transport to the Directorate of Roads of 27 February - asked the department to initiate an assessment of whether the population of elg is so large that he poses a risk to road safety. It is foreseen that the assessment will be carried out in consultation with the Railway Agency and the responsible Directorates. In 2007, the Road Authority launched a programme to evaluate measures to reduce the number of wild game launches. The evaluation shall be completed during 2009 and shall provide a basis for recommendations on cost-effective and targeted actions. Both the State Road Service and the Railway Agency focus to a large extent on the application of game, and, together with the landowners, have close and committed cooperation with game management. There is also work to increase knowledge. I see, of course, very positive about this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1132	I thank you for a supplementary answer and understand that the Council of State is concerned about the problem. The reason why I took this up, was that the answer in the questionnaire she herself referred to was a little unyanished, that you wanted to shoot down the trunk. The research cracks very strongly in view of whether this is at all a realistic and effective means, for this has to do with both snow depths and game migration, and that the roads are actually located in areas that are exposed to winter grazing. So this is where the research breaks down, and it's interesting to find new knowledge. And there's a lot of interest here. If we take the first-hand value of elghakt in Norway, it's worth 300-350 million. kr. Accidents cost society 250 million. kr a year, in addition to there are many sufferings. In order to bring the Council of State into a slightly more nuanced view, it may be said that this is a matter of great interest, and in fact more research should be done on what is most effective.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1139	I'm totally saying that this is a social problem where we don't have a good enough knowledge base. I registered myself that what came out of the previous answer was something unhealthy. It happens that what we've been leading us in this room, it's going to be when it's translated into the media. From my point of view, as I said, I followed up on the question of sending a letter to the State Road Administration, just to get a job going where one looks more closely at this. Then the State Roads Agency and the Railway Agency will assess whether they want to put a job out, or whether they have people who can do this themselves. I leave that to them to consider. It is also such that there are great variations between summer and winter. Of course, it has to do with the fact that grazing along broken rags in winter makes it easier for wild people to find something that is almost feed, than going out into the woods. Snowfall triggers, as we sometimes see, a massive migration of game in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1146	I can recommend to the Council of State the use of the environment at the University of Hedmark at Evenstad. They already have a lot of expertise in this area. I also share the assessments around this with gamers, because there's quite a lot of interference. Where there's very high traffic, and where there's a great danger, it's obviously an instrument. But it has to be in the least possible places, because it disturbs a lot. I myself have quite a lot of experience in feeding. In my own municipality, Åsnes, we started feeding as early as the 1980s. The road to Sweden was one of the most vulnerable roads in the case of moose driving, and there were quite a number of roads each year. After the start of the grazing project, accident statistics have actually fallen dramatically. Again, there are many good approaches to reducing the level of conflict. Basic owners can retain values, while at the same time sustaining society significantly reduced costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1155	It is quite right that there is good experience with different projects when it comes to feeding, as it is in the representative’s municipality of origin. The Road Administration of the State is involved in several such cooperation projects, including: feeding has been part of the project. Another measure that has also proved effective is the removal of vegetation along the line. It's clear that the more you get on the road or on the line, the easier the wild will pull in there. There's something about that when it gets open, the wild will normally cloud the area, because there's traffic and traffic on the road and the railway. There are several ways to go here, and I look forward to getting an assessment from the State Road Administration and the Railway Agency of how they view development, not least in relation to the amount of animals. I want to make it clear that I have never suggested that we have a massive killing of game to prevent accidents. I think that's going to be a little dramatic.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1165	‘Again, the focus is that toll financing is the most expensive way of building a road in Norway. Large financial costs and large administrative costs must be covered by the driving lists in addition to the toll contribution itself for the construction of the road project. Critical issues relating to the management and operation of toll companies are again revealed by the supervision of the Road Directorate with the many toll companies in Norway. How will the Council of State ensure that toll companies manage tolls as best they can on behalf of the drivers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1172	Toll financing has a long tradition in Norway, and the form of funding is currently being used in around 45 projects. The operating costs of collection have been around 10-12 pst in recent years. of the toll revenue. It is important that costs are kept as low as possible. The annual follow-up of toll companies by the state road service is part of this work. The road authority is reviewing the standard agreement to be signed by all toll companies before the collection begins. The Toll Agreement provides guidance on what companies should do and what they are not able to do. The template used today was developed 15 years ago. The Swedish Road Authority therefore wants to revise the agreement in the light of the experience gained in following up the company and the Swedish Road Authority’s annex audit of some companies in 2004 and 2005. A new standard appointment will include: be able to hold a set of permanent statutes to which all companies must adhere. It is a clear objective for me that the collection costs should be kept as low as possible, and I believe that the measures taken by the State Road Administration in relation to the toll companies will contribute to this. The Road Directorate believes that the cost of toll collection can be linked to the way toll financing is organised. In the first row, this applies to the toll companies themselves, but also to the users and to the state road service, who are responsible for following up the projects throughout the collection period. The Ministry of Transport has previously warned that the Ministry will assess the organisation of toll companies and possibly return to Stortinget. A matter of this will first be sent to the hearing. In this context, I would like to stress that we must in any case have a system that ensures a local political anchoring attached to the toll project in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1185	Thanks for the answer. It is regrettable that as many as 45 bombers operate. It is true, as the Council of State says, that there is a long tradition of this regrettable financing, but unfortunately there is also a long tradition of pointing out a number of critical aspects. I want to stress that this does not just hit the sitting government, but we turn around and see a four, five, six years back, I think every year we will find a number of critical points relating to how the toll companies operate. These include: on the level of remuneration of the Executive Director, and on the fact that there are more board members in some of these boards than there are in listed Norwegian companies - short and well run, and in some cases also contrary to the agreement that the Council of State in its reply said is 15 years old and obviously mature for revision. When can the matter of this come to Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1192	The state Road Administration has been working on a case in this area that I'm going to get to the Department. Once I have that filed, I will consider whether or not to change the organisation. When it comes to the legislation, I imagine I would be positive about making changes to it, in line with what I said in my main response. Then, on the basis of the audit carried out in 2003 and 2004, there were questions about changing the whole organisation of the toll companies. It's a bigger question that I don't have a position on per. today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1199	I would like to point out that in its report on annual audit and control for the financial year 2006 - that is, the whole state activity - the Riksaudition actually had a separate chapter on tolls based on the accounts for 2006. It refers to 2005, and if I remember correctly, I also think you go further back. A new review shows that there is little improvement, so that there is a need for better and more accurate rules on how to use the car drivers’ money, there is clearly also a need to have sanctions that can stop concrete errors in relation to the legislation, which are, in fact, still being practised by the toll companies. Does the Ministry have measures to stop this, or does it need new sanctions to get toll companies on a better and more accurate course?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1206	In the review I'm going to do, I'll also look at the sanctioning possibilities that are here per person. Today, is good enough. I'm busy making sure that the funds that are made available to them from the Billistan are used to the benefit of the Billistan and are not used for outreach purposes. There's me and the Black Week representative in line. So I'm going to take a close look at this case and consider how we can get a larger part of these funds out for payments, faster payments. There is no objective for this Council of States to have a large board to operate the toll companies. Normally it is a relatively simple task when the toll company has first been brought into operation. There are some jobs to be done during the start-up phase. So it's a work we're going to focus on, and we can have a dialogue about in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1216	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘More than one toll station and several toll stations are now becoming without the possibility of cash payment on passage. The payment giro will be sent completely down to NOK 15 and NOK 20, and the penalty fee will be NOK 350. Why cannot the State maintain a more public-friendly system that uses coins or cards when passing?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1225	I see it as important that the cost of collecting tolls is kept as low as possible. However, the state road network is working in several areas to streamline the collection process, and one of the most important efficiencies in this context is to exploit technological innovation to automate the collection process. By introducing automatic toll stations, including: in Oslo, saves a million dollars both in investments, for equipment, for new pick-up bays and for the operation of the toll stations. These are funds that can instead be used for investment on the road. Of course, it is important that a customer service provider also maintains good customer service when introducing new technologies. For example, drivers passing an automatic toll station without having an agreement and an electronic tag have the right to pay at a nearby service station or to receive an invoice in the mail. If an invoice is received in the mail, a three-week payment period is available. If this time limit is not met, a reminder will be triggered free of charge with a period of three weeks. If it is not now paid, an additional charge of 300 kroner will be charged. If a toll station has a ATM and no money available, the toll may be paid within three days. If this is not done, an additional fee will be applied immediately. In my view, the arrangements in automatic stations are at least as good as in toll stations with manual payment. It is important that the toll stations are operated as efficiently as possible, so that more means can be used for the purpose for which the toll stations are created.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1241	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Of course, I agree that toll stations should be operated as efficiently as possible, but that is not what I asked for. I asked if they could be run more public friendly. On a request to the Mountain Line, which operates the toll stations in Oslo, they say that it is 30 kroner at the first reminder. At the second reminder, it's 350 kroner. Now the Council of State says that there are three weeks' payment deadline at no charge. I assume it's the Council of State that has the right answer, and not the Mountain Line, that drives this collection. I wonder who I'm supposed to trust?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1250	The information I have received is that I have given. It is entirely in accordance with what I have experienced during the bombing in Bergen, where I have received a claim, and where I have also forgotten to pay - and received an extra 300 kroner for it. So I've known in my body that the answer given here is at least present in Bergen. If the mountain line has other rules here, I regret that I have not taken the height of it in my answer. But I guess that's not a big deal. The main reason is that a person is required to have the possibility of a penalty or additional fee if a non-payment is made for the passages. Otherwise I am afraid that very many bills will be kept for a very long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1257	I have no idea what kind of system you have in Bergen. But the ones I asked, to which I addressed myself, was the Mountain Line. They obviously have a completely different practice than in Bergen. Will it be, then, that there are different practices? If a traveler travels around Norway on a holiday trip, will one then have a sea of different payment collection in the mailbox when you get home? If you are away for more than three weeks, you have a fee of 350 kroner. Doesn't the Council of State think this is a little public friendly?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1264	Similar to most other entries, this requirement does not match most of the entries in the current day. There is a time from passing until you get the bill. Normally, there will be at least one month before the payment deadline expires. Before that time, I think most people normally want to come home from the holiday trip. What I'm sorry about is that the information I've given in my main response doesn't seem to be consistent with what the mountain line is doing. I have to be allowed to go back to my people and check out what the reason for that is. That's what I've been referring to here, which is the general rule, so it's obvious that the mountain line probably has a different practice for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1274	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Norwegian Trafiksenter in Hedmark builds a new asphalt track with poor road surface. It will be tracked and worn, and there will be different standards around the track. This is done to ensure that it is as similar as the road users experience when they are in traffic. What does this Council of State tell you about the Norwegian road standard?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1283	Public roads have a total length of more than 90,000 km and connect the country from north to south and from coast to high mountain. The state is responsible for some 27 000 km of highways. The county road network is about the same size and is owned by the state, and the remaining public roads are owned by around 430 municipalities in the country. There are thus different standards on roads, and there are different governance powers that are involved in providing guidance on how the public roads are kept by the same. In recent years there has been a strong increase in traffic density, while roads have not been well maintained for many years. I understand that the road users found the standard to be lower. This impression is also consistent with the measurements carried out by the State Road Service, which shows a negative development in the state of the road surface. This government has therefore found it necessary to strengthen operations and maintain significantly beyond what is foreseen in the current national transport plan. We strongly invest in the laying of new asphalt cover and otherwise have prioritised operational, maintenance and development measures that provide safer traffic, better traffic flow, reduce distance costs and improve transport provision for people and businesses in the districts. This is a priority we want to pursue, among other things. in the work of the National Transport Plan 2010-2019. Even if more is done to ensure good road maintenance and a more uniform standard within the different road categories, road users must be offered a different choice. because the requirements for the individual road will depend partly on the volume of traffic. I found it positive that Norsk Trafiksenter in Hedmark is building a new asphalt track with different standards on the road deck. Occurrence analyses from 2006 showed that in 75 pst. Of these, missing drivers were one of the reasons. It is therefore important that we, as drivers, teach us how to deal with different leads and different road standards in order to be best equipped for the responsibility we assume when we set out on the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1294	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is nice that the Council of State boasts Norwegian Trafiksenter in Hedmark, which they absolutely deserve. There's a lot of positive happening there. But it's very worrying that you make a new asphalt track with lots of holes and tracks and uneven standards, and that you do it to reflect what road standards are like in Norway. It is good that the government wants to spend more money, and I hope the government will spend more money in the future. But that's not enough. The Minister of Transport needs to get more money into transport, because not only bad drivers are involved in accidents - the Council of State mentioned 75 pst. - That's a lot of other things. It is clear that there is also a social economy in this. Traffic is coming, it's going to last, and people are going to be safe. Many of these things can't be measured in money. Of course, the Council of State will fight what she can to make more money for the transport budget, so we don't have to make any holes in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1306	I can guarantee the representative, Bredvold, that I will do what I can to ensure a larger framework for road and transport. It's my job as Minister of Transport to do it. I'm lucky that I'm Minister of Transport in a government where I don't have to stand alone to love this; we actually have a government that wants to bet on traffic, and that has also shown it in practical action by increasing the budget. We have also increased the budget for maintenance beyond what is in the national transport plan, precisely because we see that maintenance was underestimated in the existing national transport plan. The previous government didn't take the height of the traffic growth we've had, so it didn't have enough resources to maintain it. This government has done something about it. This is, of course, about several means of maintenance, but it is also about enabling drivers to deal with different road standards, because it will take time for the entire Norwegian road network to be up to a standard where we have quite smooth roads everywhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1315	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer, and my supplementary question goes on with this. It is good that the Government is united. But transport policy is not just aircraft, it's not just trains, it's not just boat, because in this case it's about road. This is where I want the government to stand stronger. In my county, Hedmark, the way is the most important thing we have to transport ourselves and transport our goods - that is, when we're going from A to B in general. That is why I say that transportation is not just a train or a plane or a boat. In this case, it's the most important way, it's the most important way for Hedmark to survive. It is good district policy in good road traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1322	I am also fully in agreement with Mr Bredvold. There is no doubt that no matter what other transport modes you use, the road will be important. If we send goods on trains, the road will be there at both ends of the distribution. When it comes to passenger transport, of course, it varies where a cage is in relation to the railway, but often one will also have to use the road - at one end or at both ends. The same applies when you are going to an aerodrome or to a boat. The road is the blood vessel system in the Norwegian transport system. The road stands for almost 95 pst. of the carriage of passengers. Railways are unlikely to be important, not least in the most densely populated parts of the country, like here in the Oslo area, around the big cities and between the big cities, especially when it comes to goods. For this reason, the Government has a differentiated transport policy in which we invest on trains, on public transport in and between the big cities, and we are betting on roads where there is no collective alternative, i.e. in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1332	This question, from the representative Svein Flätten to the Minister for Transport, has been transferred to the Minister of Justice who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1335	My question, which, after a little guidance, goes to the Minister of Justice, is as follows: ‘According to an EU-US agreement, US aviation authorities may require comprehensive information on passengers entering US airspace. Norway is not a party to the agreement and therefore consent from the passenger or the Data Protection Authority is required to provide such information. However, the airline Continental provides passenger information about Norwegian passengers to the US authorities. What is the basis on which this information is provided?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1344	According to Section 29 of the Personal Data Act, personal data can only be transferred to countries that ensure the proper processing of the data. In assessing whether the treatment is being properly secured, it must, inter alia,: be made aware of the nature of the data, the purpose and duration of the processing envisaged, as well as the legal, business and security rules applicable in the country concerned, as set out. Section 29, second paragraph - if you really have to go by law. Under the first paragraph of Section 30 of the Data Protection Act, personal data may also be transferred to countries which do not ensure the proper processing of data, if one of the specific conditions of the provision is met - alternative conditions in the letters (a) to (h), e.g. the existence of a valid consent under point (a) of the first paragraph of Section 30. Another option is that the transfer is carried out as part of the fulfilment of a contract of international law, cf. point (b) According to the second paragraph of Section 30, the Data Protection Authority may authorise the transmission even if the conditions set out in the first subparagraph are not met if the controller provides sufficient guarantees for the protection of the data subject's rights. The data supervision may also lay down the conditions for such a transmission. It is the controller, here the carrier, who is responsible for ensuring that the conditions of the law are met before data are transmitted. Furthermore, the legal system is such that it is up to the Data Protection Authority to supervise the correct understanding of the legislation by air carriers and that transmission is in line with the legislation. According to Section 46 of the Data Protection Act, the Data Protection Authority has the power to order the cessation of transmission in breach of the law and to impose conditions that must be fulfilled in order for the processing to comply with the law, as stated. I am aware that there has been a dialogue between the Swedish Data Protection Agency and Continental on today's practices in transferring passenger information to the US authorities, and that as part of the dialogue, among others. discussed the possibility of basing the transfer on the consent of the individual. Given that the Data Protection Authority is professionally independent of the Department, I cannot go into the assessment of the specific issue of Continental supervision. As the representative Fleet mentions in his question - and I have to say that I think it is commendable that we raise such fundamental data protection issues in the Stortinget - Norway is not a party to the agreement that the EU has now concluded with the United States. However, I can inform you that we from Norway have contacted the US authorities in order to establish a similar agreement. If such an agreement is put in place, it will provide a legal basis for Continental to transmit passenger information, in so far as it would also include the protection mechanisms and restrictions that would come into such an agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1355	I would like to thank you for your answer, which is an interesting answer. I have also realized that the Data Protection Authority has been very negative about this. I understand that they have a dialogue. I think it's important, and I look forward to Norway trying on its own to reach an agreement with the Americans on this. But what worries me a little is the underlying legal text, which the Minister of Justice has initially referred to in his reply. I want to believe that as an ordinary air passenger and not as a lawyer, as the Minister of Justice is, I will feel quite helpless trying to see what is the basis of the law. Is the Data Protection Authority correct, but can anything be done to strengthen the individual's protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1364	I will not rule out here that something can be done legally to strengthen people's protection in this area, but also in other matters of a privacy nature. That is the background for us, among other things. Over time, extensive back-testing of personal data legislation has been carried out, and we will come to Stortinget with changes in relation to this. As far as passenger information is concerned, I have to say that the most important thing we have now been able to do is that the government has actually taken the initiative against the US authorities - which I understand the questioner also supports - in order to get an agreement, and to get greater clarity not only for us and for passengers, but also for those who intend to provide information.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1371	Then my next question, which is also most interesting for the passengers: how is the momentum in contact with the Americans? And, if the Minister of Justice can say anything about it, what is the starting point for the Norwegian enquiry? What are you trying to achieve? What level will you try to put on in these conversations? And how fast can we count on seeing a result of that?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1376	There are negotiations in progress, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is in charge of these negotiations by the Norwegian side. Direct contact has been made, and I also understand that two negotiating meetings have been held, but that no agreement has yet been reached. With regard to this type of negotiation, it is difficult to say when the solution comes, because it depends on the views of two countries. However, we believe that it is important to get such an agreement in place as soon as possible, so that we prevent the uncertainty that may apply, both for passengers and for others. I think just getting clear rules/conditions will be important measures to ensure people's privacy. Our starting point and our goal in the negotiations are to be careful to announce publicly. It's negotiations. But it is clear that the lines drawn up through the agreement that, among other things, The EU has, will be able to give us good leadership in such negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1383	Question 13 will be answered in response to question 23.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1389	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: «On Saturday 1 March 2008, we were able to read again in Stavanger Aftenblad about the consequences of the increased violence in Stavanger for innocent people. The departmental conference at Stavanger University Hospital reports strong growth in damage to the jaw and cheekbone caused by severe violence in the city. Major damage to violence has gone up 55 percent in one year, and one can no longer just blame for the times of the gift when the violence in Stavanger is to be explained. What will the Council of State do to stop the increasing violence?"
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1398	Let me first say that I am very happy to have this question, and in particular from a representative of the Progress Party, who is committed to fighting back crime. One of the most important things we can do with this type of crime is address drug policy. Perhaps one of the most important things for the Government will be to create a wider majority for the type of action that can prevent such violence from happening. I sincerely hope that the Progress Party will change its policy of preventing crime. Here we are in the key area of bringing down crime in the big cities, if the Progress Party is willing to - in the cities where they themselves sit and rule, and also here in the Grand Duchy where one has the opportunity to form a broad political majority - to pursue a different type of drug policy than they traditionally have. I ask the Progress Party to be in that way involved in the fight, and follow up what the police in Stavanger have said about, among other things. the importance of Russian policy for the crime of violence in cities. Now we're not going to stare blindly at these kind of numbers and overdramatize the situation either. I have been informed that serious violence damage, i.e.. body damage, in Stavanger and this district has increased from 38 to 58. It's an increase of 52 pst. But luckily, the numbers are at the level they are, sailing for one violent incident is one too much. That's why I believe that the most important task for the Police and National Assembly is now to ensure security by preventing and combating such crime. Particularly important challenges in this context include: the fight against crime of violence. It represents, in a broad sense, an attack on both well-being and on the public’s perception of security. I agree with the representative when she claims that not only can you blame for the time spent on giving birth, but the relationship between the use of drugs and violence is well documented, and a good part of the violence episodes happen in relation to outdoors. You're operating on that 60-70 pst. of these violent episodes occur in alcohol intoxication and in connection with gift shops. It's obvious that the more opportunities we get, the longer the opening hours will be, the greater the consumption and the greater the damage. It's absolutely crucial for us, if we're to stop such a development, that we have this in focus. In addition to the effort that the government has now had at the local police force by training more and more policemen, we want to get more policemen out to just fill the streets when it's hectic. It is absolutely vital that we do this. That's why I'm very happy that over the last two years, we've had such a high admission to the high school of police that we've had. I would also like to point out that the measures that are now being taken in the municipalities by setting up police councils, where police and politicians sit together to solve these kinds of challenges, I believe that are particularly important measures to prevent this violent crime. We see that there are cities and towns in Norway where there has been very good experience in strengthening the police, but at the same time there is active prevention. Kristiansund is such an example, where action has been taken to address, among other things. the sale of food at night and where immediate effects on violent crime have been observed. I'm glad the asker asks about this, and I hope the Progress Party will support us here.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1411	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. As expected, there was an answer only about the timing and local responsibility, and a disclaimer from the Council of State. The real facts of this case are that in recent years Stavanger has been given stricter rules of conjecture, but still had an increase in violence. The neighboring municipality of Sandnes has had a much more liberal gin policy, but has had less violence. Then I would like to point out that the Council's own party colleagues in Gjesdal, who are neighbouring municipalities to Stavanger, two days ago decided to extend the grant periods, to have it much more liberally than Stavanger has. The claim that there is a free movement in Stavanger is a myth. We could read in Stavanger AFTENblad a few weeks ago that the sale at the patios has actually gone down. It turns out that people drink more at home, and they come out into town much later. Therefore, the sale has gone down. We have now had a majority government for two years, and my question to the Council of State is: What has the Council of State actually done to reduce alcohol consumption?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1426	We're not just pointing at the tipping times. And we're not running out of responsibility, as the questioner claims. My answer was just angled towards, among other things. Police have now been strengthened, choosing to spend more money in the police districts than in the past. It has been chosen to have a high record at the Police College to train more policemen. The situation in Norway is that we have too few graduates. If we're going to be able to mannulate our cities, we're totally dependent on educating more people. The Police Council has been initiated by the Government and the Ministry of Justice, and is a decisively important measure to prevent this. It is not right that we run from this responsibility. We take it very seriously. This does not mean that all other actors are relieved of responsibility. Suffering if you do not stand in Stavanger in a situation where there is a free flow, as the questioner says - I do not believe that there is a free flow in Stavanger - there is a demonstrable clear link between the drug consumption we have in the night, and the perpetrated violence. It must also be taken over by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1431	I thank you again for the answer. I'm not going to let this become a gift debate, but rather take the main question, about the gross violence. The council itself says that he has given more money to the police. What's happening today is that Rogaland's police district is missing $25 million. kr. According to calculations, Rogaland should have 7.3 pst. of the pot the Storting grants, but they only get 6,8 pst. This means that they are about missing. Twenty-five million. Just in Rogaland police district. This is money that could give more visibility to the police, because there are more resources. We know that the prerequisite for success in fighting crime is the presence of the police. Then my last question becomes to the Council of State: Does the Minister of Justice agree that a more visible police force is preventive? And what will he do to get Stavanger and Rogaland police districts the money they lack?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1440	Yes, I agree that a visible police force is preventive. That is why we believe that we need more policemen throughout Norway. I'm the Minister of Justice for all of Norway, not just Stavanger and Rogaland. The government's strategy is to increase the admission to the Police College. The low recording we had during the previous government has contributed to the fact that we are not able to fill vacancies today. So our main challenge is actually not that the districts lack money, but that you lack people. We see that when the police districts settle their accounts, more people are left with money. So here I think we have to turn focus, too. In fact, to get more policemen out in the streets, we need more policemen. Then we have to educate more, and we have to take the grip that the government is now about to do: look at how we can replace policemen with civilians, that civilians take tasks that civilians can do, so that policemen get out. The third thing we're working on is the question of getting seniors to stand longer in the position.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1450	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘A NOW on combating crime and privacy was handed over to the Ministry of Justice in 2003. Five years have passed without the law on police records being promoted. Police records contain some of the most sensitive information registered in the country, and the Data Protection Authority is currently unable to monitor the flow of information. When will the Stortinge receive permission to handle police records?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1459	I'm referring to the Government of St.prp. No 1 on page 35, second column, has explained that a legislative proposal will be promoted in spring 2009. The reason for this is that work on new police records law has been delayed because negotiations on the framework decision on third-pillar privacy - privacy in European police cooperation - took place for more than two years. In addition to this, I would like to mention that the current legislation allows the Data Protection Authority to supervise all police records, and this will continue in the new law.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1466	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, but I note that this law has taken a very long time, and for too long it has given the great need to get person-sensitive information into the police into a more secure administration regime and with the possibility of external control of the data flow. I hear that the Council of States is now referring to what is happening in the European Union. However, I have understood that it is more appropriate that Norway has chosen to wait for what is happening in the EU, and that we could have actually taken some own initiative and made sure to put the Norwegian law in place earlier. There was a fear of duplication of work, which has meant that the entire police record law has been even more exposed. But is not the Council of State concerned that the department he manages, which is responsible for the whole of data protection legislation, is the department that now appears to be the largest sink in the class, and the fact that the public does not make sure to go ahead in such an important area as this?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1473	I agree with Mr Aspaker's focus on the fact that this is a particularly important work. I do not agree that this is a matter that is being trained by the Government, rather on the contrary. It is absolutely essential for us that we, among other things, have to see and read what the EU is doing about this, in particular against the developments we want for police cooperation, which has also given broad support to the Right, within the framework of Prüm cooperation. Therefore, I believe that it is a very appropriate legislative process that is now in progress. It's advanced, and it's complicated. That's it. So I would also say that there is no legitimate room in this area now. We have rules on how to manage important information. Nor is it true that the questioner says that the Data Protection Authority does not currently have the possibility to monitor the flow of information. It's up to the Data Protection Authority. As I also understand it, the Data Protection Authority is fully aware of that. So we have today a situation where you can actually also exercise effective supervision.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1480	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but there is clearly a fundamental disagreement going out here between the Council of State, which is responsible for this area and this legislation, and the Data Protection Agency, with the access that they themselves believe they have to control the information and the data that the police currently have. So then my question is to the Council of State: Will he take a quick initiative with the Data Protection Authority, so that we can clarify the misunderstandings that may exist, and so that until we get the police records law in place, we can have a supervision in this area that the Data Protection Authority can also be satisfied with?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1485	I am a little uncertain about who brings misunderstandings into this matter. The data protection system, as we have seen them, is fully aware of the competence of the supervisory authorities. It has also meant that the Data Protection Agency has even notified the Police Directorate that it will carry out supervision in particular. police administration records. This is not a matter of doubt to the Data Protection Authority. I think that in such a case, the questioner must take a round with his housekeepers about where this claim comes from. I had a meeting with the Data Protection Agency before Christmas, and I did not realize that there was a conflict around the question of whether you had supervisory competence. The question raised by the Data Protection Authority is whether the Data Protection Authority should have regulatory competence in relation to the supervision exercised. This is an extensive discussion in which, among other things: must consider who is to govern and be able to impose such important records and whether to have the Data Protection Authority over the authority of the Advocate General. But we will clarify that in the context of the Police Register Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1495	This question, from the representative ine Marie Eriksen Soreide to the Minister of Justice, is raised by the representative Jan Tore Sanner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1498	On behalf of the representative Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide, I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘Everything facilitates the collection of periodic penalty payments by the central government on behalf of the Data Protection Authority. It will allow penalties to be imposed following decisions taken by the Data Protection Authority. What is the reason why this has not been followed up, and when can it be expected that such collection can be carried out?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1507	Today, the Data Protection Authority is governed by Section 47 of the Data Protection Act to impose periodic penalty payments where the controller does not comply with an order to terminate or change the processing of personal data that occurs. The Personal Information Act does not provide specific rules on the recovery of claims due, as the applicant also states. If the periodic penalty payment is not paid within the time limit, the claim must be recovered in accordance with the general rules laid down in the Enforcement Act. This implies that the Data Protection Authority as the plaintiff must promote an application for enforcement for the offender, Section 5-2 of the Enforcement Act. The Ministry of Data Protection has previously pointed out that today’s rules make the periodic penalty payment a less effective instrument than was foreseen at the time of the adoption of the Data Protection Act. On this basis, the Ministry of Justice, at its hearing in spring 2005, sent a proposal that the central body of the State should assume responsibility for the collection of periodic penalty payments imposed by Section 47 of the Data Protection Act. There are several examples that the collection centre is required to collect claims for periodic penalty payments, for example: Section 14d of the Lottery Act and Section 8-4 of the Accounting Act. The Ministry proposed in the letter of consultation that a similar provision should be included in the Data Protection Act. The Ministry said in the letter of consultation that there could be no decisive objection to assigning the task to the central government collection centre. The hearing revealed that most hearing bodies were in favour of the proposal to transfer responsibility for the collection of periodic penalty payments to the central government collection centre. On this basis, I agree with the representative of Eriksen Soreide that everything is in place to enable the central government collection centre to collect a periodic penalty payment on behalf of the Data Protection Authority. I also agree that such a system can help to streamline the enforcement of the law by the Data Protection Authority. My ministry is also preparing a proposal with a number of amendments to the Data Protection Act, all of which are designed to ensure even better privacy for individuals. The proposal to transfer responsibility for the collection of periodic penalty payments to the central government collection centre will be included in this proposition. I propose that the proposition be submitted to the Storting before the summer, and that a change in the law, if it is adopted, should come into force as soon as possible after the Storting has dealt with the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1516	I thank you for the answer to the question and am happy that the Council of State gives a positive answer. It is quite right, as the Council of State points out, that imposing a periodic penalty payment may lead to a long process and may contribute to the continuation of illegal behaviour by less serious actors. So I'm glad that the Council of State is now going to make a proposal for the Storting and that it can be implemented quickly. However, let me conclude by pointing out that almost three years have passed since this was sent out to the hearing, as the letter of consultation expired in 2005. I would like to point out that this has taken a very long time, and I would like to ask the Council of State to make sure that the process is now as rapid as possible, so that we can get a proper system on this, and that the Central Authority of the State can have the right of collection.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1521	I will do that, because we have a complete review of the data protection law, a back-up check, where you have had an investigation of many important questions. There are also other areas of the Data Protection Act where there is reason to propose changes. The relationship that the representative is dealing with is inviting you to a simpler process. It can go faster, it can be cheaper just to run it that way, but the most important thing is that we give the Data Protection Agency and to the extent that the authorities have an opportunity to put power behind the requirements to a much greater extent. A seine periodic penalty payment, a heavy periodic penalty payment that comes later, does not work in the same way as the representative was in. That's the background for us choosing to do it so that we now make a proposition before the very main thing comes about the Data Protection Act, so that we among other things. may endorse this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1526	There is no need for follow-up questions. I note that it is now being presented, and I am pleased that the Council of State will follow up as the questioner asks.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1535	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Health services treat very sensitive and comprehensive information on individuals. There have been several unfortunate events that show that data protection is not well-managed in healthcare. The Data Protection Authority has recommended the establishment of a Data Protection Ombudsman by healthcare companies. It's per. currently only one RHF with such an agent. Will the Council of State ensure that all regional health establishments establish a Data Protection Ombudsman?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1544	Health enterprises are currently treating large amounts of highly sensitive health information, as the representative Sjøli points out. Health professionals often face situations where they are unsure about how to handle the information. There may be questions from a patient about access to the file, or there may be a request from a healthcare professional for patient information to be provided to another establishment. It may also concern questions from doctors and other health professionals who are planning to start a research project, for example. For me, as Minister of Health and Care, it is essential that patient information is handled properly according to the law, and that the population is confident that patient information does not go astray. In order to ensure this, health establishments have a legal obligation to ensure the soundness of the records and information systems of the institutions. I am referring to the fact that on 12 December last year, the Ministry presented proposals for changes to the Health Personnel Act and the Health Register Act to introduce a clear legal prohibition on acquiring patient information subject to confidentiality without having a separate legal or regulatory basis. An important purpose of the prohibition is to strengthen the confidentiality of information and to promote privacy. The legislative proposal is known for its consideration in the Health and Welfare Committee. The representative, Sonja Irene Sjøli, indicates that today there is only one RHF offering privacy representatives. I assume that the representative is dedicated to the Competence Centre for Privacy, which is established as a service offer for researchers in Health South-East RHF. The Centre is based on Ullevål University Hospital and offers several different services to healthcare companies in the region. Once a separate agreement has been established with the Centre and it has been formalised in relation to the Data Protection Authority, each healthcare provider may use the Centre of Competence as its data protection agent for research. The data protection system makes work on privacy more effective and frees up a lot of time for researchers. The fact that there is only one regional health undertaking that has established its own data protection officer for research does not mean that the other health establishments are without a data protection officer. Most healthcare companies in Health Vest RHF, Health Mid-Norway RHF and Health Nord RHF have Norwegian social-scientific data service as their data protection agent for research. It implies that research projects carried out by employees and students of these health care establishments are to be notified to the Data Protection Officer of the NSD. Some people believe that having an internal data protection agent instead of an external data protection agent can promote privacy better. An internal data protection officer may have tasks related to the management of patient information beyond research and may more easily see data protection in the context of the safety and quality assurance procedures of patient information in general in the establishment. As I said at the outset, healthcare companies have a legal obligation to ensure that they handle patient information properly and under law. I believe that health care businesses need to assess whether they want to establish their own internal privacy protection system in order to ensure the proper processing of patient information, or whether they will do so by other means. In my opinion, it is important that we now first and foremost strengthen the use of the privacy laws that are already in place for research, that is. underpins the use of the Data Protection Competence Centre in Health South-East RHF and Norwegian Social Data Service as Data Protection Officers and reinforces the training and awareness of the Code, including: the Health Register Act and the Data Protection Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1561	I thank you for your answer. I am sure the Council of State is concerned about this with privacy. I aimed enough at the regional health company Health Nord when I talked about the creation of a data protection agent. Such a system is important, and the Data Protection Authority has also proposed it. I am sure that it will strengthen privacy, and it will also strengthen confidence in health care. It is particularly important for specialist health services because they deal with a large amount of sensitive information about individuals. As the Council of State had in mind, the Government has proposed new legislative proposals, but this will also involve an increased risk of privacy violations, such as a new national health register and the proposal for new research law. But when the Council of State will not oblige health businesses to set up a data protection officer, what other concrete measures will it take to ensure more secure protection of privacy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1568	Let me first repeat that I fully agree with what I am experiencing is the intention of the representative Sjöli's question, namely that we should have as safe and good procedures as possible in relation to what is important to be protected in terms of personal data in the healthcare system, because people have to be absolutely sure that it is handled in a very safe and sound manner. There is also a background to the proposals made by the Government to amend the legislation, which is currently under discussion in the Grand Duchy, which will make it quite clear from the law that it will, for example, take place. is prohibited from snoring patient information in which one shall not snort. I disagree with the representative Sjøli that the changes to other records we have made in the past would lead to increased risks to privacy. When we promote such an explicit proposal for a ban on snooping, it is because we know that despite the fact that it is really the same today, there are examples that it is not always followed. We're going to use the law, and we're going to believe that health companies are going to find sensible solutions around the regions to follow it up in each place.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1575	As far as the research law is concerned, there is enough disagreement as to whether it will not lead to an increased risk of privacy violations. In this context, we want a stricter law, and we want to strengthen privacy in order to increase confidence in health care and to make individuals feel confident that knowledge of their health does not go astray. The data protection authority is quite clear in its recommendation, almost the requirement, to have such a data protection officer. What does the Council of State think of it, when such a central actor as the Data Protection Authority recommends it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1580	Firstly, to the new law that the Stortinget has just adopted - I know that the Right had slightly different views in that context: I believe that it is a strengthening of the offer to patients because we can thus follow the patient course in more diseases than for example. cancer, where it has been shown that the Cancer Register is involved in providing us with knowledge that can provide better treatment and better medicine. That's what we think in other areas too, for other important, serious diseases. There are so many locks in the code that I completely disagree with the claim that it would mean a violation of privacy. That is now the debate. When it comes to the question of privacy representatives, I think it can be a very good solution. What they're doing in Health South-East is a very good solution, and the way they've done it in the other health regions, through Norwegian social-scientific data service, I also think is a good solution in terms of such privacy representatives. But I think it has to be open in order to be able to evaluate the best solution in each region, and everyone has some kind of representative today, and I think that's very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1590	I would like to ask the Minister of Health: ‘In the last few weeks there have been reports from the professional communities of the Rikshospitalet on budgetary concerns and that these will affect patient treatment. Among other things, it is suggested that good enough treatment is not satisfactory, but that the best possible treatment is to be given. It appears that several doctors consider going away from the AFP or going to private health care institutions if the quality of the services is impaired. What is the State Council’s assessment of the level of quality?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1599	Recently, the Stortinget, known as a hospital budget for the current year, adopted about DKK 85 billion. That's $35 billion more than we spent in 2002. Within these resource frameworks, regional health enterprises which are known to be responsible for providing the population with the health care they require under legal provisions and other authority directives. In the mission paper of regional health companies, I stress that the objective must be a good quality health service for everyone throughout the country. I have included several management variables, key figures, which I use to follow up on the work, both in terms of activity, quality and priority. However, a prerequisite for a good quality healthcare service is that individual hospitals have culture and systems for learning, improvement and quality development. I understand that some hospitals face major challenges related to the budgetary situation and the changes that need to be implemented. However, I do not see any reason why the quality of the service is going to be affected. Health services shall be of good quality, shall be safe and safe, and users shall be involved and influence where possible. I trust that regional health businesses and hospitals have systems to ensure that those in need of health care get the help they need and that that help is of good quality. The Rikshospitalet is an important hospital characterised by high quality treatment and research. The hospital has been a precursor hospital to focus treatment results and has, among other things, as the first hospital in the country posted on the Internet a number of quality indicators showing activities and results in a number of hospital disciplines. These indicators provide the Rikshospitalet with a unique opportunity to monitor quality developments in its own activities. The representative, Mr Bavøy, expresses concern that the quality of the Rikshospitalet will be impaired as a result of the changes they now have to make in their budgets. I have received from Health South-East an opinion from the Rikshospitalet where they underline: ‘The hospital will not conform to the medical quality of patient treatment and will ensure the competence necessary for the provision of its highly specialised medical services at regional and national level. In addition, the hospital will place great emphasis on maintaining the clinical and scientific competence built up over many decades and necessary to further develop the hospital as a leading national and international medical centre.» I therefore have full confidence that both Health South-East and the Rikshospitalet will ensure high-quality patient treatment despite the forthcoming conversion processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1619	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It's not that long since there was a look-up in the Medisin today that said that worried doctors won't give you half good treatment. This is also part of the background for my question. Clearly, the professional community would like to do the very best and the very latest, and those of us who become patients in Norway today will often demand the very best. Then we hear that more and more health professionals, who often have to make some difficult decisions on priorities, are calling for stronger political priorities. My question to the Council of State is whether she agrees with this, that the political environment, the authorities and the Minister of Health themselves may need to go in and give more priority to remedying the difficult situations facing the staff, and in particular the doctors, often come up with.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1628	Firstly, I fully agree with Mr Davøy that this is a very important ambition. I also believe that large parts of our healthcare system can show good quality. Obviously, not everything is perfect, but that's what we have to go for. That's why the laps we're going to reorganize to make it even better, really important. So to the question of priority. I believe that we, as politicians, have given priority in several ways. Firstly, I have been following the signals of the Storting, I have given my guidance signals through mission documents and business meetings, as the representative knows, and we also have a priority regulation that all hospitals and all health professionals should follow. But I see enough that there may be things about the one that can be clarified even more, and that is what we are now doing. In addition, we are now working on national action programmes to achieve the most equivalent treatment of good quality across the country. Among other things, we have started with the cancer area now recently, and we're going to move on in other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1637	I also thank you for that answer. The fact that the Council of State has reduced this National Council for Quality and Priorities probably means that we should go a little closer and look at both this with quality and priority - perhaps overall. The question is how the Council of State, if one has to look at parts of this, was the background to the reduction - as the Council of State also suggests - that this work can possibly be politicised, i.e. this by perhaps anchoring new and other priorities, if one comes to that position, in the political system. How will this work be followed up, and what is the progress and time aspect here?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1644	Yes, it is quite right that one of the reasons I put down the new National Council for Quality and Priorities was that I saw that there was a need for us to give even clearer signals, both in terms of quality and priority. That's why this is a very important advisory body for me and the Government. They will decide on both general and individual matters. In this month they will, for example, decide whether to recommend the introduction of the new vaccine against cervical cancer, to give an example. Then it has to be assessed against other good things that are also going on. That's how they're going to work. Is there anything in the work that this Council advises on, for example: If you were to land on that I would recommend that vaccine, it's a matter of time that I'm going to the Stortinget with it. It is the Storting that in that case must adopt it, if that is what we were to land on. I would certainly make sure that the things I recommend we go further have political anchoring, but it's very important that we manage to keep high-specialised offers of the best quality, and that we reorganize further to make sure that the quality gets even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1654	This question, from the representative Bent Höie to the Minister for Renewal and Administration, will be answered by the Minister for Health and Care on behalf of the Minister for Renewal and Administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1657	‘Does the Ministry of Renewal and Administration have the competence to draw up a new personal register law and will a transfer to the FAD ensure that the law is processed more quickly in the Stortinget?’ [[FAD]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1662	The Judicial Committee, at the time of the adoption of the Data Protection Act, concluded that a back-testing should be carried out after the law had been in place for about four years. The result of the post-control and any proposed changes or adjustments to the legislation were provided to the Grand total in an appropriate manner. It is the Minister of Justice who is responsible for the Law on Personal Information and, therefore, for the post-control. The Minister of Renewal is responsible for the personal information regulations. The government has no plans to change this distribution. Data protection is subject to pressure, not least as a result of technological developments. In order to meet the challenges in the areas for which the Minister of Renewal and Administration is responsible, the Ministry of Renewal has, in due course, significantly strengthened its data protection competence. Among other things, the Department prepares timely regulations to regulate the transparency of workers’ e-mails. I have been informed by the Ministry of Justice that the post-control work is well under way. As part of the post-control check, a proposition such as: authorises the central body of the State to take over the collection of periodic penalty payments imposed by the Data Protection Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1671	We have heard the Minister of Justice earlier today confirm that the new data protection law will come to Stortinget before the summer. One of the areas of major privacy challenges is health and care. The Minister of Health and Welfare has also made proposals to restrict access to health information, for example: who shall have access to hospital records. Will the Minister of Health also introduce rules to ensure that the patient has access to the read log of who has been in and looked at the patient record? I think that such a monitoring of the tits might have limited the desire of some health care workers to, for example. to check the neighbour’s medical records.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1676	It is quite right, as the representative Höie says, that this is a challenge not least in the area of health. It is also quite right that the government has recently made proposals to amend the law, so that there will be an absolute ban on entering and snooping in journals to which health professionals should not have access. That's because we need to make even more sure that people have to be sure that only those who need to have insight into sensitive patient information actually get it. So I hope the Storting joins it. So the question of the possibilities to see the log. We have not taken any final position on this, but the system is today so that one can go in and see who has been in and checked. I believe that as far as possible should be transparent, and then I take with me the recordings of the representative Höie - also in cooperation with the Minister of Renewal and Administration - just as much as possible about whether this is the case, should have the opportunity to go in and check out who knows it. No decision has been taken by the Government at this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1683	That's all, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1688	That's all.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1694	This question is also answered by the Minister of Health and Welfare on behalf of the Minister of Renewal and Administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1697	I will then be asked the following questions: ‘Does the Council intend to initiate the appointment of data protection officers in state establishments and when will the Ministry of Renewal and Administration have its own data protection officer?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1704	The system of data protection officers provides for exemptions from the obligation to notify data processing to the Data Protection Authority. All other obligations of the Data Protection Act with regulations apply in the same way to data protection establishments as to unincorporated establishments. Data subjects are not granted other rights by the controller to establish the data protection officer. The point of setting up data protection officers must be that the business must have a continuous focus on the protection of data subjects' privacy. In establishments where the processing of personal data is extensive or a central part of the establishment, it is often designated as their task to ensure that the relevant legislation, including the data protection law, is effectively complied with. These persons are not necessarily called data protection agents, but in many cases have potentially similar tasks to those of an agent. These often have extensive contact with the Data Protection Authority and good knowledge of the applicable legislation. I assume that state enterprises properly protect the privacy of those who are registered with the enterprises. However, I have - i.e. The Minister of Renewal and Administration has not considered it natural to oblige any undertaking to set up data protection agents. They are assumed to be able to assess whether they have been earned to join the scheme and whether the establishment of an agent would result in better data protection for data subjects. The Ministry of Renewal and Administration processes personal data in the Ministry's system of records and archives by providing personal data in incoming and outgoing correspondence. In addition, the Ministry handles personal data on the staff of the Department through the pay and staff systems. The Ministry shall process personal data in a safe and good manner in accordance with the requirements of the law. The Ministry of Renewal and Administration continuously assesses whether the Ministry of Data Protection will improve data protection for data subjects, but does not currently have concrete plans for the creation of agents.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1713	Then I thank the Council of State for the answer and realize that the intentions are good, but that there are no new measures in sight. Now the Minister of Health and Health is standing here, so it's natural to look at that sector. Then I want to focus on the flow of information. And then I think especially about patients' medical records, which are treated and transmitted from institution to institution in very different ways. We know that from several media queries. We also know that the flow of information is of very different quality. How will the Council of State ensure that Hospital-Norway receives a flow of information and treatment of patient records that protect privacy and are for the benefit of users?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1722	The government is very concerned that patient records should be treated with the utmost care, and that only those who need access to them - said for the sake of treatment - should have it, and not others than them. We are therefore very concerned with the patient records that lie both in medical offices and at our hospitals, and we recently, as the representative knows, have made a bill to say even clearer from the law that snooping in it should not be snooping in patient records. For example, in the case of the flow of information: between hospitals and doctors’ offices, or between hospitals, it varies. It is quite right that the representative points out. What the government intends to do with it and what we're doing is to see if we can use more of the data that we have available via the Internet, etc., but not the Internet in that sense. We are now working on getting Norsk Healthnet to stand up, so that we get our own network of very secure systems that can be used for patient information. We believe that this will be a much better solution than the fact that the information is going around in cars, as it is actually done in some hospitals today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1729	Then my natural follow-up question really becomes that information: what is the time aspect here to fix this?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1734	I can unfortunately not give any final date for it, but what I can say very clearly is that we are working very actively on this. I believe that putting Norsk Healthnet in place, a system that works in a much safer and better way than what we have today, is also crucial to improving the quality of patient care that we can offer our patients. How quickly we manage to get this fully up and running, trades, among other things. on: How fast does everyone connect? There's nothing we can just decide that they do, but we're trying to stimulate it differently. It's also about coordinating the computer systems, so that, unfortunately, we don't have too many different computer systems today. So we have to get everything into one net. I can assure the representative that we are working very actively on this. I'm very impatient to get this in place, and we're spending a lot of resources on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1744	This question, from the representative Anne Margrethe Larsen to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Inclusion who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1747	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Employment and Inclusion the following questions: ‘In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government says it will have a special focus on the rights and the life situation of minor asylum seekers. In the last few days, the search for a single asylum seeker in an overcrowded Hvalstad asylum reception in Asker has upset many. At the same time, the vacant, approved places for lone minor asylum seekers include: at the Cocoon Resource Centre, where qualified personnel can provide assistance to children with special follow-up needs for child protection services. Is the Government willing to use approved institutions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1756	Initially, I would like to refer to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality's answer of 19 December 2007 to questions from the representative Larsen concerning the Cocoon Resource Centre and the operation of places for potential victims of trafficking in human beings. The representative was briefed that all State enterprises are required to comply with the public acquisition legislation. The same legislation applies to the establishment and operation of asylum recipients. The responsibility for setting up and operating asylum recipients has been fully delegated to the Directorate for Foreign Affairs. As a result of increased influxes of asylum seekers in general and single minors in particular, the Directorate for Foreign Affairs is now increasing its capacity. I assume that in this respect they are assessing offers from all serious providers, under the public procurement law. The representative Larsen also refers to the situation at Hvalstad transit reception for lone minor asylum seekers. Let me therefore link some comments to the specific situation there. Arrivals for lone minors have increased sharply in the last half of the year. This has led to a pressure on the reception of lone minors in general and the transit reception in particular. Among other things, there has been a deficit in this situation. It has delayed the asylum interviews, which in turn has prolonged the residence of many of the residents at the transit reception. Developments have forced ad hoc solutions in terms of both premises, staffing and organisation in order to ensure the proper follow-up of the individual. Capacity has increased pending a more permanent solution. The directorate for Foreign Affairs has also launched an recruitment campaign for associations. This has been successful, and the Directorate believes that they will be up-to-date with interviews in March/April. The Ministry of Labour and Inclusion has asked the Directorate of Foreign Affairs to carry out a review of the need for further measures in the short term to ensure the proper operation of the destination in Hvalstad. The Ministry has now received letters from the Directorate explaining the additional measures needed to compensate for the recent increase in arrivals. The Directorate of Foreign Affairs will further increase staffing by eleven and a half posts, primarily to strengthen individual follow-up of the individual resident. They will also facilitate increased activity and increased provision of Norwegian education, and they will purchase sports equipment, PCs and that type of case. I have reported back to the Foreign Affairs Directorate that I assume that the necessary measures are taken immediately within the current framework and mandates, so that the number of adults per. youth and other quality levels can be maintained at the level of the transit recipient in Wvalstad before capacity expansion – i.e. the Directorate for Foreign Affairs can implement the measures they have proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1770	I thank you for a preliminary answer. I owe Hanssen first of all to say that this question I asked the new Minister for Children and Gender Equality, because this is a matter that has engaged me, and which I have followed for one and a half years. Cocoon Resource Centre, which is the only one of its kind in the country, will help young asylum seekers who have been trafficked. I'm going to assume that there are more people in Hvalstad who could need this help. This resource center is empty, but it is a great professional that can provide you with that help. My commitment goes back to my own following a girl from Iran - 17 years old and all alone in the world. It makes a very big impression. That's why my commitment is that we have to do something at the human level. My further question is: With regard to these vulnerable teenagers, it has to be assumed that some of them need follow-up after trafficking. Does the Council see the need for such a resource centre?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1783	What is important for me to stress is that when you come to Norway as a lone minor asylum seeker, you first end up in the transit reception in Hvalstad. I'm very concerned that we're going to have a good crew there, so you can see the individual. At the same time, however, there is a need for the stay of the consignee of transit to be as short as possible, for it shall not be a permanent place of residence. Then, as soon as possible after he/she has arrived at the destination of transit, he/she shall be placed in one of the UDI's unit for lone minor asylum seekers. There I assume that if you see people who need extra follow-up, you have to make sure that those who are in such a vulnerable situation get it. For my part, it could be at Cocoon, if it's a relevant offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1791	I think it was very good that the Council of State answered so positively, for my concern in this matter is to put the search light on the human sides, the very vulnerable sides. Here, there are some minor asylum seekers who sort of fall between several chairs as they have some special needs for follow-up child protection services. I mention trafficking, I mention trauma from war, etc. There are free places. We can use them when asylum seekers come out of the transit reception. Whaling asylum recipients perform an escalation. I've been given good information about that. I hope the government dares to see the width here. Approved child-restraint services where this is specifically followed up may be a grant. Then you must not just push the rules and say that you have not followed them. You've actually done that. Finally, I would like to ask: will this Minister, together with the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, re-examine this matter and find a good solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1802	Once again, I think it's important for me to relate to a slightly general approach to these questions. I understand the representative there that one here is concerned that some of those who are at the Hvalstad reception, or some of those who are at any of the other departments, may need a follow-up from child protection. This means that the Child Protection Act enters into force: there is a supervisory case, and action is decided upon. It is important for me to stress that the Child Protection Act also applies to these kids. If child protection considers that there is a need for action, child protection must take action. I think it's going to be very wrong if I start to get involved in what measures child protection is then taking, where they do it, and what institutions they use. I also believe that it is in itself wrong if the Minister for Children and Gender Equality interferes with it. But we have noticed that the representative believes that Cocoon is a very good offer in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1814	I would like to ask the Minister of Knowledge a question: ‘In several schools, schemes with individual development plans and directories are introduced in which pupils’ work, objectives, achievement, evaluations, personal challenges and the like are stored. Can the Council of State ensure that these plans and folders are processed, stored and deleted under the Data Protection Act and can the Council of State state whether there are any guidelines as to what kind of information such folders and plans may contain?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1823	I would like to draw attention to the fact that the schools are watered to handle a number of information about the students. There is nothing new, even if schools use individual development plans and folder assessments. The Training Act regulates the assessment of pupils in the primary school and in further training. This applies both to rating with characters, uncharacterised assessment, in-depth assessment and final assessment. In the case of uncharacterised assessment and in-flight assessment, it is also stated that ‘Students should be able to participate in the assessment of their own work’. Many schools use individual development plans and map assessments to meet the requirement for in-flight assessment and final evaluation in the regulation. The Directorate-General for Education now assess the assessment structure of schools and enterprises in all municipalities and municipalities. One of the themes in the study is the use of various evaluation tools, such as: includes directory methodology and work plan or equivalent, indicating learning objectives for a shorter period. The report will be available in May 2008. Individual development plans can be an important means of getting pupils actively involved in the evaluation of their own work. Therefore, such plans may be part of individual individual training. Work objectives may be adapted here so that each individual student can best achieve the objectives of competence. The same applies to directory assessment, which focuses on learning processes and on feedback during work, so that students can clearly see their own development and learning methods. No guidance has been provided yet on how to use or what to hold such plans or folder ratings. This belongs to the local freedom of method and must be seen in conjunction with both the school structure and the students. As far as I know, it's common for learners and students to become familiar with the contents of the folders. A directory can be a directory, e.g. consist of a systematic collection of student work showing efforts, progress and performance in one or more areas. The collection may include student participation in the selection of content, selection criteria and criteria to assess the level in relation to certain common set objectives, and may show the students their reflections and attitudes. Folder assessment has been in use for many years, while digital directories are a newer phenomenon. In recent years, this form of work and assessment has often been supported by digital tools, such as digital learning platforms or common websites. The treatment of all types of development plans and folders follows the same rules as for other work and appointments at school. The information contained in such directories and development plans is personal information by personal data law. The training laws do not have separate privacy rules for elephants. It is therefore the rules of the Personal Information Act that need to be applied. The current issues are who will have access to the development plans/folders, how to safeguard security and how to transfer information to new schools when moving. I argued that the school owners, in the same way as for other laws and regulations, adhere to the applicable personal information law in the daily use of student folders and development plans. It is the Data Protection Authority that supervises compliance with the rules of the Data Protection Act. I'm busy with students' privacy. The data recorded must be necessary to achieve the best learning outcomes for students. The information must be processed safely and in accordance with the rules of the Personal Information Act. I want to assess whether there is a need for more information for the school owners about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1844	This was a long answer. I think that perhaps the Council of State should wake up and see that very difficult questions are being dealt with here. One thing is to evaluate learning outcomes -- that may be difficult enough -- but when you start evaluating whether students can show empathy, whether they have the ability to show response, which some of these folders start to contain, you have quite subjective assessments. How that assessment is actually done depends on personal chemistry, etc. I feel that you do not have an overview of how long this kind of information will be hanging out with a student. You really don't have any general rules on how to deal with this. We know that Norwegian school meets students with different expectations, from a social background, etc. Such a directory assessment at a rather early stage of development could then be carried out by a student for quite a long time. I think the Council of State has to look at whether the area is not quite so extensive, and that it needs some rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1855	I agree with the representative that this is an important question. It is quite right that in a good and modern school we depend on evaluating the student and giving him feedback on a wide range of factors, ranging from concrete, measurable results to more general assessments, such as: where the student does well and where the student can improve. One must consider a wide set of different competencies. It is clear that the use of directory assessment, and not least digital directories, presents us with special challenges. We have a strict data protection law in Norway that regulates the use of information in a good way. The sphere is also water to process this type of data. However, I would like to repeat what I ended up with instead, that I would like to assess whether there is a need for more information about the processing of that kind of information to municipalities and county councils in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1864	Schools may be used to processing this type of information. At the same time, we know that schools have major challenges as one in five students leave school with reading and writing difficulties, and as I said, they meet students with different types of expectations. I have a look-up from Hamar Arbeiderblad yesterday that is quite interesting. There, Professor Thomas Nordahl says, "The school creates diagnostic children." I think that if we are carefully examined, almost all of us will have a diagnosis. It's a huge challenge not to let a diagnosis go beyond what you actually need to work with it. I know that the Data Protection Authority is quite interested in this problem linked to what is happening in school. Once again, I encourage the Council of State to really get into the problem of this. Local autonomy and help are very good, but you have to be treated with respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1873	I repeat that I agree with the representative that this is an important issue. I also repeat that I would like to assess whether there is a need to inform better about this type of problem setting for the schools, not least in view of the fact that this type of assessment has been more common in recent years. I don't think the answer is to ignore that we have a complex value, where human beings are complex. I think it's better to figure out the best way to meet every single person for what it is, and give help and support when it's just about the challenges that each person has to learn more, and to develop better in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1883	I have allowed myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘In proposals for amendments to the Children’s Homes Act sent out to the hearing, the Government will establish a basis for circumventing the rule on the collection of consent of supervisors when data on the child is used for research purposes. The proposal has met with massive criticism from parents and from the Data Protection Authority. Does the Council of State believe that research and data collection can be carried out on an individual child without the consent of the child, and should parents not be entitled to reserve their own children from participation in research projects carried out on kindergarten children?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1892	In St.meld. No 16 for 2006-2007,... and no one was left, the Ministry of Knowledge pointed out that there was a need for a better knowledge base on the aspects of the education system that play a role in social cohesion. The Ministry of Knowledge stated in the message that they would sort out the question of a legal basis in Kinderhagelova to collect the necessary data. As babysitting is improved, and as the government will propose to introduce the right to a nursery, the ministry believes that there is a great need to measure the quality of childcare services. We also need a better data base to assess the long-term effects of early intervention and to see the relationship between having been in kindergarten and later learning. In the hearing note, the Ministry of Knowledge therefore proposed that information be obtained from a national nursery register. The register is only to be used for the production of statistics. The proposal does not imply that it should discard the situation of each individual child. The Ministry currently assesses the comments made during the hearing and is in dialogue with the Data Protection Authority to ensure that all privacy concerns are retained. A final proposal will come back to the department's proposal. I would like to point out that this is a very limited register, which should only have information about whether a child has had space in a nursery. The register will thus only contain the birth number of the child and the organisation number of the nursery. It is not relevant for the register to have information on the knowledge or suitability of each child or other information relating to each individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1903	I think a central point here is the trust that parents have in kindergarten. Kindergarten is the form of care most often chosen by young parents. Then it's a very central point that you have confidence and feel safe in a broad context. Research is one point. Now we have a case in the Municipal Report that is about finding children who need special follow-up. There's talk of child protection and specialists in the form of psychologists, etc. shall be able to follow-up and evaluate children. The researcher concludes that parents should not be able to make reservations in this context. We have that opportunity in research. Is it not the case that a representative sample of children should be handled to obtain these results, based on consent?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1910	To answer the last, it is clear that representative surveys can often be useful for different purposes. The challenge would then be that since the diphtheria coverage is about to be very high and likely to rise, it would be difficult to carry out a good, representative examination of the group that does not go into kindergarten. On the other hand, it would be possible with the group going to kindergarten. The research project is just comparing children who don't go to kindergarten with children who go to kindergarten. To give an example, the so-called PIRLS studies have found that there is a clear correlation between the number of years a kindergarten goes into and the skill of reading and writing later. In connection with a number of other purposes, it may be interesting to assess the benefits or possible disadvantages of going to kindergarten - how it turns out and under what conditions it is. I repeat that we are in a dialogue with the Data Protection Agency just to find good solutions to these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1917	The issue we are dealing with here now is not primarily about a comparison between children in kindergarten and children outside kindergarten. This is about which regime you have to submit to if you're in kindergarten. So the starting point is that you have to assume that there is a register somewhere where the child's personal data is recorded. You have to figure out that child protection, psychologists, etc. follow up your child without getting any knowledge of it, or without being able to have reservations in relation to it. Can't the Council of State imagine that there's quite a lot of uncertainty for parents in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1927	First, I want to make it clear that this is about information that goes on whether you have gone to kindergarten, or whether you have not gone to kindergarten, not information about, for example. social competence, performance, knowledge or other features of the child. It's a very important clarification. So it's just because we're concerned that the research base that can make us further improve the childcare provision and other efforts for young children should be good, we've met with the Data Protection Agency. We've been in a dialogue with them on how best to get data. There are several issues that you can look at, and after that dialogue we get back with a proposal that we think will take care of privacy in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1934	So we go back to question 13. This question, from the representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen to the Minister of Justice, will be answered by the Minister of Knowledge as the appropriate representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1940	‘During and immediately after the war, many people in Finland did not receive an acceptable schooling. This deprived many people of the possibility of continuing schooling, and many suffered a severe reduction in their quality of life as a result. Is the Government in the process of developing new laws to prevent discrimination and discrimination, does the Council of State consider that this group has been treated in an acceptable way, and does the Council of State consider that one should lose its rights if one has Norwegian as its mother tongue?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1947	It is just as Fredriksen's representative points out that many, both from Finnmark and elsewhere in Norway, got their schooling destroyed during the war and in the years immediately afterwards. However, damages or disadvantages caused by the war do not provide a basis for judicial compensation from the state. Therefore, applications for such compensation have been rejected because applicants have lost their schooling during or shortly after the war. It initially applies completely independent of native language. The reason is that Norwegian government powers cannot be blamed for what can be traced back to the acts of war. The size was adopted in 2005, cf. Inner. S. No 152 for 2004-2005, to join a proposal from the Government, cf. St.meld. No 44 for 2003–04, to adapt the system of legal compensation so that co-workers and women who lost one and a half years of schooling or more during and immediately after the war could still receive legal compensation from the state, because these ethnic minority groups had come in a particularly poor way compared to other Nordics. Those who had Sami or female language as their mother tongue, and who could not Norwegian well at school start, received little benefit from an education that only went to Norwegian. So it was a combination of the research policy and the loss of schooling due to the war that led to the decision of mass destruction, which separated these groups from those who had Norwegian as their mother tongues different places in the country. In the big message that I just mentioned, it was stipulated that about 800 people could search justice on the basis of the criteria that were laid down. From the time the scheme was established, in 2005, and until now, the Directorate of Education has had about 950 applications for evaluation. We don't have any final figures on how many people have actually been paid justice, because all the cases are not yet settled. But based on the decisions taken, we can assume that 80-90 pst. have received or will receive legal compensation from the State. It is important to point out that one of the criteria for obtaining justice under this special scheme is that the seeker had Sami or female as a native language and could not Norwegian well enough at school start. The special scheme is therefore only relevant for relatively few people who have come out particularly badly. All applicants who fall outside the special scheme must be treated equally. It means that those from Finnmark who have Norwegian language as their mother tongue, and who did not receive acceptable schooling during and immediately after the war, have not come out worse than others from other parts of the country when it comes to obtaining justice. There were unfortunately many who in various places in Norway got lost schooling during and right after the war. The representative finally asks if the Council of State thinks one should lose his dishes if one has Norwegian as its mother tongue. I then noticed that no one initially has a right to receive justice from the state. The system of legal compensation is a system established by the Storting itself. It is possible to search, but it is the Storting itself that will finally decide whether a seeker falls within the scheme, and in case of how much justice the seeker can get.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1963	It would be thought that when you made a promise to capture those who did not get a satisfactory schooling, it would be that you initially caught up as much as possible. I record and see that there has not been the intention here - in a state of many different languages and ethnicities who have chosen to relate to two. Then we find ourselves in a situation where unfortunately we do not catch up with those who speak Norwegian as their mother tongue and who have also lost school. For the individual this applies, the problem is that someone gets it, while others don't get it. I think it's sad, and I think it's unfortunate that that's the case, because there's something important in Finnmark, it's treating everyone who lives there like that. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State: do you have no plans to follow up this mistreatment that is there today?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1970	As I said, we treat everyone in Norway who has Norwegian as their mother tongue, like when it comes to this issue. It is very regrettable that many people got their schooling destroyed during and after the war, but one has thus established that it does not in itself provide a basis for judicial compensation from the state. The Storting has decided to set up a special scheme in which one can apply for legal compensation if one has Sami or female as a native language and could not do well enough Norwegian for one to benefit from training in Norwegian when one started school. These are many in this relatively small group that are useful. But I repeat: those who speak Norwegian as their native language in Norway are treated in the same way on this issue without regard for every cage in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1982	It's kind of nice to hear that they're being treated in the same way as other Nordics, as they say. But the point of what I'm raising is that they're not being treated in the same way as their own in Finnmark. Personally, I have an application from a person who has lost four years of schooling and who cannot get a cheap substitute because she has Norwegian as her mother tongue. I think everyone understands that it feels fairly unfair. Another side is that Finnmark was much more exposed to the war than most other places. It can be mentioned that there was only one city in Europe that had more bombings than the Kirkenes; it was Valletta in Malta. The population had poor opportunities for education. It's raised above any doubt. It was about everyone who lived in Finnmark. It's sad to live in a world where we see that some people can't even apply for cheap compensation because of their mother tongue.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1991	Finnmark was particularly hard hit by the war. But I think I dare say that the whole of Norway was the hard frame of the second war war, and that it meant very tough conditions for many in all Norway. Unfortunately, there were also many who lost their schooling during the war or in the years immediately afterwards. It is true that Finnmark was a particularly tough frame of situation. However, it is decided to treat all in a non-discriminatory manner, in such a way that one does not have the right to justice. A combination of research policy and the war is the basis for the special arrangement that the Stortinget has previously agreed. It's because they with Sami and female backgrounds that could not Norwegian well enough to make it possible to benefit from the training, have had the opportunity to apply for a justice allowance, while a similar scheme does not apply to others who may have lost school because of the war.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e1998	Then we go to question 24.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e2004	I will ask the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs the following questions: ‘The Food Authority has imposed the slaughter of 2 million trout by Fjordlak in order to reduce the risk of the spread of the VHS virus. The decision is of great economic importance. In professional environments, there is considerable scientific doubt and lack of knowledge related to the need for action. In response to a question about the VHS virus, the Council of State shows that no country distinguishes between different subtypes of the VHS virus. Will the Government take a more active view of the matter and provide a better professional basis for the Food Safety Authority’s management of the VHS?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e2011	Norway has a good animal health status in an international context, including farmed fish. The free status of VHS and IHN allows us to impose strict requirements on the import of live fish and fish eggs and to gain easier access to markets that have similar strict requirements related to these diseases. We aim to maintain this free status for the rest of the country and to restore it as soon as possible for the area in question in Storfjorden. VHS virus was first detected in the North Sea more than 20 years ago and subsequently detected in a quantity of fish species. Since then, researchers have, with increasingly sophisticated methods, divided the VHS virus into a number of subgroups. Fish health managers around the world have been discussing for a long time whether to manage different types of VHS virus differently, no later than on several occasions in 2006. Every time this has been put on the agenda, the conclusions have been that this is not possible or desirable. From the Norwegian side, we have taken an active part in these discussions, at the Food Authority and the Veterinary Institute. The latter is Norway’s reference laboratory for VHS. Our administration should be professionally based, but also based on international agreements, regulations and standards. I believe that we have an active position on the matter. In the short-term perspective - i.e. that, when such a serious disease as VHS is detected in Norwegian trout farms, we must react quickly before this infection spreads to other herdsmen, as the Food Safety Authority has done in the case in question. In the longer-term perspective, it is of great importance that we get more and better research, both as a basis for our administrative decisions and as a basis for the Norwegian involvement in international fora such as the World Organisation for Animal Health and the EU bodies - this is because it is where we discuss and clarify principles for the diagnosis, prevention and treatment of fish diseases.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e2027	I would like to thank you for your answer. However, I would still like to say that I feel the government is passive and a little unaccompanied in this matter. This is also a single matter that causes a company in More and Romesdal to lose 200 million. kr on the market and likely to need to permit 150 employees. Then we have a situation where there is a great deal of professional disagreement between the Veterinary Institute and the Institute of Biology and the Institute of Marine Research in relation to the need for slaughtering when you have infection of this subgroup of the VHS virus. Norway is a leading nation in aquaculture. Doesn't the Council of State see that we should have our own professional opinion of that kind of question? And: Will the Council of State now take initiatives to get more research, set up an expert committee that goes through the issue, and ensure that we do not make unnecessary killings as a result of professional conflicts and lack of knowledge?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e2034	Norway is the world leader in aquaculture and Norway is also the world leader in animal health issues in the farming industry. Food surveillance is, through the food law, given the competence to take decisions and take action against fish diseases. The home base is designed as a proxy home that tells what the Food Authority can do. It is the Veterinary Institute that is the main supplier of research-based knowledge support for fish health. It is the Professional Council of the Veterinary Institute that the Danish Food Safety Authority must rely on, and not on, other more or less random professional advice that may conflict with the standards set by the World Organisation for Animal Health. To the extent that there are professional disagreements, at least I, as Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, shall not intervene as a Supreme Judge in such decisions. It could have incalculable and negative consequences for the Norwegian farming industry as such.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e2041	It is a little frustrating that the Council of State does not answer this question. There's a great deal of professional disagreement, and my question was whether the government would show such commitment that they are launching more research and perhaps trying to get a more thorough professional documentation of the need for decommissioning. Then it is not satisfactory that the Council of State refers only to the legislation and to who has the formal responsibility, for all those who have seen this situation, know how it works. The question is therefore whether the Government as the responsible authority of one of the world's largest aquaculture nations will work to avoid unnecessary losses for the industry and then, in the next round, will try to influence the legislation internationally. Then it is not satisfactory that heavy trade unions disagree, while the government is just sitting on the fence and passive.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e2048	Norway is very active in this area. We spend a lot of money on research, and we spend money on the Food Authority, which is going to make decisions on these kinds of issues, and on the Veterinary Institute, which is the knowledge-based institution that the Food Authority is going to lean on in these kinds of questions. The marine research institute, which is also funded by the State budget, is the provider of knowledge in this area. In addition to developing legislation and research in Norway, we are active in the World Organisation for Animal Health and in relation to the standards set there. If the representative Hansen believes that the Minister for Fisheries should go in and review the technical advice of those who are going to give us them, then it is a proposal I will take a long way from.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e2058	I would like to ask questions to the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs: ‘In proposals for regulation of lobster fishing there are significant regulatory intensifications upon consultation. Proposed changes are complex and inapplicable and will be difficult to comply with, although they were intentional harmonisation and simplification. These proposals will result in an increase in illegal fishing, reporting, reports and a damaged coastal culture, which in turn will result in a massive increase in the cost of control measures and increased lobster prices. Does the Council of State see that these changes could have significant negative consequences?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e2067	Since the late 1980s and to this day, a number of measures have been implemented in an attempt to reverse the trend from long-term decline in lobster populations to rebuild the population to a higher level. Currently, lobster populations are low, and therefore action is critically needed. In October 2007, a working group on measures to increase lobster populations put forward a proposal for the management of lobsters in Norway. The report is the result of a comprehensive process that has lasted over three years. Open consultation meetings have been organised to take account of professional fishing as well as recreational fishing. The working group has presented a wide range of measures to build up the stock of lobsters. The alternative to this could be total salvation, and that's something I'd rather avoid just to preserve tradition and coastal culture. The working group considers that the proposals that have been promoted could contribute to the build-up of the lobster population, but later on than if they were fully satisfied. The bad constitution of the lobster stock suggests, among other things: that the amount of tools should be limited in order to limit the tax burden. The measures set out in the proposal will result in both professional and recreational fishermen helping to build up the population. I would like to stress that the misery that the representative Schmidt outlines in his question will become a fact if you don't take this seriously. The report of the Working Party on Fisheries DG comments is now being consulted. The hearing period is set at 25 March. The Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs will carry out an assessment of the further work on this matter once the consultation has been concluded and the final proposal has been forwarded to the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e2084	I would like to thank you for the reply from the Council of State. When a person reads what is out of the audience, and also when a person reads the Fisheries Director's assessments of the proposals that lie there, it may seem that it goes very far. There's a lot of grip you could take, which wouldn't have been as profound as what this proposal involves, among other things. lobster parks and reserves. If one goes for the proposal that exists, it will mean a limited access for ordinary fishermen as well. I would believe that the Council of State has a different view of that in relation to the rights of all persons and movement at sea. What does the Council of State think about especially lobster parks and lobster reserves along the south coast? How's that going to happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e2093	Now the Fisheries Directorate has a proposal out for consultation. I don't think it's natural that I go into the details of that proposal, or start commenting on it, until the consultation round is concluded and the department has received a final recommendation from the Fisheries Directorate. Now everyone who has views on this matter has the opportunity to bring them to the hearing. I do not want to commit to either the one or the other proposal now. But what I want to be very clear about is that if we don't do anything, the consequences are in the long run very sad for those who harvest lobster for recreational and professional purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e2100	Does the Council then see the possibility that just this, you should say, black fishing could happen - and that is already happening today - on the south coast? It's not that big control measures that are going on in the summer when we have a lot of tourists both in boats and on cabins that actually take part of this, and that destroy recreational fishing and the coastal culture for those who live down there. Does the Council of State not see that one could also be more active in advance instead of going as drasticly to work as it is now proposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e2107	Over the years, from time to time, it has been necessary to take very drastic measures to save fish stocks that have been exposed to too much pressure. This applies, for example: what we are now doing with regard to the coastal cod, and with regard to cod fishing in the Barents Sea. I could give a lot of examples of that. I am concerned that we find measures that enable us to manage the lobster stock on a sustainable basis also in the long term, and I expect that no matter how the final legislation is designed, it will be respected. It is totally unacceptable to fish illegally, regardless of whether you disagree with the rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-12.ana.ud2294e2114	This way, today's maps are processed. Does anyone ask for the word in relation to § 37a of Stortinget’s Rules of Procedure? - The meeting's over.
