ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e22	The representative of Olav Akselsen, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. The representative Ib Thomsen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e30	On behalf of Per-Willy Amundsen, Oddvar Hallset Reiacam, Jørund Rytman and myself, I want to promote a proposal for a representative to investigate the consequences of making municipalities and county municipalities subject to the Accounting Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e35	The representative Per Sandberg will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e38	On behalf of the big business representatives Arne Sortevik, Bård Hoksrud and myself, I would like to propose a proposal for an investigation into the possible extension of the Flytrain to Sandefjord Airport Torp and Moss Airport Rygge.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e43	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e70	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Anne-Grete Ström-Erichsen State Council Bjarne Håkon Hanssen State Council Terje Riis-Johansen The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We will then begin with the first main questions from the representative, Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e89	I will be allowed to ask a question to the Minister of Health and Care. During these days, the country's municipal politicians shall adopt budgets in their respective municipalities. Almost daily we are told that the same municipalities have to cut their care services due to poor finances. There are proposals for the reduction of staffing, the removal of hospital wards, etc. In addition to this, the impact of the financial crisis on the municipality of Norway and, therefore, on the provision of care services, which together with the school takes most of the municipal budgets, is now also warned. This results from the fact that we are now expected to have a significantly lower tax intake, while higher expenditure on social assistance will be directed towards municipalities. This gives cause for concern. My question to the Council of State will then be as follows: What will the Council of State do, in cooperation with the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, in order to ensure that the care sector in the municipalities receives the promise that is both necessary and promised by the Government? Or do you want to follow the situation carefully in this area as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e98	In the budget to be adopted soon, the local government sector has received a significant increase from the Government. My experience is that local politicians around the Norwegian municipalities are committed to giving priority to the health and social sector, and in particular to the care and care sector. So I think the situation is different in different municipalities, and that's why there's every reason to be observant, as the representative Nesvik says. Now it remains to be seen what the outcome of the financial crisis will be on the overall financial situation of the coming year. The government's strategy is that we follow the situation, which Nesvik was in, follow up on what's happening, observe the evolution. It is clear that the Government is constantly prepared to face a negative development with active measures. We have documented this so far with measures against banks, measures against the export industry, and of course we also have on the agenda to follow the situation and developments in municipalities. During the years that the current government has ruled Norway, we have had a significant growth in the number of people employed in the care sector, and I am quite sure that when we are done in 2008, we will see that we are well above what was the starting point for this four-year period, that is to say 10,000 new annual works. I think we can get an annual growth in the care and care sector in 2009 as well, but we need to keep an eye on the consequences of the financial crisis, so that if the financial crisis does not lead to developments in that direction, the municipalities and we want to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e107	In the Municipal Report of 27 August 2008, we were able to read about a discussion on whether the Government's figures on new hands in the care sector are correct. The Prime Minister himself has said that the target of 10 000 new hands in the sector is being met, while the KS itself points out that according to the figures they have when they look through their payroll and personnel registers – that is where we see who is working in our municipalities – there are 7,300 new ones that have arrived. How, then, will the Council of State provide evidence that there are 10,000, as claimed, while the KS, which maintains pay and personnel records, refers to 7,300 in its documents?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e114	One would really think that it would be possible to count this in a reasonable way, but it turns out repeatedly in the Norwegian social debate that some of the things we discuss most are numbers and sizes – how much, by what, when? I believe that we gradually have quite good traditions in Norway to try to find some independent actors who have great professional weight and from whom we can have confidence in calculations. The figures that make me operate with 11,000 annual jobs in the care and care sector are those of the Statistical Central Bureau. I don't know if that's how the Progress Party believes that the Statistical Central Bureau can't count, but I've seen that examples from the Statistical Central Bureau have been used eagerly by the party in other contexts. That's what's the starting point for my estimate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e121	There will be follow-up questions – first No pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e124	Before the election campaign in 2005, the Workers’ Party’s health policy spokesman – Bjarne Håkon Hanssen – called for a doubling of the number of medical staff in Norwegian nursing homes, and he demanded a national minimum standard. The first working party did after taking over the government power was to forget the requirement of national minimum standards and lower ambitions to 50 pst. increase. Now the statistics show that during the first three years of the government period, the increase has been 16 pst. So the level of ambition is reduced by 84 pst, from 100 pst. to 16 pst. – and this is a fairly simple bill. What does the Council of State intend to do in the last year in order to come close to what was promised in 2005 to the voters with regard to sound medical coverage in Norwegian nursing homes?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e133	If I'm going to use the representative's payroll numbers, this government has delivered 16 pst. better medical coverage in hospitals than that of the previous government when the Right guided health policy. In that way, at least we're able to do it better than what the right did. I agree with the representative Wohnning that there is no doubt that both the medical coverage in Norwegian nursing homes – and the medical coverage in Norwegian municipalities in general – and the professionalism in the municipal health service are too poor. As the representative of Wage is well-known, I am currently working under high pressure with an interaction reform. This interaction reform is becoming more and more the result of a major and comprehensive community health reform, where I see the need to strengthen community health services in relation to medical care in hospitals, in relation to mental health protection and in relation to drugs – prevention work in a broad area. In April I will make a proposal in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e143	Laila Bavøy - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e146	It is true that the municipalities in these days are signalling the number of jobs, among other things. in the care of the elderly, and they account for much lower tax revenue than the government has provided in its budget. The elderly today need far more sick homes than the 1000 places the Government will provide incentives for next year. That's why the Christian People's Party proposed 3,000 sick places in its alternative budget next year. I look with concern at a situation in the country's municipalities where you seem to have to cut into important welfare goods. In response to the representative, Nesvik, the Minister of Health said that the situation is different in the different municipalities, and that the government should follow, but it does not provide predictability, and it takes time to build hospitals. So my question is whether the Minister of Health will contribute to the Government guaranteeing the tax revenue in the budget proposal that they themselves have presented, as the Christian People's Party has called for.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e155	With all due respect, the Minister of Health does not choose to comment on the government’s policy on the local economy and what profile the government should have on the tax arrangements for the municipalities. It is the other state councils who are responsible for this, and I do not want to comment on these issues on their behalf from the Parliamentary Chair. But I can comment on the issue of the development of nursing homes and nursing homes in the municipalities. It is that we have a commitment framework of 1000 places this year and a commitment framework of 1000 places next year. This means that, in the coming year, a significant number of nursing homes and nursing homes will be built in Kommune-Norway, as both this year and last year, you will get results from the commitment framework. And then we'll see if it's enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e162	Gunvald Ludvigsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e165	The government has had quite a high cigarette intake and said that the municipal economy and the care of the elderly should shine. It has created sky-high expectations in local politicians and not least in the population. Every day in the municipalities shone a little too late. In all the newspapers we read every day, there are cuts and cuts that are the melody. My question to the Council of State is: does not the Council of State not see that there are problems when there is not at all a match between the image of the Government and the actual everyday life experienced by local politicians?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e174	I believe that I myself am trying to contribute to a very sober picture of the health situation in general and in the community health service in particular. I am very clear that the local health service has clear shortcomings, and that there is a lot to do to ensure that we can be satisfied with a comprehensive community health service, including the care and care sector. We have led a policy that has led to 11,000 more people working in the care service in Norway today than it was when we took over. Looking at developments in the last period, when the Left was in government, there was hardly enough annual growth at all. Then it's quite natural, I think, that the government says that it may well take even more years, but the fact that 11,000 more jobs there are actually a very important contribution. Only the wages of the 11,000 are approaching 5 billion kroner. So it's a good contribution, but it hasn't brought us into goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e181	Vigdis Giltun - for follow-up questions
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e184	I am concerned about today's situation out in Kommune-Norway. Today's situation indicates that very many cuts are planned in the year to come. When the Council of State says that he is aware of the major deficiencies that are already there, there is reason for serious concern. Then I want to go back to the nursing homes and the construction of the nursing homes that were mentioned. The Progress Party has also invested 3,000 new nursing homes and homes in next year's budget, three times as many as the Government. Over a period of three months this summer, 2,800 applications from municipalities, from all the counties in the country, were made to build with grants. Then it can't be good enough for the government to answer: Yes, a thousand of you will get a yes. We don't know how many applications are now, but it might have doubled again. Does the Council not see that it is already time to adjust the figure and make sure that the wheels are started and built, so that municipalities can offer the people what they think is right, and the elderly and caregivers can get a proper housing offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e193	What didn't surprise me when I saw the Progress Party's proposal for an alternative budget was that we propose to grant more than the Government. It would have happened no matter what the government had proposed. As I say, when it comes to the number of nursing homes and nursing homes, we basically have a goal that, as far as I remember, we are going to build 12,000 units by 2015. That ambition stands firm. Then we're going to evaluate continuously whether the need is greater than the 12,000. The government has started in this way that we have a commitment framework this year of 1000 and a commitment framework for next year of 1000. We believe that this is a good starting point, and then we will continue to assess the situation with a view to achieving in 2015 the objectives outlined in the care notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e200	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e203	My question goes to the Minister of Defence. Modern defence depends entirely on a strong ICT sector. The size has discussed this many times and has been very clear. The size wants an overall environment for the ICT sector. It also leads to leadership. This environment has been added to Jørstadmoen, and management is defined very clearly in the instructions given to the manager. They shall be responsible for the overall management and management of the information infrastructure of the defence and shall be responsible for the overall development of the information infrastructure of the defence. This was confirmed by the Stortinget in June of this year in the examination of the long-term programme. Fine reading of the budget, and not least what you read in various newspaper essays, suggests that the Council of State is working on plans that are contrary to the clear perception of the Storting, by building up parallel structures to what I referred to, in Oslo. My question to the Council of State is: why is the Council of State working on plans that are contrary to the clearly expressed will of the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e213	Nothing else is being worked on except what has been said, both in the long-term plan and what is being briefed on in St.prp. No 1, i.e. that we will bring together all ICT activities in the Defence under one chief, INI, which are not yet established but will be established. It has been such that the Centre of Competence to which it refers, at Jørstadmoen, was established in connection with St.prp. No 42 for 2003–2004. There has been a very great success, because it accounts for an important part of the ICT activities that are part of the operational activities of the Defence – infrastructure and links in relation to what is important for the defence sectors. But this is not about all ICT activities in Defence. This is what belongs to the operational one. Everything that goes on the administrative, the usual administrative systems that we all use for every day, like mail systems – all that infrastructure – belong to the FLO. Of the posts that are now placed under a new head, INI, who will be approx. 1 200-1 300 jobs, 285 belong to the FK KKIS environment at Jørstadmoen and still have to do so. No position shall be taken from Jørstadmoen. Jørstadmoen and the environment to be maintained. It should work out the way it does. It also has some satellites around Norway, which it still needs. On the contrary, today this environment is reporting to the Chief Joint Loss in the Defence Staff. Now it will be reported to a chief, INI, who will be the head of all ICT activities in the Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e222	It is quite obvious that the Council of States is not dealing with the wishes of the Storting. It is also clear that the management of the business should be on Jørstadmoen, according to this idea of overall management. When Stortinget uses the word "total", Stortinget means "total". Then my question is: what does the Council of State think that the Stortinge has meant when you have used the word 'total'?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e227	I can only refer to what is in the comment that was written in the settings of St.prp. No 42 for 2003–2004, where it states: ‘The Committee has taken note of the proposal to establish a Centre of Competence for the Command and Information Systems of the Defence Agency.’ These are the systems concerned with the operational activities of the Defence Agency. It is not about administrative systems, economic systems and the type of activity – all that has been under FLO ICT in those years. What is going to happen now is that nothing is to be taken from Jørstadmoen. They shall have their subject area, which is very important for the ability of aeroplanes, frigates and tanks to communicate. But here everything has to be subordinated to one chief, instead of being reported to a chief joint loss today. There will be no change, either in the competence environment, the positions at Jørstadmoen or the level at which this organisation is located.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e237	There will be follow-up questions – first Per Ove Wideth.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e240	Despite what the Council of State has said today, I believe that this may be an example, a bad example, of the defence's management taking care of despite the decisions taken by the magnificence, or do so, for example. movements without a decision to fold up in the back. I'm afraid this which is revealed, can trigger several similar examples in the time that comes. I should not go further than to my own county, where the Fail School of Maritime Defense quietly disappeared from the Horten for a long time back. The decision on relocation was taken in connection with the long-term proposal in June of this year. Then the school had already disappeared to Bergen, almost in the night's cloud and darkness. My question to the Council of State is, Is this done with the knowledge and will of the Council of State? Is this common practice, or does she not understand what the defence management is doing?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e247	I have an overview of the movements that were being talked about, and the changes in the organisation that are being made. But there are no moves going on that Stortinget is not informed about. The command school was not moved until the long-term plan was adopted. The command school was changed in its form, because very much of the business was operating on a sailing ship instead of being located on land, as it was in the past. With regard to the competence environment at Jørstadmoen and that part of the IT environment, less than 300 posts out of a total of 1200-1300 will be placed under a Chief INI. It is clearly specific in what was established in 2003–04, which part of the ICT activity is concerned. It's a major and important part of the operative part of the defense, which we can neither lack nor fail to build on and strengthen. That's exactly what it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e254	Jan Sahl – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e257	In two long-term plans, a unanimous growth has decided to bring together the ICT environments of defence at Jørstadmoen. The Minister of Defense is now saying that nothing is being moved. No, but it's breaking up, Minister of Defense. My question is this: Does the Minister of Defence disagree with the fact that the management of the INI functions has taken place from Jørstadmoen from the autumn of 2004? What kind of documentation, if any, shows that these functions have been located elsewhere?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e264	There has not been a collection of all kinds of ICT activities in the Defence, but there has been a collection of a competence environment within the operational part of the Defence. It's been to Jørstadmoen. It's supposed to be at Jørstadmoen. This environment has been reported to the Chief Joint Staff of the Defence Staff of Oslo. It shall now report to Chief INI, who shall have the entire ICT activity in the Defence, including those belonging to the administrative systems, inter alia. operation in the FLO. The ICT activities in Defence are distributed throughout the country. It can't be just in one place. For example, the operating environment is completely dependent on its location at all locations where the defense has a base.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e271	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e274	In the context of the long-term plan, the Defence Committee states: ‘The Committee is concerned that this will maximise the pooling of ICT resources in defence.’ You refer to Jørstadmoen. In addition, it is stated in instructions to the Head of the Defence Competence Centre for Command, Control and Information Systems: ‘The Chief shall be the Chief Defence Officer’s adviser within the Defence Information Infrastructure and shall be in charge of the Chief Defence Officer.’;» It's not really about whether to take something from Jørstadmoen. It's about whether you're building activities in other areas now, so that in the next round, when someone comes with a rematch, you pick Jørstadmoen. I would like to put a word on my concerns. I won't talk on behalf of others. We who know Stortinget know that the head of defense is a very intelligent and on-going chief of defense, but he also has a considerable capacity for rematches. We would like to know that it is the Minister of Defence who controls this, not the head of defence. We would like to know that it is not the Chief of Defense's ability to rematch, intelligently and loyally, that in practice undermines the decision of the Stortinge. We want to know that the Minister of Defense is following up Storting's decision, so that we can trust that Jørstadmoen will be the force center that it is supposed to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e292	Of course, Stortinget should trust that the Minister of Defence will follow the decision of the Storting. I see that as of course, and I'll put my honor in it. So here we are talking about an environment that is very important and that has an important competence environment for the operational part of the defence. But it's not about all the jobs. You can just look at the number, and you'll see that. FK KKIS, the environment at Jørstadmoen, which we ourselves have entered in our long-term plan to continue, consists of a total of 285 jobs. Most of them are at Jørstadmoen, but some are also in other parts of the country, because it is absolutely necessary to have that kind of position there. In addition, for example: FLO many hundreds of operating positions. In total, it shall enter the new organisation approximately. 1 200-1 300 people. The number of posts at Jørstadmoen will not be reduced, because we just need to strengthen and clean up the environment that is so crucial to the operational activities of the Defence Agency.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e299	Olemic Thommessen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e302	I hear the Minister of Defense constantly returning to the number of posts at Jørstadmoen. That's really not what this is all about. What it's about is the story that we've now seen about Jørstadmoen, and what's obviously been the strong interests in Defense to move business back to Oslo. It is about the confidence in the political processes that they are linked to what defence actually does. We've had a strong feeling that the head of defense has had a desire for new rematches about Jørstadmoen, and we've seen a way to it. When we then at the first crossroads, namely in the context of the budget, after examining this matter in June, we see that there is a case where there is a manifestly different understanding of the content, it is not very reliable. Can we wait for new rematches about Jørstadmoen?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e311	I noticed that the representative used the words'strong feeling'. «Strength feeling» is not the same as knowing or not knowing that you have a story in general about moving from the district or from other parts of the country into Oslo. I have, on the contrary, tried to stand for the opposite. But I can't break up a competence environment more than it's split up today. It's important that we also get together in this area. That doesn't mean we're changing the environment on Jørstadmoen. FK KKIS today has 285 jobs distributed most in Jørstadmoen, but also in other parts of the country. They're still going to have to have that. Not one of the posts to be moved to Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e318	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e321	The biggest challenge of our time is global warming, so my question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. Since the red-green government joined, we've had three oil and energy ministers. The new ministers have scolded the pastor's projects. The last inauguration was the energy message. The result of scrapping and switching is a total standstill in the development and development of renewable energy in Norway. The 2009 budget does not change this picture. Norway has a per cent share of the EU average. Today, Europe's worst framework conditions for renewable energy deployment. The investors escape the country. They invest in Sweden, Denmark, the United Kingdom and Germany, just to mention some countries. The question we have to ask ourselves is, why are they doing this? They do it well, as they say themselves, because they find it more profitable to invest in these countries. Last night, I spoke to a major industrial leader who is considering large stakes in the United Kingdom. Enova's big effort by the Government doesn't change this picture either. But then the world needs more energy, and it needs to be renewable. Unfortunately, Norway does not agree to pull this load. Former Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland said it is typical Norwegian to be good. Now I think we can rewrite it and say that it's typical Norwegian to stand still. Despite this, the Government has a goal of leading Norway in the development of environmentally friendly energy. My question becomes so simple: Does the Council of State consider Norway to be the leader in the development and development of renewable energy in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e334	I could answer it very easily and said yes. But to clarify it, I'll first start with the actual situation. We have a big debate in Europe, and the EU has set itself a target of 20 pst of renewable energy. in 2020. That means an 80 pst. fossil fraction. Today, Norway has a fossil share of 40 pst. and a renewable share of 60 pst. Norway is the leading country in Europe on renewable energy, but that is not enough. I fully agree with the representative that we need to move on to address the climate challenges. One of the solutions is to expand more renewable energy. Therefore, we spend more money on Enova than ever before – much more money on Enova than that, for example. the previous government did. This year, Enova has just over 2 billion kroner at its disposal, and it's going to add another 1.4 billion dollars to Enova next year. Enova is the government's main means of getting new energy up and down. For example, in the case of heat, which is a significant area in the field of renewable energy, the investments, initiated by the Enova system, have soon passed DKK 8 billion over the last few years. So there's a lot of bet. A lot is being built to bring renewable heat to households in Norway. In the case of wind, several applications to Enova have been made this year. Enova has just over a billion dollars at its disposal to expand the wind. I'm making an offshore wind code, which I think is the new, big one, where we can really take the big step to get a new, big renewable energy source in place. Otherwise, I think it is good for Norwegian companies to engage in the development of renewable energy in other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e349	Governments are talking about Enova as the main tool of the government. But it doesn't help with important tools when it doesn't lead to expansion. If we look at NVE's list of concessions on wind power, it's the same number that have been granted concession, and that doesn't start building, that's the one that's been granted concession, and that starts building. It should be thought-provoking with our wind map! Because we can be Europe's renewable battery in Norway, with our renewable resources. But we are therefore a retard in the field of renewable development. The financial crisis that we are now facing with both legs opens up new opportunities for investing in renewable energy. The question is whether we want to use this opportunity that is now opening up. My question to the Council of State is: What will he do in the coming year to speed up the expansion of wind power, wave power, small power, salt power and solar energy in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e358	The concrete answer to the question is to spend money on Enova. That's the company, the institution we use to get the new projects up. I used an example that clearly did not reach the representative Holten Hemdal in terms of what is happening on heat, which is a formidable bet and change. In terms of wind, we've made changes. It is quite correct, as the representative says, that there have been few wind projects that have come up. This is precisely why the ceiling on aid as a percentage of the investment budget of the wind turbines was changed this year. Enova has been in the market and talked to the companies, and has been given information about what needs to be done to get the investment aid more relevant in order to get the projects up and running. The limit of 25 pst. has been removed. This means that the applications that are now evaluated by Enova are assessed according to different criteria from those that have been made in the past. We're going to get more on the wind, but we must not forget what's happening on the small force, and what's happening on the heat.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e365	There will be follow-up questions – first Ketil Solvik-Olsen. The President will state that it is permissible to answer only yes or no questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e370	All the industry organisations in the energy industry say that the Government's instrument is not adapted to the Government's objectives. The accounts for start-up power projects under this government show that. There are very few new projects under way by this government. The industry, on the other hand, is very willing to invest, some of the hundreds of projects on the waiting list show. But they're waiting for framework conditions to work, and they're pointing out that the government's still picking out the wrong system. The wind power industry is an example. In three years the wind power industry has had three different systems to deal with. It doesn't give you any trust. Green certificates are the preferred support system for the industry, but the government has not been able to deliver and owe to the Swedes. But the Swedes say that it is Norway, by being unclear about what kind of scheme a wish is, which does not get through, among other things. because the Government says that small-scale power plants should not be included in the support system. Will the government include small power plants in a green certificate market?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e380	With regard to the negotiations with Sweden on green certificates, I would like to ask for an understanding that we are conducting those negotiations with Sweden now, with a view to obtaining good solutions. We have said in the negotiations that have been conducted so far that, after the EU's renewable directive is in place, we will establish a framework for Norwegian-Swedish cooperation. The goal is to have it in place in October 2009, and we're working on that. We were late in contact and had a meeting with the Swedish authorities a short time ago about this. I think we're going to put in place a green certificate market, but we're talking about integrating two energy markets that are quite different in their form, so there's no quick fix for this -- there's a demanding process to go. In the case of diverse support systems that are demanding for industry to deal with, I believe that there is a very good reason for now to bet on investment aid, as we have done in recent years. It is predictable, and it allows for customization. [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e387	Ivar Kristiansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e390	The answer is Enova, what was the question? appears to be the government’s autopilot response to these very important questions raised here today. Just to repeat the question: When will it be up to the Government that Norway’s best forces – those with capital, knowledge and commitment – rather, because of the lack of framework conditions in Norway, choose to invest their forces, their money and their knowledge abroad in the renewable sector? When will it be up to today's government that the lack of framework conditions at home go beyond bets at home, but, of course, does the United Kingdom, Germany and other nations enjoy? What the Government has provided in this area of policy is four pages in the form of a big message. So if we take a good look at it, we've given you one page per page. years. Does not the Council of State now realise that it is time to create framework conditions in Norway to enable one to deliver in these areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e397	Point 1: The framework conditions now granted to the renewable industry in Norway are much better than they were when this government took over. Much more money is allocated to support renewable projects. We also see that, especially on the heating side, we get projects of a completely different size than before. Point 2: I am a little surprised at the de minimisisation by the representative of Kristiansen that we are actually betting on renewable projects, for example. on the other side of the border between Norway and England. I believe that having a company like this. State power, the largest renewable energy in Europe, provides both an opportunity and a responsibility to be in the European market and to exploit and develop renewable energy. The United Kingdom has a renewable share of 2 pst., so that wind power projects are also being implemented on the English side of the North Sea, is very good in achieving the climate goals we have set ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e404	Gunnar Kvassheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e407	This round in Stortinget confirms what many see as a major problem in Norwegian energy policy, that we have a self-fulfilled Council of State lacking energy, power of action and the necessary will. It is wrong when he says that the previous government had a less powerful arrangement for renewable energy. Their options were green certificates, which would channel a lot more resources into this area. The energy message has now been cancelled and scrambled because internal disagreement in the government means that one does not come off the spot. The environmental movement, the energy industry and an overall opposition are now criticising the Government for stamina and paralysis in this important area. Does not the Council of State at all understand this massive criticism that is now being carried out with increasing weight?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e414	I have a great deal of understanding of the impatience of the environmental movement. I have no understanding of representatives of the previous government standing here and highlighting the efforts that were made at that time. The example of green certificates was highlighted. I have to admit that when this government took over the government offices, there was no scheme there for green certificates. There is something that has still been negotiated. There was no agreement in place about green certificates that meant that we have gone away from something that has been done by others. What has happened since then is a commitment to spending money on renewable energy. One would like to talk about the messages and the number of pages that Stortinget gets. My opinion is that what is needed is money to support projects. There's a lot more of it now than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e423	Ola T. Lånk – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e426	I think I heard the council say that he thinks we're getting green certificates in place. Here I don't think it benefits with faith or hope; I think we need something more than that. It was said here that investors escape the country. Why do they do that? I stand here with a clipping from the website of Norwea, which is a wind company, where it says that a company under Fred. Olsen ‘put up a billion loan to build wind farm in Scotland’ — a loan of DKK 3.2 billion. It has happened at a time when there is unrest also in the financial world. This shows that you're trying somewhere else because it doesn't work. It's shown to Enova; it's like the tool you have. But what if the tool doesn't work? I have to ask: when can we now get a clear signal from this government that there will be foreseeable framework conditions for the development of renewable energy production in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e435	There are foreseen framework conditions for the development of renewable energy production in Norway. We have a support system through Enova. It's quite correct that there's the answer to a lot of the questions that are asked here. It's because the government has chosen to channel significant sums of money into Enova, which, based on a professional assessment, is going to spend the money where they give the largest return to get new energy up and down. I find it difficult to see that this is a critical priority. So new projects are welcome, we see them coming. Then it is quite correct, as the representative Lånke and others have mentioned, that of the different sectors in which we are developing renewable efforts in Norway, there has been a delay. It's quite obvious. Many wind power projects are expensive. We see that it's been easier to realize, for example. heat projects and small-scale projects, and we see that countries with a significantly lower renewable share than Norway have gone further in providing explicit support for wind power projects. But once again, in relation to the objectives we have on the climate side, I find it difficult to see that [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e442	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e446	While the Left has been focusing on renewable energy production and energy efficiency, several government counterparts in the Council have long been engaged in building gas power plants in Norway. Jens Stoltenberg was the leading driver of the gas power plant at Kårstø. He set up a government to build that gas power plant. He was willing to set aside the pollution law to build that gas power plant, and enthusiasm still has in the government to give free allowances to this gas power plant, which contributes to pollution other places, even if it stands still. The gas power plant was opened last year. At the time, Minister of Industry Dag Terje Andersen was present, and he called this an important project for the power supply – the largest power development in Norway in 14 years, said the Minister of Industry. Erik Solheim, another member of the Council of State, stated that the gas power plant is a scandal, and one should consider dropping the clean-up at that plant. I see that the Minister of Oil and Energy is now also thinking that the plant should probably not be cleaned, contrary to what is promised in the Soria Moria Declaration. My question to the Council of State is: What is his position and that of the Government of the Gas Power Plant at Kårstø? What is the basic attitude of this plant to the work of the Government, both to the plant and to the purification process? Is it an important project for power supply in Norway, or is it a scandal that one should rely on not being in service?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e455	Natural power has a concession to operate the power plant, so the decision to operate it or not is a commercial decision taken by the owner. As to whether to enter and build sewage treatment plants, it is right, as the representative of Kvassheim says, that it is clearly defined in the Soria Moria declaration that a – and we will – want to clean emissions from Kårstø. Then that situation has emerged that, as the representative of Kvassheim correctly points out, it is in practice still on Kårstø now. That's why I've communicated to Stortinget, through St.prp. No 1 for 2008-2009 by the Ministry of Oil and Energy, that we need to make an assessment based on the operational situation of Kårstø when final investment decision on clean-up is taken. I think we should clean the discharges on Kårstø. If it's not emissions to clean, we have a challenge in that regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e460	Governments are entitled to keep the plant on Kårstø, like the Government's energy policy, at a standstill. But my question is: the basic attitude of the Government towards this must be either that of the Minister of the Environment, that there is a scandal that one should rely on not being in operation, or the basic attitude that the Minister of Industry had when he opened the plant and said that it is an important energy plant, an important plant for Norwegian power supply. If we take the last conclusion, it has to be obvious that it has to be cleaned. If one takes the first conclusion that one is based on the fact that the plant is not going to be in service, it is clear that cleaning is a problem. So here we need a clarification from the government in an area where you've already broken the Soria Moria promise that it's going to be purification by 2009. That's a good illustration of how poor quality was on the promises of the energy policy of the Soria Moria Declaration. My question is: is it a current problem to see the cleaning of the gas power plant at Kårstø in conjunction with the other emissions on the plant, and to get a complete solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e467	The last thing I've asked Gassco to look at, so we're dealing with different scenarios related to the cleaning of the large point emissions, among other things. on Kårstø. We have a lot of high point emissions in Norway that deserve attention and that could be beneficially cleaned. With regard to the description of the situation at Kårstø and the power plant now, there is no other than the one I have described to Stortinget in St.prp. No 1, where I say that one has to make an assessment based on the operational situation at Kårstø. I believe that it is a responsible and good position to have when we are going to make a final investment decision related to that project during 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e472	There will be follow-up questions – Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e475	The government's CO2 clean-up project at Kårstø is another example of how the government is skeptical about political decisions many years ago, although reality has changed and shows that the project is completely misplaced. There is no doubt that one could get much more back for the money if the CO2 cleaning had been scrapped at Kårstø, a gas power plant that is not in operation, and spent the money on environmental and energy measures elsewhere in Norway. This is what the Norwegian industry has said, and that is what the energy industry has said. Many scientists working on CO2 cleaning have agreed. The Progress Party and Greenpeace have joined forces to bring this about, but the government still chooses to spend hundreds of millions of dollars on the state budget year after year on a project that is unlikely to be, and should not be, realized. There are many alternative places where the money could have been spent in Norway, both in the Houses, in central Norway and elsewhere. Will the State Council order the transfer of the CO2 clean-up project on Kårstø?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e494	I believe that the concept of ‘dispute’ to solutions that do not have the right to life, or what Solvik-Olsen used, is quite on the side of what is communicated from me to Stortinget. As I said to the representative Kvassheim: I have said that we should take an assessment to look at the operational situation on Kårstø. That's to deal with the reality we're looking at Kårstø, when an investment decision might be made. When it comes to stopping all planning now, I think it'll be extremely stupid. What's the situation, is that we have an investigation work related to cleaning that we're about to end. We should finish that work. We shouldn't stop it on the rise page. When we come to the conclusions, we're going to evaluate where we're going to use it further. But the work is in progress with the aim of finding a solution to Kårstø. But as I said, we have a situation there now that is a little different than what it was when it was started.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e501	Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e504	In Møre and Romesdal, Industriekraft Møre has applied for a concession to a gas power plant to ensure satisfactory power supply to Middle Norway in the years to come. The power plant will be located in the most critical area in view of the power requirements in the rural part and in relation to a power-intensive industry dependent on a satisfactory power supply. Much suggests that the gas power plant in Fräna will have a better economic starting point than Kårstø and thus have better operational regulation. With storage options on the base outside of Møre and Romsdal, it will also be suitable for the capture and storage of CO2 as well as electrification of new fields on the base. If Gassco was to conclude in its forthcoming report that the operating regime on Kårstø would be too poor to defend investments in CO2 cleaning there, would the Council be able to assess a demonstration plant for CO2 management related to a gas power plant in Fränna in Møre and Romsdal?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e520	The matter of any gas power plant on the coast of Morre is an appeal in the department. I do not think it is right to go into an assessment related to this matter here in Stortinget now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e525	Line Henriette Holten Heimdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e529	I am not quite sure if it is particularly relevant whether a gas power plant is in place in 2008 or 2009, since the treatment plant is only in place in 2011-2012. But if we're going to put in place a CO2 capture and storage system, I think it must be political will for it, that it might be one of the most important driving forces. If we are also to develop technology in companies, there must be a market there, and that is the political decision that must contribute to the creation. My question to the Council of State will be: How will the Government follow up its political objectives, politically expressed individual statements and keep what it has promised, that there will be a full-scale sewage treatment plant on Kårstø as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e539	I now get the same question, but with completely different entrances, from the Left and Christian People's Party on one side and the Advance Party on the other. My answer is the same no matter what angle the question comes from. I want to get – that’s what I’ve said – a clean-up on Kårstø, but we need something to clean if we’re going to build a sewage treatment plant. That's why I've said what I said in St.prp. No 1, that we will evaluate the operational situation around it when making that decision. With regard to the rest of the reasoning for the representative, I fully agree. We need industrial projects in Norway related to cleaning, to build skills and to get a professional environment around it. The IEA itself has said that CCS can stand for up to 14 pst. of what is needed to reduce climate emissions in order to achieve the 2-degree target. Norway shall take its share of it. That is why I have also presented a proposal in Stortinget that amounts to NOK 2 billion this year in terms of action in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e548	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e551	It's been barely a year since the Stortinget worked on bombing to put in place a climate response setting, which gave a broad collection, a power concentration to bring about a new energy policy, for it needs Norway, and it needs the world. It was actually at the limit of a little enthusiasm in this room to get something exciting in the energy field. The Council of State has only had a few months in this chair, and time is required to take up a new field of expertise. But never has an energy minister had a greater chance of getting something done and getting a clearer mission and a greater commitment to a new energy policy mission. An overall increase, the environmental movement, yes, most people require Norway to use this opportunity to achieve it. But it's screaming for political leadership. Energy policy requires management. I think this round in the Questionnaire has shown that we have not yet received it. Does the Council of State have any ambitions to use its last months as an energy minister to take this management that Norway needs and calls for?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e560	With regard to what is expected from Norway outside — and at least in the meetings I have with colleagues from other countries — Norway is expected to take responsibility in one area in particular, and it is at CCS, i.e. cleaning technology and doing something to address climate issues against fossil energy. There, Norway and the Government take exactly that leadership. We spend $2 billion on it in 2009, if the budget is adopted. We have a project in Mongstad that is interesting in a global context. I have not met one energy politician from other countries who does not relate to what Norway is doing to Mongstad and just the leadership up against the 14 pst. as the IEA says to be taken on the climate side, up towards CCS and up towards purification. So leadership is necessary, and the government takes it – yes!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e567	We go to the next main question – Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e570	Norwegian industry, industry and households have enjoyed an efficient and visionary energy policy from decades back. The development of hydropower ensures good access to reasonable and, in particular, environmentally friendly energy. For industry, which represented a large proportion of the expansions, it provided a competitive advantage on the global market. We have developed a large, value-creating and export-oriented metal production, which is both energy-efficient and environmentally friendly from a global perspective, but for households it provided wealth and comfort for a money that everyone could afford. In Europe, however, much of the power generation is based on coal. They now have an additional cost based on the introduction of a CO2 quota regime. This extra cost raises energy prices in Europe, and we see that the EU is now concerned about what it means to the competitiveness of industry. At the Bioenergy Conference in Skien last week, the Minister of Energy expressed the hope that the CO2 quota prices would rise to between 500 and 600 kroner per year. tonnes. It'll give a flow rate of between 30 and 50 cents per. kWh. Increased interconnection to the power market in Europe also means that this level of price increases above Norway. It enriches power companies in Norway at the expense of just industry and households. Industry is now very much afraid of its future by increasing their cost levels and by the fact that the industrial and metal companies they are competing with are largely outside Europe, where they do not receive these costs. Politically, this trend can be counteracted by reducing electricity taxes, which will improve the situation of households, and by introducing an industrial power regime for industry. Will the Council of State work in that direction, so that we can ensure that clean Norwegian hydropower actually provides an advantage to Norwegian power customers?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e587	With regard to the specific issue of industrial power, I have presented an approach to this issue in connection with the submission of the State budget, where we take the industry's input seriously in relation to working for a solution in Norway in line with, among other things, that. France has chosen. With regard to the evolution of the future energy price and the quota price associated with it, there is probably some inexhaustible thing that Solvik-Olsen's representative came in here from the Bioenergy Conference in Skien. What I did there was referencing from the talk I had heard earlier that day from the IEA, which outlines it as a likely scenario. The consequence of that is, as the representative says, a higher energy price than today. I note that the Progress Party is concerned about allowing the market to deal with climate issues. There's two ways to deal with this. One is that the market arranges it, and then the renewable certificates are part of it, the allowances scheme is another part. The second is to spend more on the support page. What I now see as an orientation from the Progress Party is a concern about using the market mechanisms. I don't think we have a chance of solving climate problems if we don't get an efficient market that prices energy at the right level in relation to environmental costs, and that it's going to be very difficult in a European and also global context to solve climate problems only through budgetary appropriations in individual countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e603	As an economist, I can draw the attention of the Council of State to the fact that the electricity charge imposed by the Stortinget is not a market-based scheme that the market itself has introduced. The problem is that when part of a market introduces political restrictions into a CO2 quota regime that other parts of the market against which a competitor does not do, it is necessary to ensure that the players competing in both markets have a level playing field. If not, the consequence of the policy proposed by the Council of State will be that one shifts metal production out of Europe and to those countries that do not have the cost. With regard to the electricity charge, which was also part of the issue but was not affected, it is true that when the country owns almost all of the hydropower production in Norway and will receive the increased revenue from the higher electricity price, the electricity charge will be able to reduce the burden on electricity customers without taking away the market mechanism from where an investor invests. Renewable energy will be boosted by higher electricity prices, but costs will not be reduced to the same extent to consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e613	In order to answer the question of the electricity tax in a short and precise way, the Government's proposals for the 2009 government budget are well known. There is no proposal there to reduce the electricity charge, nor are we working on any similar proposal other than the ordinary budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e619	The President will allow two follow-up questions, first Peter Skovholt Gitmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e622	The problem in the power market in general, and renewables in particular, is that we see Norwegian companies choosing to produce outside and not at home, because the framework conditions at home are too bad. A single moment of it we see within small force. I saw with my own eyes yesterday, in Sirdal, one of Norway's largest and one of Norway's most beautiful small power plants. The greatest could be both larger and better. The problem is that the basic interest rate tax as it is in Norway will decrease at 5.5 MW and for the whole plant. In other words, it would be more profitable to expand the builder plant by 5.5 MW, instead of 8 MW, which was the potential. The second is that the NVE process time is now several years, and the Right has followed up through proposals in the UK to bring it down considerably. And the last moment is in relation to the state and the extreme exercise of power of statesmen all over the country has in terms of depriving local authorities and NVE of the possibility of more force. Does the Council of State not see that it is good policy to increase small power?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e633	Yes, I definitely do. The coincidences were that the representative of Skovholt Gitmark and the undersigned were in the same area yesterday. I was also in Sirdal, and I heard a little different message than what came from the representative here about what is happening on the energy side related to water in this area. Those who are behind the Sira-Kvina project are seeing many good and sensible upgrading and development measures related to the ordinary Sira-Kvina development, which means that we are going to gain more power from that sector and from that area. With regard to what I hear more from the Right speaking here today, the problem of being out of Norwegian energy companies, I just have to admit that I am a little surprised at that criticism. I think it is good that Norwegian companies contribute to reducing emissions and improving the climate situation in the world. And if so, for example, it will be invested. in wind power projects on the other side of the border between Norway and England, I believe is of secondary importance. The important thing now is to get the good projects up, and we also see that happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e640	Gunnar Kvassheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e643	In energy policy, all are possible, and – I would say very much – impossible views are represented in the Government and in the government parties. That's obviously the main reason why the energy message is out of the question. One also sees that there are very different perceptions of government parties in terms of price policy, which was the theme of Solvik-Olsen’s questions. Here, the points of view are broken in all directions. The centre party Ola Borten Moe will go to work drastically, he's told. He'll cut the cables to the rest of the world, and come back to politically controlled prices. Is this a view shared by the Council of State? Does he agree with his party colleague? Or does he agree with the Left that linking to the European electricity market is good environmental policy and good resource use?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e648	Firstly, I fully agree with the representative Ola Borten Moe that the most important thing in the energy sector in Norway is to ensure stable and secure access to energy for the Norwegian people and the Norwegian business community. This is why it is important that we work on the development of the network, emergency issues and, for example, the development of the network. The Middle Norway problem, which is a major challenge in the domestic situation. It's case no. 1st@item: inlistbox If we're going to go on the new, big energy projects, exemplified by offshore wind, it's quite obvious that we're talking about an energy potential that goes far beyond what can be used sensibly in Norway. So taking the big steps forward, I don't think it's possible without simultaneously looking at cooperation between Norway and other European countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e655	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e658	I suppose the Health Minister is now rested and ready for a comeback! Emergency medicine has improved and improved in Norway, and we are saving more and more lives after traffic accidents, heart attacks and strokes. But when the blue lights are turned off, there are a lot of patients being forgotten. Due to a lack of rehabilitation, there are, among other things, traffic damage to young people that it is pure Lotto that they are placed in a training establishment in order to be able to master everyday life. Therese of 26 years, which was seriously damaged in a traffic accident, was among the 50 pst. who did not receive a training offer. She ended up in a nursing home with her 96-year-old grandmother. Only after years of fighting by her parents did she have a rehabilitation stay in Denmark. In the 2005 election campaign, then health policy spokesman Bjarne Håkon Hanssen promised that the next major health policy effort would be rehabilitation. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the government promises rehabilitation to everyone who needs it. The fasite after three years is that it is cut in private training institutions with 53,700 treatment days. There is not one penny in bet on the rehabilitation area. The health clinic in Asker provides a rehabilitation facility for the group that tops the health leave and disability statistics, patients with muscle and skeletal disorders and mild mental disorders. The clinic needs to reduce its offer instead of increasing it. The right has proposed a stepping-up plan for rehabilitation. The parties to the Government voted against. 40 patient organisations have demonstrated against the Government's commitment to rehabilitation. My question is: what is the reason why a government that has historic opportunities both through its majority and through the greatest government budget of the time will not give priority to a rehabilitation offer that will be a good social investment and give people a better daily life?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e673	I disagree with the representative for Wage that we do not give priority to the rehabilitation field. I am because there is no doubt that when we get to the state budget we get to a total economy in the specialist health service and community health service that means that we will get significantly more services and services also within the rehabilitation field. It is not certain that everyone will come right where the representative Wage would want them to come. Among other things, there has been a significant build-up of the rehabilitation activities of healthcare companies, and I think that is right. We need private entries in the rehabilitation field, but it is too bad that we have not had rehabilitation services at Norwegian hospitals. That's why we've now used resources to build it up. I believe that what the representative on the pay side is dealing with is exactly what we are now working on in the interaction reform. The examples used by the representative for the payroll are patients who get a good emergency service, as wages themselves say. When they come to the hospital, they get a good emergency medical offer, they are repaired in proportion to the damage an accident may have caused to them. But then it can fail in the transition from hospital to rehabilitation. What we see in Health-Norway is that there's too much of that we can't do to get a complete patient history. The health sector alone works well, but collectively, and not least towards those patients who are just dependent on an overall, holistic course of patients, we are too poor. It is the whole motivation to say that we need to get a health sector with a greater focus on legal and economic systems that ensure interaction, especially for those patients who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e680	I thank you for your answer. The problem with public-sector construction is that rehabilitation sites usually become three to four times more expensive, i.e. one-third or one-fourth of the money is left for the money you would have obtained by using the established capacity of professionally good institutions. The Committee has carried out budget consultations, and we have held most rehabilitation organisations. Not one of these organisations has been able to identify in the draft budget of what the Council of State calls a priority for rehabilitation. I think they would appreciate the Council's guidance in finding out where in the budget there are traces of such a priority. Finally, I would warn the Council of State not to resort to the habit of answering all the questions by referring to April next year. It can create a significant height of fall, and it can be of the less fortunate forms of April ghosts!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e691	Yes, I think I'll try to be careful to steer away from April 1st when I'm going to put this forward, and I thank you in and off for the advice. It is true that there are other issues in the health sector than just interaction, but as far as the topic of pay is concerned, i.e. lack of coherence – from the medical treatment has been completed in a hospital, to those patients who need it, being offered rehabilitation – it is a very important part of the project we are now working on. Then there are other issues that should be answered differently than referring to the interaction reform. If the representative, Mr Wohnning, reads the State budget, he will see that we have now made sure that health businesses in Norway have the financial budget of the times. So we are now working on the mission document, and within the financial framework that healthcare companies have now received, they will have a very clear lead from the Minister of Health that some of the growth that has now been achieved in the budgets will lead to a strengthened offer in the rehabilitation field.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e701	The President will allow two follow-up questions – first Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e704	The health system consists of many different components. In the past, we have had questions relating to 10,000 new annual shifts in the care sector. We have what's going to happen on the nursing homes, and not least what we're going to look at on the rehabilitation page. I also fully agree with the Council of States, and I look forward to doing something about the interaction, because then we can do something with the whole of it and with the payment system and the funding system. However, there is at least one area where the Council of State can intervene without having to refer to the interaction reform, and the tendering criteria and the length of tenders within which private individuals should be able to work. There it is possible – as we have seen in the agreement of the Norwegian Air ambulance – to give a tendering period of 6+2 +2 years, so that predictability can be achieved. Will the Council of State ensure that health establishments provide more predictable frameworks for rehabilitation institutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e713	Believe it or not, but here I actually very much agree with the representative Harald Tom Nesvik. I think that Nesvik here points to something that is too bad, namely the way we organize contract relationships between regional health companies and different providers in different fields. It's about rehabilitation, but it's also about private hospitals, which I think Nesvik is engaged in. This is true in relation to the drug sector — i.e. in many areas. I'm going to meet the directors and directors of the regional health companies this week, and then the main message from me to them is that we have to get better compared to the way we make contracts. Firstly, we cannot have different contractual conditions between different health regions, and we cannot handle one sector in one way and another sector in a completely different way. So I'm now starting a work towards becoming a much more predictable contract party for important cooperation actors in Health-Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e720	Laila Bavøy - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e723	I also have a small proposal that can be resolved if the Minister of Health takes the initiative. The other day, we were told that too many rubrics here in Oslo are rehabilitation and after protection, something they see little or nothing. If they're so lucky to have a detoxification site here in the Health South-East, there's no automatic way they'll get a rehabilitation site afterwards, and a lot of people will be put on a waiting list. There the waiting time goes up, and we know that today it's 65 days on average in Health South-East. What are these spaces going to do? Several times, the Christian People's Party has proposed that the rights spaces within the drug should be given the right to a place immediately after detoxification, pending further treatment. They might also be able to get some treatment there. And there's free capacity, not least in the ideal drug institutions here in this area. Why can the Minister of Health not take such a step and simply order health care businesses to give ruspacers a free space, rather than being on a waiting list and perhaps falling out again?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e734	It is a large and comprehensive question the representative Davøy now addresses, and I have one minute to answer. But what's my starting point is that I think the most important thing in the drug field is that we've had a failure on all sides. That's why I think there's a lot of cross-political consensus that the drug field is a field that we have to promise in the years to come. Then it's primarily about, including there, getting a complete patient history. One can always discuss the capacity of drug organisations, but the big problem in today’s Rus-Norway is that when you’re done with drug treatment in a drug institution, you get into an often non-existent municipal system. Then it goes three or four days, then you crack, and then it's on the left. It can't be a goal to get the most through a 24-hour facility, and then you crack after you're done there. You have to get more complete sequences in place. It's demanding to prioritize like this, but I think it's absolutely necessary that we do it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e739	The oral question time is now over, and we're going to the ordinary question hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e745	There will be some changes in the set list of questions, and the President will show them in the context of the list that has been distributed to the representatives. The President proposed that the proposed changes in today's Question Time be approved. The President sees it as a matter of fact. The changes were as follows: Question 6, from the representative Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve to the Minister for Research and Higher Education, will be answered by the Minister for Finance on behalf of the Minister for Research and Higher Education, who has left. Following a request from the Minister of Finance, this question is moved and answered in response to question 2, which is to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 17, from the representative of Gunnar Gundersen to the Minister of Knowledge, will be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e759	My question to the Minister of Finance is this: ‘Guidelines for the choice of charging zone’ exempt so-called ‘ambulatory’ activities so that the employer’s fee rate follows the address of the main unit. However, in the case of workers who are constantly outpatients in other zones, it shall be charged in the charging area in which the worker is located at all times. This rule is practically not feasible for small and medium-sized enterprises with ordinary data tools. What can the Council of State do to simplify this legislation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e768	Following close dialogue with the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, Norway notified a new regionally differentiated employer fee scheme for the period 2007 to 2013. The ESA approved the scheme, as it is compatible with the guidelines of the European Commission and ESA on regional aid for that period. These guidelines provide for the use of differentiated employer charges in sparsely populated areas, if necessary to prevent persistent population decline in the areas concerned. Differentiated employer’s fee is a precise regional instrument aimed at employment and housing in the districts. According to the ESA guidelines, aid may only be granted to activities in municipalities within the geographical scope. Employers’ contributions are usually paid at the rate of the zone in which the employer operates. The employer is considered to be operating in the municipality in which the enterprise is registered, possibly registered with a subsidiary. For some types of so-called ambulatory activity, specific rules on zone association have been laid down. If the worker carries out the majority of his work in a zone other than that in which the employer is registered, the rate shall be applied in the zone where the work is carried out. The «major part» of the work means more than 50 pst. of the total number of working days completed by the employee for the employer during the charging period. So it becomes the place where a dominant part of the work actually takes place, which becomes the determining factor for the zone connection. The current provisions are therefore, in principle, well-founded. If the ambulance is so divided that none of the places of work meets the 50 pst requirement, the general rule on zone location where the employer is registered falls. It is therefore necessary to distinguish between cases where the employee has had such a dominant job during each two-month period and cases where the employee has not had it. I agree that in certain situations this can be problematic to manage when workers carry out work in different zones. However, most outpatient employers would normally have a self-interest in keeping track of where employees have their shifting jobs over a period of time. It is difficult to see alternatives to the current system which is simpler to manage and which at the same time ensures a link with the site where the work has taken place. Changes here will easily conflict with the guidelines set out for this overall good scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e783	I thank you for the answer, and I knew of course some of the details from before. What I have not fully understood either by the answer or by examining this in any other way is whether the exemption for ambulatory activities, i.e. when moving on crews to areas with, for example, higher charges, are also part of what we have committed ourselves to in relation to ESA. I know of the discussion about a differentiated employer's fee, and I know why this must be the way it is. But I have a little bit of difficulty in understanding that the exception that we have introduced is also part of it. If that's the case, I'd like a confirmation of that, either now or on an appropriate occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e790	After all, we had a very extensive dialogue with the EU, with EFTA and with ESA in order to put in place a system that was as similar as possible to the system of differentiated employer charges that Norway had and that should not conflict with EU legislation on regional aid. In this context — and this is no big surprise — there were many individual details that were to be put in place, and there was considerable work in all the individual details to get this practical for Norwegian working life. Just how this exception is formally allowed, I dare not say on the standing foot. But taking up different elements of the consensus that we finally came to to secure this system, I think it's problematic given that it's going to be equally practical in the future – and also that we're not questioning other things. But I can look into the matter a little further for the Fleet, and then we might take a written passion about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e797	I agree with the finance minister's comments on this, if that is so that this particular exception is part of the overall agreement. But if it is that this exception is an exception that we have made in our legislation, and that had nothing to do with the overall agreed solution with ESA, I think you should look at it. I allow myself to say that I have now perceived the Council of State to that it is willing to do if – I should not say that this was something we invented – it was appropriate then. Maybe it could change without saying anything about our international obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e802	I think I should be very careful to give the representative fleet hopes at this point, because an important part of the discussions between ESA and Norway in order to get this in place, was about how to relate to the issue of employers' fees, and whether that was the place where the employer held, which was the starting point. It was a big and very thorough round that finally ended with that kind of conclusion. Then we will address the issue that the representative asks about, namely how to deal with the issue of outpatient workers. And it's found a solution. I'm going to look at the formal conditions around just how this exception is allowed. But I want to be very careful about starting to take up parts of the package we finally managed to agree on, because we managed to maintain the main device in relation to a differentiated employer's fee.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e812	My question is as follows: ‘The undersigned has been contacted by a dubious lone mother, residing in the Nord-Trøndelag. In 1996 she had a daughter with a heart problem. Jenta was mistreated by the hospital for 18 months, which resulted in life-long damage, and formed the basis for compensation from the public. The amount of compensation is managed naturally enough by the head office. The problem is that the mother has to pay a property tax on the money that the daughter has received, and the head office pays the mother's tax on the amount of compensation. Does the Council of State consider this to be fair?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e821	At first, I want to say that I am pleased that Robert Eriksson has addressed this question, because it turns out that there has been some confusion about how the rules were to be practised. People who have experienced these kinds of situations often have big enough challenges in their lives if they are not to have to spend time in addition to getting involved in tax rules that are clear to the point but are practiced differently. So my main answer is that this is what I'm going to do with the tax rate, so that we make sure we get an equal practice, a practice that is equal to dealing with. People in this situation have more than enough to strangle with as it is. Just to go through a little bit about how the legislation is, this is as follows: Compensation for treatment costs and losses in future acquisitions is generally tax-free upon receipt. However, not least for young victims, replacement capital shall be managed and yield for a year in order to provide the best possible coverage. As a result, this issue of property taxes on capital and income taxes arises from the return on income during this long management period. There are rules to ease the taxation of certain age groups also at the administrative level of their compensation. This has been done precisely because the situation is difficult for these families. In addition, the rules on compensation measurement shall also take into account the assumed tax burden after the compensation payment. One-off compensation for personal injury as measured under the Law on Compensation for Damage Chapter 3 is exempt from property taxes up to and including the age of 21 when the personal injury has led to at least 50 pst. reduced acquisition capacity. This exemption also includes one-off compensation, which is based on its liability under the Patient Injury Act of 15 June 2001 No. Fifty-three. According to the Patient Injury Act, the amount of compensation shall be measured in accordance with the Damage Compensation Act. There is no reason to treat one-off compensation on a liability basis under the Patient Damage Act differently from other compensation payments as measured under the Damage Compensation Act. It might seem that this question has been dealt with differently around different Equations Offices, and that's the background for me to address this and clarify how this is to be understood. The general rule in the Tax Act is that children and parents are compared up to the age of 16. However, the property and income of the one-off compensation for personal injury under Chapter 3 of the Law on Compensation for Damage may be similar to that of the child. It ensures that the injured person, regardless of his age, receives his or her own amount free of charge in the event of an equation of wealth and a deduction of his or her own person in the event of an equation of income. This rule applies regardless of the degree of impairment in the child’s ability to acquire. As of the age of 22, the normal property tax liability of the managed replacement capital arises. The return on fixed capital is generally taxable capital income also for minor victims. In view of this tax liability, the rules on measuring the amount of compensation take into account the assumed future tax burden during the management period. This assumed tax burden, so-called tax relief, increases the amount of compensation. It is necessary for the injured party to receive full compensation in the form of a lump sum. This is established by the Supreme Court. With regard to the specific case of the representative Eriksson, I cannot of course go directly into that matter. But as I have been explained and seen it, there is no doubt that this is a damage that has led to more than 50 pst. disability, or reduced ability to acquire. I would encourage the parents in this situation to contact the tax office, and then I would like to make sure that the tax authorities are also informed about how this law is to be understood.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e842	I would like to thank you for your answer. I am very pleased that the Minister of Finance is so clear in his answer, and that she will clarify this to the authorities of the equation. I record that the Council of State says in its reply that the tax rules are clear, but there is a little different practice in interpreting. The question can always be asked: How clear are the tax rules when they lead to different interpretations around the different EQs? This specific case concerns a girl who has a disability of over 50 p.m., so this will come under these tax rules, as pointed out by the Council of State in its reply. My follow-up question will then be: Will the Council of State clarify the interpretation and how this should be, in regulation? Or does she just want to send out a circular to the authorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e853	I don't think the essential thing is what kind of form this gets. I think the important thing is that the law is really pretty clear to understand. An answer in a Question Time is a very effective message, but we will of course ensure that the tax authorities are informed about how the law is to be understood, also in the form of a formal enquiry.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e858	It is also true that, unfortunately, very many have come into a situation where the head office manages their wealth. This could be e.g. children of divorced parents who have lost one of their parents, who are paid out an insurance sum which is also managed by the head office if it has a size which means that it is above the requirements set. Also in these cases – as I understand it – the insurance sum is subject to taxes on wealth. Will the Council of State make a careful assessment of all taxes on wealth that lie below the head office, and look at the possibility of eliminating taxes on wealth managed by the head office during the period administered by the head office?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e863	The dilemma in the question now raised by the representative, Eriksson, is that the Supreme Court has clarified that the amount of claims related to the Patient Injury Act should also take into account the nature of the tax liability for the compensation sum in the future. That's the background for there's a little bit of different rules here. If you look at that kind of issue, it may matter what kind of compensation measure the individual victim receives. Then, of course, it's not that important for the individual who is entitled to compensation, whether you get the money in one way or another. I can go through the legislation here, but I don't think we're supposed to make any significant changes now that will give you a new practice on what kind of measurement of the compensation amounts you're going to have. There is now a practice of taking into account the nature of the tax obligations that are imposed both in the case of property taxes and in the case of income taxes in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e870	Then we go to question 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e877	This question, from the representative Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve to the Minister of Research and Higher Exploitation, will be answered by the Minister of Finance on behalf of the Minister of Research and Higher Exploitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e880	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Council of State: «The secondary school in Ålesund had to complete further training in the care of cancer due to a lack of state support. On 19 June the undersigned sent questions to the Tora Aasland State Council on the matter, which gave the following reply: The Ministry of Knowledge has allocated the funds available for higher education to the budget of the year. Any changes need to be addressed in the context of the treatment of the 2009 State budget. What is the reason why the Council of State has not given priority to cancer at the University of Ålesund in the budget of the year?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e889	Continuing training in the care of cancer is one of the former in-house continuing training courses in the field of health. These continuing training courses were funded as training courses, partly by health enterprises, partly by municipalities and partly by tuition fees. From 2007 onwards, further training funded by health enterprises was included in the framework of higher education institutions. A total of 65 million. kr for the purpose transferred from the Ministry of Health and Welfare to the Ministry of Finance. Further training with other funding, such as: continuing training in the care of cancer at the Ålesund High School was not included in this transfer, nor was it included in the framework of universities and colleges. The transfer of funds for further training in the field of health from the Ministry of Health and Welfare to the Ministry of Knowledge from the 2007 budget year was a purely technical transfer and no changes were made to the training to be financed from the State budget in connection with this transfer. This was explained by the State Council of Aasland in its reply of 25 June this year to written questions from the representative of Røbekk Nørve. For 2009, the Government of the draft budget for higher education has prioritised a general strengthening of the sector, inter alia by: an increase in the basic appropriations for universities and higher education. If this proposal is adopted, the University of Ålesund will have its share of this initiative. A small number of new places of study for general and pre-school education have been proposed in the 2009 budget, but no changes have been proposed in other disciplines.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e902	I thank you for your answer. The Ålesund University started offering further training in cancer care in 2004. The education, which was the only one in its battle between Trondheim and Stavanger, was terminated in the spring of 2008, because the Ålesund University did not receive state support for operations on the same lines as other universities in the country. This means that each student had to pay a tuition fee of NOK 85 000, which made it very difficult for the university to compete for students. Does the Council of State really believe it is fair that nurses who have their working day at the cancer ward in Ålesund should have to go to Trondheim or Stavanger to acquire specialist training in cancer care, when there is too little money to count from the State, can a similar good education be given in the neighbourhood to the cancer ward at the hospital in Ålesund?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e911	I'm sorry I'm not in all of these details. Of course, I would like to pass on to the Council of State Aasland the follow-up questions that the representative Røbekk Nørve has. But as I understand the situation, these are places of study previously funded outside higher education and university education, and in integrating other education into the higher education and university system, this was not taken into account. That's why it's the history behind it, that's the background to the creation of this, and the background to the funding, which is now creating that challenge for the Ålesund High School. I'm taking with me the additional questions that the representative Røbekk Nørve is now asking, and I'm going to bring them up with the Council of State Aasland.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e918	It's regrettable that we've had these challenges. The right-hand side has added 1 million. kr for the creation of new cancer studies from the autumn of 2009 because we believe that the new cancer department will require continuous good competence to offer patients in our region as good treatment as in the rest of the country. We know that student mobility very often also means mobility of competences. Does the Council of State believe that the population of Moors and Romesdal does not deserve access to skills as well as that of the population and patients in the rest of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e925	The people of More and Romesdal deserve the best, in line with everyone in Norway – in all states and in all municipalities, I think we can add as well. To a large extent, health enterprises want to have training capacity in different sectors, for example: this one, which is the governing body for the financing of this offer. I will take with me the questions that the representative of Røbekk Nørve has, because this is very much about how to control competence and capacity against the health care system.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e934	Then we go back to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e940	‘Now it is almost 2 years since the Halhjem-Sandvikvåg connection got fast-paced gas ferries. The expectations of a new era were great. Unfortunately, disappointment has been even greater. Travelers, both private and business, are in despair of lack of regularity. The main reason for this is that the C ferries are too often out of traffic. What will the Council of State do to fulfil the intentions that fast-moving gas ferries in this connection meet the expectations and requirements?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e947	The government is busy having a good infrastructure throughout the country. In many parts of the country, this also means a good ferry service. I have the same thing as the questioner an exposure to E39. On the route Stavanger-Bergen there is a lot of traffic, and it is important with good capacity and good frequency both on the route Arsvågen-Mortavika and on the route Halhjem-Sandvikvåg. The Halhjem-Sandvikvåg and Mortavika-Arsvågen ferries were competing in 2004, and the contract was concluded with Fjord1 in December of the same year. The contract is based on the fact that the Halhjem-Sandvikvåg ferry connection is operated by three gas ferries and half-hourly departures. The gas journeys are faster than traditional ferries. The higher the speed, the half-hourly timetable can be completed by three ferries. The entry into service of gas ferries in 2007 resulted in the capacity of Halhjem-Sandvikvåg to double at the most busy times of the day. Since the capacity of Halhjem-Sandvikvåg is so high, the contract states that the third ferry on the Halhjem-Sandvikvåg link should be a spare ferry for all gas ferries connected to Halhjem-Sandvikvåg and Mortavika-Arsvågen. The state road service is responsible for the ferry supply. The carrier has the operator’s responsibility, which consists in performing the mission ordered and purchased by the State Road Service by way of a call for competition, concluded in the contract. The operator has so far provided services within the contract with a good margin. By the end of October, there were 17 whole days of cancelled C departures, or 0.18 pst. cancelled trips in relation to the carried out. In relation to the contract, C-feria may be out of 47 days in 2008 provided that the other two gas ferries are able to run out of traffic. By the end of October, it was 0.03 pst. standing vehicle in relation to the carriage of a vehicle. The implementation of the timetable by three ferries presents us with challenges when ferries are going to the workshop. As mentioned earlier, the capacity of Halhjem-Sandvikvåg is so high that the State Road Administration has decided that the third ferry in the connection should be a spare ferry for all gas ferries in the Halhjem-Sandvikvåg and Mortavika-Arsvågen connections. The operator is only responsible for setting in reserve when the other two gas journeys are unable to escape traffic in Halhjem-Sandvikvåg. We don't have that situation today, because there's very little running gear left, even when the connection is operated by two ferries. The gas journeys have the right speed than traditional ferries, and there is no reserve ferry available at high speed to perform the C-tours according to schedule configuration. The road authority has established a timetable for the use of conventional ferry as a replacement for the third gas journey when it is out of service. This timetable is not satisfactory because there is no reserve ferry available at high speed to perform the C tours, as mentioned. Route plan using traditional reserve ferry can replace six out of nine C-tours, but with a very limping timetable. The state Road Service has already seen a job in which they look at how they can increase the capacity of Mortavika-Arsvågen in the short term. Traffic has increased a lot here, and if this trend continues, we will have a capacity problem. Where appropriate, this will depend on the future development of traffic. In this work, the State Road Service also looks at solutions that lead to more stable operation of the C-departments on the Halhjem-Sandvikvåg link. I hope that this work can be completed in the new year. When any action can be taken, it is uncertain. I would like to ask the Swedish Road Administration to intensify this work, and I will follow this matter further.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e964	I thank you for the last time that the Council of State will intensify the work. At the same time, I am a little worried when she puts so much emphasis on the fact that the capacity is large enough, and that there are no remaining cars. That is so correct. But there are three elements that are important here. One thing is capacity. The second is regularity, i.e. half-hour leave. The third is velocity. When it comes to capacity, he's good enough. The speed is in the border of what was promised. But when it comes to regularity, the actual conditions are that the C-ferries are so often out of operation that when people are going to travel, they look at the booklet, and C-ferry puts them across. They don't count on the C-ferries, because it doesn't matter if you bring the ferry when it leaves, if the plane is gone, or the meeting is over when you arrive. It doesn't help with capacity when it's regularity that's the main problem, and it's stressful people.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e969	I am fully aware that there are problems when the ferry is set, as a reviewer. Nevertheless, we have to look up this connection to other connections where we also have capacity problems, and there is a big problem with attaching. Then it is also relevant to look at how many days one has cancelled the C departure first and foremost. So it's 0.18 pst. in relation to the journeys carried out. There can't be a large percentage. In relation to the contract that has been concluded, there is a large margin. I thought it was important to stress this, because I have registered in the press that the company has received a lot of criticism. That criticism must be addressed against the contract and the standards laid down by the State Road Administration, and not against the company, which is to carry out so far as they can, with good margin.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e974	But the reality is that people's experiences don't count on the C-ferries. Then we have a problem. People are frustrated by this. But they are even more frustrated when they take it up, through the media, through political bodies, through business associations, NHO, etc., and meet a top-down stop from both the company that runs the connection, and from the state road network. I will take a few examples: in Bergensavisen on 18 November, the manager of fjord 1: ‘We are getting used to the mass.’ A few days later, a representative of the State Road Administration says to the same newspaper: ‘What many may not have received is that the C-departures are not guaranteed.’ This is what people know. The problem is that one doesn't trust the C exit, and ignores it. When one is also met with arrogance and a top-down hold, frustration is quite great.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e989	What's important to emphasize from my side is that we don't have a top-down hold or an arrogant hold to the problem. I understand that people get frustrated. I think it's important that people get the necessary information. In addition to the work that is going on to get a more stable C-departure, it is also important that we look at how we can get better information to people. What I want to discuss with the State Road Service is whether it is possible to get a better information work. I think this is also a little bit about it being possible for people to know what days this ferry is out of operation, and that one can plan a little bit better than one might have done in relation to information in a good way, so that people can trust that when they haven't got this information, the ferry should go. I'm also going to promise the representative to take that up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e999	I want to ask you the following questions: ‘The size has decided to re-enter the sleeping car in Kristiansand. For a period of time during which sufficient sleeping-car material may be provided, the decision of the Stortinge may be carried out by inserting spare-car capacity, or transferring one of the vehicles currently operating in Stavanger to Kristiansand. Has this been assessed, and what will the cost estimate of such implementation be?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1008	The NSB has informed that the company does not have available materials that can be used as own sleeping cars to and from Kristiansand. Re-disposal of sleeping wagons from the Stavanger-Oslo route will mean that two out of four wagons will no longer operate this route, but will only run the Kristiansand-Oslo route. This will mean that the sleeping car capacity is halved to and from Rogaland in relation to today. 90-95 pst. sleeper ice on the southern runway is up to and including Rogaland, while only 5-10 pst. is to and from Kristiansand. So today there are 65 trips per trip. Departures to and from Rogaland and four trips per year. departure to and from Kristiansand. The NSB has calculated the effects such a conversion of the sleeping-car equipment could have on the number of sleeping-berths along the Südlandsbana, and has assessed that the number of sleeping-berths will be reduced by about 6,440 years, even if one assumes that sleeping-berths to and from Kristiansand will increase marked with own sleeping-cars. Increase public purchase rates per year years will amount to about 4 to 6 million. kr, mainly as a result of lost ticket revenue. In addition to a likely significant decrease in the number of travellers, the conversion will require increased manning due to shifting and maintenance. The current schedule also needs to be adjusted as shift operation will require more time in Kristiansand and hence can be implemented as a matter of time from the June 2009 sub-schedule. Therefore, on the basis of an overall assessment, I cannot recommend a solution with the transfer of wagons from Stavanger.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1021	As is known, the government apparatus is the executive authority of Norway. The size is legislative and granting authority. In this case, the cancellation has both granted and made a decision. Does the Council of State feel that it is her duty to work for a decision to be taken in the framework of the Great Britain? Or is the Council of State of the opinion that when she thinks the Stortinget has made the wrong decision, she can train, postpone, increase costs, so that the decision is not implemented? What I see in the answer to the government council is that a user number that a person really wants to use. So the big thing has decided that it should be a sleeping car from Kristiansand. The Ministry of Transport has given priority to having two sleeping cars from Stavanger. But it is therefore the decision of the Storting to be followed up, and not the priorities of the Ministry of Transport in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1028	I will again take a great deal of distance from the reality description that the representative shows. It hasn't been, it's not and it won't be a training session. Yes, the Stortinget has made a decision, but within the framework of the Stortinget decision, it is impossible to create a sleeping car offer for Kristiansand. My State Secretary on my behalf has informed the Stortinget about that. Nevertheless, we have had a lot of pressure on the work on this matter. We have total dangers throughout the European market. We've had external consultants in there to guarantee the quality of NSB's numbers and their – as the representative will call it – claims. I can't believe, with the stop Stortinget has to the railway, that one will reduce a supply in Stavanger that works. I assume that the intention was for more people to travel by train, including from Kristiansand.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1035	The reason I asked the previous question was first of all a letter sent by the Ministry of Transport on 4 May 2006 to the Vest-Agder Arbeiderparti. Here, both the Centre Party, SV, the Workers' Party and the County Municipality have pointed out the need for a sleeping car in Kristiansand. That's also why we in the previous question hour were up to a sum of 100 million. kr to get a sleeping car to Kristiansand – if one reads VG the next day. Now the government council is down to a minimum of four million. kr, and it shows that if there is some will, you can also reduce the costs. So I ask the Council of State again if she will take further steps to get a sleeping car to Kristiansand, so that the decision of the Storting will be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1040	On average, three customers benefit from the sleeping car offer from Kristiansand to Oslo and a passenger offered from Oslo to Kristiansand pr. 24 hours. The introduction of a private sleeping car in Kristiansand corresponds to an increase in purchase requirements of between 10 and 14 million. NOK – i.e. the state permits between NOK 7 000 and NOK 10 000 per person. Sleep travel. And it's going to add up to about $24 million. kr paid by the State for the purchase of night trains on the Oslo–Stavanger route. Oslo – Stavanger has a completely different coating, there are 65 trips per. departure from Stavanger. Once again, I have to ask that the Storting make it clear that one wants to reduce the supply to Stavanger. The size must almost give us the clear signal before we can reduce a requested offer that Rogaland probably won't be particularly happy to lose.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1050	«Every year Telenor distributes approx. 6.8 million telephone directories for Norwegian households and businesses. A study from Norsk Responses shows that only one of four used telephone directories last time they needed to find a telephone number. On TV 2, the government has promised to mirror the system, so that only those who want the telephone directory will get it. What measures have the Council of State taken to ensure that only those who want the telephone directory receive it in 2009?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1057	It is important for people to have access to an overview of their phone numbers, and we are obliged to provide such a service after the echo promise. Such an overview has traditionally been published in the form of a printed catalogue, but the use of the Internet has resulted in several users using online catalogue information. When the Ministry of Transport concluded the universal service agreement with Telenor in 2004, Telenor undertook to publish the catalogue in both printed and electronic form. Telenor shall, by agreement, distribute the catalogue in printed form to those who have not subscribed to such a catalogue. In 2004, people’s access to and use of the Internet telephone directory was much smaller than at present. The ministry therefore thought it was too early to go away from the obligation to distribute printed catalogues. In the four years that have passed, there has been an increase in people's use of the Internet in general, and it's therefore natural to look at things again. The Ministry has been in contact with Telenor and Eniro, who prints and distributes the telephone directory – the ‘white pages’ – on behalf of Telenor. Eniro prints and distributes the other catalogues, Yellow Pages and Your District, on its own initiative. It is important to be aware that the Department cannot prevent either Eniro, who publishes the catalogue on behalf of Telenor, or others from issuing telephone directories on their own if they so wish. Since March 2007, Telenor and Eniro have set up a series of measures to improve the reservation arrangements, so that only those wishing to obtain a directory can do so. They have, among other things: informed in letters about 150 other operators in the market about the measures, they have submitted information in new editions of the catalogue, sent 200000 e-mails to all Telonor’s e-mails and customer letters to all Telenor’s invoice customers in the third quarter of 2007. Furthermore, there is a pointer on Telenor's website to make reservations possible. It is also possible to book via the Eniro website. Eniro has also called all companies or users who received more than 10 catalogues and asked about the need. The catalogues are now divided into groups, with the exception of Troms and Finnmark. This leads to a lower consumption of paper. With regard to the distribution of the catalogues, Telenor has been required to provide better training and more accurate distribution lists for the sports that do this job. Additional post-checking is also in progress to make sure that there are no unreceivable directories. It is important that it is easy to get a printed catalogue. At the same time, it is important that those who do not want such a directory should simply and satisfactorily omit it. Telenor and Eniro have recently done their best to reduce the number of catalogues for the Ministry from 2007 to 2008. A total of 541,000 catalogues have been created by White Pages and Yellow Pages, which is a 13 pst decrease. In the case of paper consumption, it is reduced by 1,702 tonnes, i.e. 31 pst. It's per. In November 2008, a total of 226 317 people were registered and approximately Three thousand people registered each month in 2008. In the future, the Ministry will closely monitor the impact of the measures taken and the functioning of the reservation system. We will also look at the number of phone directories that will be dropped. In cooperation with Telenor and Eniro, we will aim to find a solution that is best suited to all final users. Such a solution could be to flip the current system, so that it goes from being a reservation scheme to a white page booking scheme, so that everyone who wants a printed catalogue would have to ask in particular to get it. There will be both positive and negative aspects of switching to such a scheme, and the assessment will need to be seen in the light of the experience of the measures taken to improve the current scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1078	I thank you for your answer. As the Council of State itself was aware, there has been a trend from 2004 to 2007 and 2008 in the number of people who want to receive the telephone directory in print. The letter sent by the Ministry in March 2007 states that an evaluation mechanism should be established to oversee the improved reservation scheme to which it is provided. This evaluation mechanism was to start in the first six months of 2008, as stated in the letter. My question is: what has been achieved with this evaluation mechanism, and what will be the impact on the distribution of the catalogue in 2009?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1083	What I summarized in my answer is the result of the status of the case per. today. There is no doubt that there are users who want to get the phone directory. This applies especially to older people. Internet use has exploded mainly among younger people, while many older people will fall short of the catalogue. If we're going to flip the principle, which is definitely a question we're considering now, we also have to make sure that those who need to get the directory will get it without any unnecessary staple and loot for them. I hope we can find a solution to that. As I said, we're going to follow on from what's going on. We see that the reservation arrangement as it is now works.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1088	I fully agree with the Council that those who want the catalogue will have it, and those who do not want it will have the opportunity to make reservations. There are various reasons why you choose to have a catalogue printed and not use the Internet. But my question was about the evaluation mechanism that the Ministry has asked Telenor to implement to look at the changes that were introduced into the reservation scheme. Is it so to understand that it has not been started or that no result of this evaluation mechanism is currently available?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1095	It's started, but I have per. today did not receive the specific feedback, only regular feedback, which is summarised in the main response I gave. I believe that the most important thing in this case, if we choose to go for a mirror turning principle, is that we are sure that there will be a system that will give to those who, after all, need to get the directory. That's what security has gone through. In part, the Internet and broadband are not well-developed throughout the country – one has broadband, but the capacity for efficient and fast access to the Internet is not as good at all. In addition, there are still age groups — many in all age groups, but especially among the elderly — that do not use the Internet per year. today. But we follow developments carefully, and we see that it has been accelerating use of the right of reservation. I'm glad you're here.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1100	Question 6 has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1106	My question goes to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘Two reports have been made during 2008 to show that public measures to obtain and maintain housing do not work as intended. The National Audit Office and the Norwegian Institute of Urban and Regional Research have shown that many of those who need the most fall outside the schemes. The rules on housing support, start-up loans and housing grants in the House Bank are too complicated, too under-targeted and too under-coordinated. Is the Council open to try to allow a housing team in a municipality to manage start-up loans and allow them to compete with the municipality?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1115	The two reports referred to here point to several weaknesses in the housing social system. The arrangements do not reach all the most difficult ones, including: because many fall outside the support scheme, while they have too low income to get a start-up loan. These are challenges that the Government will take action with. In St. prp. No 1 for 2008-2009 for the financial year 2009 programme category 13.80 Chapter 580 housing aid, the Government has submitted proposals for a strong strengthening of the support schemes. The proposal is 7 November of this year followed up with St.prp. No 11, A reinforced bumper, where we do more good for the proposals for changes to the support system. Today, disadvantaged people are treated differently in the support scheme, and many fall outside the scheme even if they have very low income and high construction costs. We argued that 50,000 new households would be supported by the new system. The government suggests that a reinforced buffer is one of the most accurate measures we can put in place to prevent hard-to-reach falls outside the housing social systems. The government will also look at other measures to prevent the non-compliance of disadvantaged people. measures to increase the use of start-up loans and to facilitate the provision of more municipally available rental housing. Start-up loans are an important tool for young and hard-to-reach busses. Since the scheme was introduced in 2003, 412 out of 430 municipalities have used it. Many municipalities are actively using the scheme. It is an objective that all of the target groups of the scheme should be able to be evaluated for start-up loans. The household bank is therefore working continuously to stimulate more active use. In addition, in the near future, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs will consider various measures to increase the use of start-up loans. The answer is yes, I have an open hold to see if construction teams can manage start-up loans, and I'm going to evaluate it more closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1126	I thank you for your answer and have the following follow-up: I realized that the Council of State met with a number of actors in the housing sector yesterday. To several media the Council of State stated after the meeting that start-up loans are a well-kept secret. What will the Council of State do to ensure that far more people become aware of and benefit from the initial loan?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1133	So on the one hand, 412 out of 430 municipalities have the system in use. At the same time, I still meet someone who does not know this scheme. Therefore, the more important it is to make the initial loan known, not least at this time. There's money that the municipalities borrow, and that they borrow. It's a loan that can be used for setting up, but it's also a loan that can be used for refinancing, which many people need right now. I have asked the Home Bank to do what they can to make the loan known. I have also asked them to use the operating space as far as they can, and I am now sending a separate letter to all municipalities and making them aware of how they can now use the initial loan also for refinancing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1138	I also thank you for this answer, and have a final question. It has in some municipalities, among others. Hasvik, Steinkjer and Vestre Toten have been experimented with a shared risk between the state and the municipality from the first crown for initial loans. Will the Council consider making this a permanent arrangement?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1145	This experiment includes 15 municipalities. It has not yet been evaluated. I think it's important that we first work at the time and then evaluate it, but it's an experiment that's supposed to help even more municipalities start borrowing, and that they use it more actively, that's why more people get into it. What I can say is that I'm going to look at the effects, listen to the municipalities that this applies to, because I'm therefore busy using the initial loan even more actively than today. I have registered with pleasure that municipalities such as Lørenskog has now taken up twice as much of its initial loans as last year to help more of its inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1153	I would like to ask the Minister of Defence the following questions: ‘The defence buys relatively many workshop hours for e.g. wheeled vehicles out on the civil market instead of using their own capacity. It can often be twice as expensive as if the Defense itself had done the job. The Council of State sees this problem, and what will she do to exploit and possibly exploit it? does the capacity for maximum use of the resources and capabilities contained in the defence increase?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1162	In the modernisation of the defence, the Government prioritises efficiency in the internal defence, where possible and appropriate, rather than dedicating parts of the defence activities to external actors. However, for the FLO as a production activity, it is cost-effective and management rational to have production capacity both in the form of own labour force and through a small use of external suppliers. This provides flexibility to quickly adapt capacity and thus also costs in line with emerging changes in defence needs. Enlisting external actors shall only be done where appropriate, e.g.: where its capacity does not extend due to high loads or highly specialised areas of activity. In 2007, the army had a major need for maintenance services due to the planned manning and increased tasks associated with operations abroad. This led to the need for an increased share of hours worked by external suppliers. The hours worked by the outsiders therefore increased from 4 pst. to 8 pst. from 2006 to 2007. Despite this increase, therefore, supplies from the outside constitute a relatively small part of the total maintenance work carried out in the Army. Using the capacity of its own organisation is necessary to operate as cost-effective a business as possible and thereby contribute to the release of resources to other priority areas. This also provides flexibility related to long-term development and internal efficiency improvement of maintenance activities. In this context, optimum use of own resources is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1175	I thank the Council of State for a supplementary response, and there is no doubt that the Minister and I have the same desire that the defence operate as efficiently as possible. The reason I asked this question is that I have been on many workshop visits to the Defence Department, both in my home state and other counties, and there I have received many feedback that they both want, want and can do more in their workshop – with perhaps a certain amount of change, but nevertheless. Then I think that if we can increase the capacity of the Defence Workshops, it will, of course, strengthen the Defence. It will strengthen efficiency, and it will also strengthen the economy. Because after what I have heard, a workshop hour costs military attention approx. 500 kroner, while in the civil market you have to pay about double. Obviously, you're talking about a lot of dollars, even though it's just about eight psts, which the minister's talking about. So my question is, what will she do from 2007, as she said, and forward?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1184	It is quite clear that where the defence has its own capacity, we should not rent external capacity at all. When renting external capacity, it should only be in order to take the peaks – the peak load – or in cases where you do not have that capacity yourself. If it is more cost-effective in the long term to employ more people, the Defence Agency will also have the opportunity to do so. But this is always a balance of what will be the even load over time, because we don't want to sit with an overcapacity either. But I fully agree with the representative, Bredvold, that where we have the capacity to do the job, there the defense will also do the job.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1191	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was good. And we agree. Another thing that also comes in here, of course, is parts. After I have been examined, we get a little discount – and perhaps a relatively good discount too – when we put out a job to a civil workshop and also buy parts. But I have also been investigated that if we had done this job in a military workshop, we would have got more discount – i.e. cheaper parts. It's also part of the whole thing, that the cost of hours is so much and so much, and the price of parts is so much and so much. So I hope that the Council of State will look into it, that we buy as many parts as we can, of the Defense itself – for our use of course – in order to get them as cost-effectively as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1198	I cannot answer in detail about how all parts are purchased in the defence. I know that the defense of course also has its own warehouses. But I can assure you that we have a very high focus on the FLO and the workshops to deliver as optimally and as cheaply as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1206	I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment and Development the following questions: ‘New E6 between Gardermoen and Kolomoen in Hedmark shall be opened according to plans in 2013 but due to: the Ministry of the Environment shall determine the number of tunnels on this route is significantly delayed. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the time of opening is as planned?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1215	Let me first say that the slightly debasing theme of how many tunnels there will be on this route is about the protection of one of Norway's most amazing natural landscapes, namely the marine landscape along Mjösa, Norway's largest lake. In the Ministry of the Environment, we have the municipal plan for E6 and the Dovrebanen in Stage and Eidsvoll municipalities for treatment. The Ministry of the Environment shall decide on the choice of routes because the State Road Administration and the Railway Agency have raised objections to the alternative adopted by the municipalities. It is a very comprehensive and important matter that needs to be considered in the long term. The choice of new road and rail routes is of great importance for the coastal zone, landscape and agriculture along Norway’s largest lake. Difficult balances must be made between environmental considerations and costs. The matter is complicated and will therefore take time. However, this matter is very important and is now further addressed by the Ministry of the Environment in consultation with other departments concerned, including the Ministry of the Environment. Ministry of Transport. The question of the implementation of the project also depends on the funding, which is addressed in the national transport plan. Let me also add that I think it's very important that we have a long-term perspective on such a large and extensive nature intervention as we're talking about here. The choice of trasé along Mjösa will characterize the landscape of Stange, Hamar and Eidsvoll municipalities for many generations to come. It's a choice with a generation perspective, maybe a 50 or a 100-year perspective. So even though it's important to get the decision quickly – and we're going to do that – it's even more important that we make the right decision, as people along Mjösa in 20, 50 or 100 years look back on with pride and say that this is the big deal, this government did the right thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1228	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The question was originally sent to the Minister of Transport, but then it was sent to this Council of State, and that is probably correct. I had hoped that it was the Minister of Transport who had responded, but enough about it. Obviously, we're going to spend the time we need, because that's an important decision we're going to make. However, I think that deadlines must be set, so that you have something to work against. This was supposed to be ready for 2013, and now it is probably shifted by several years. That is why I want to put my question into practice and ask if the Council of State can say when his department is done with this matter. If there is capacity, it must be possible to hire people who can work with the case. That you prioritize it, I think you certainly do, but you have to give it a very strong priority. It's not without reason this road section is called Death Road No. 1 in Norway. It is a bad term, but there are many who have used those words, therefore I dare say so. So it's important that we get going.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1239	There is not a lack of capacity to ensure that a decision has not been made at this point, but the extremely difficult balance between different purposes. Traffic safety, which the questioner takes up at a reasonable price, is one aspect. But there is a very large balance between how much costs we are willing to take, both the community in the form of tolls and the state in the form of costs in the road map, and environmental considerations. Quite simply, it is clear that the more money we are willing to put on the table, the more environmentally friendly and environmentally sound abrasion we will have. That balance we are now in the final phase of, and we are presenting it to the Greatness in the relatively near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1244	I will record once again that you will not make a date – or some year at any time – because when this will be done. But I want to set a date here. In addition, you might ask yourself: does the development in this case have something to do with the double-tracking of the Dovreban, so that the Dovrebane in a way contributes to the development of the E6?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1249	This is a choice of trasé in one of Norway's most beautiful and beautiful landscapes, with absolutely fundamental importance for people living along Mjösa. If we do the crazy interventions, I don't think people with pride will look back at what we're doing now. Since the representative asks about what year, I can assure you that the latest resolution will come in 2009. Perhaps it will come as early as 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1259	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment and Development the following questions: ‘21. In October, the NRK sent a TV programme that was highly critical of the situation in the farming industry and, to a particular extent, escaped farmed salmon. Neither the authorities nor the industry were given the opportunity to respond to the claims in the programme, which had been sponsored by the Directorate for Nature Management at NOK 300000. Does the Council of State consider it acceptable that a body governed by the Ministry of the Environment should use NOK 300000 to purchase transmission time in the NRC in order to obtain a clear political message where the purpose seems to be to prevent the distribution of new farming concessions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1268	In order to answer the question adequately from the representative Kristiansen, I have obtained opinions from both the Directorate of Nature Management and the NRK. The Directorate for Nature Management has informed that in September 2006 they received an application from Deadline TV for grants from the Directorate’s Fisheries Fund for a television production of live salmon. The funding plan identified this as a co-financing between the NRK, the Film Fund and the Directorate for Nature Management, where the Directorate, through its fisheries fund, would contribute 50 pst. Commitments for aid of DKK 300 000 from the fish fund were granted on 6 October 2006 and full financing and documented transmission time were made in the NRC. The grant was granted under the same conditions as those normally provided for contributions from the Directorate’s Fisheries Fund to films, books, information brochures and other information material which are important for the purpose of the Fund. In December 2006, the directorate received a signed agreement between the manufacturer and the NRC on the time of transmission. There has been no contact between the manufacturer and the Directorate for Nature Management during production. The assessments of the content have been carried out by the NRK itself in line with its guidelines. The directorate did not get any information about the time of sending until approx. one week before dispatch. On the occasion of the case, the NRK stated the following: ‘Of course, it is not possible to buy the time sent in the NRK – neither in the Ut in nature nor in other programs. In nature, researchers in government agencies or other researchers often search for scientific evidence. The current salmon situation programme in Norwegian rivers was one of the 2-3 year freelance productions that Nature sends. These productions may have additional funding from sources other than the NRC. However, strict rules are attached to the independence and transparency of such co-financing. The external production companies relate to the contracts they enter into with the NRK, and here are the «Sponsor participation guidelines» and the full transparency of the financial plan important points that in this case have been closely followed up by us. Co-financing from sources other than NRK in purchased material constitutes a very small economic amount for the NRK. The time it happens is most common for different public bodies to be inside the picture, as in this case. The participation of business organisations and other private sources is exceptional. Otherwise, the NRK is not familiar with the description of the programme as it arises from the question of Question Time.’ In my opinion, the NRK's programme gave a factual and professionally updated account of what we know today about the effect of escaped farmed salmon. Thus, the programme contributed in an informative and good way to informing the public about one of the major challenges facing wild caught populations today. I am sure the representative of Kristiansen agrees that it is important to provide such information. I would also like to emphasise that the award of new farming concessions was announced in the Strategy for a competitive Norwegian aquaculture industry in August 2007 and that the allocation plans were announced to the Stortinge in the budget proposal in October of that year. In this respect, there is reason to point out that the NRK’s decision on the time of transmission was not known to the Directorate before approx. one week before the time of dispatch. As the production agreement was ready in December 2006 and new farming concessions were not notified until 2007, the representative Kristiansen’s suggestion is that the purpose of the programme appears to be to prevent the distribution of new farming concessions on his own unfairness. I will end by saying that I feel confident that the representative of Kristiansen sees it as important that the NRK contribute to social information, and that the institution itself must have full editorial control over what is produced and sent.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1299	I thank you for the answer, even though it bears more of an answer from a broadcaster than from a government council that got the question from me. It's obvious that I think the department would have insisted on asking more than the directorate and the NRK what they think about this question and this matter. After all, any evidence from the directorate shows that at the time the directorate promised to pay for the programme, the directorate was 100 percent aware of the angle this programme would have. Since the Council of State did not answer my question, it would be natural to repeat it: Is it okay that this directorate – or other directorates – can buy transmission time to be a political actor in a landscape that actually sorts under the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1308	Here, I think we need to distinguish between two relationships. One is what you had to think about this program. I have full respect for the fact that this may have been a controversial programme, where other societal interests and actors have felt that they did not come forward enough. So it's probably not different from a large number of programs how many of us often feel that we're not getting enough into order. So one thing is the meaning of that program, another is the idea of unfortunate connections and the purchase of transmission time, which I strongly reject. The Directorate for Nature Management has thus contributed to supporting a programme to provide substantial information on a major environmental problem in Norway, namely escaped farmed salmon. There are no unfortunate links in this matter, although of course it is free for the individual, including the representative of Kristiansen, to have strong opinions about the program itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1315	Again, the answer is that you defend the directorate’s conduct and the fact that you have sponsored a program of 300,000 kroner. You can think of what you want about the programme, I agree with that, and the issues that are addressed are in many ways very relevant. But it's completely unbalanced. I assume that the Council of State also believes that any directorate cannot act in this way, at least the industry and coastal actors believe so. When they do not get into such an unbalanced situation as the programme shows, it should be cleared up politically so that this does not create precedent for others who would like to act as a political actor. It is definitely clear that the Directorate for Nature Management knew the entire content of the programme before it was sent.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1320	I still respond to the concept of ‘purchasing time’. What the Directorate for Nature Management has done is to support the production of a programme, as well as to support the production of other instruments – books, brochures and whatever it may be – without benefiting from the full content of the programme. It is a selection of NRK programmes that are sponsored by different interests in different ways, whether public or private, and it becomes a very simplified – and really quite rough – claim that the programme creators of NRK programmes sponsored by an actor should be in the pocket of that actor. I think we'll get a lot of examples of critical relationships if you take that view. The Directorate for Nature Management has done so to provide funds for the creation of a programme; the content of that programme has not been controlled. It is free for the representative of Kristiansen and others to participate in the public vocabulary and criticise the programme in disunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1332	«Norwegian industry has shown its willingness and ability to cut unwanted emissions, including NOx and sulphur. Industrial CO2 quota regime, which is stricter than in the EU, is bottled up by the capital industry that could be used for the development of technology for lower CO2 emissions. In Technische Ukeblad 39/08, Stein Lier-Hansen, head of the Norwegian Industry, wants several cooperation agreements with the State to cut CO2 emissions in Norway, rather than to meet commitments through the purchase of allowances abroad. Is the Council of State open to consider such a cooperation agreement with industry?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1351	Nearly half of the greenhouse gas emissions from land-based industries are not subject to allowances or emission taxes. These are emissions from the production of primary aluminium, ferro-alloys and chemical industries. It is important to introduce instruments that regulate emissions also for these industries. The parts of the industry that are subject to a quota obligation are allocated allowances equivalent to their competitors in the EU. However, the Government has opted for an allocation method other than the EU. The government allocates the free allowances based on historical emissions over emission projections and technical standards. Our quota allocation contributes to a more sustainable and long-term adaptation of production. The Parties to the Climate Change Agreement, all parties other than the Progress Party, agree that the Government in dialogue with industry assesses instruments, including quota obligations and voluntary agreements, for the non-CO2 industry or mandatory allowances. This point is followed up by the Government. I would like to add that I have no concerns about the very idea of engaging in commitments with the industry. What is a challenge, however, is to ensure that such agreements give something more than the technological gain that will yet come, and get measurement systems that ensure that something more of such an agreement is obtained than the normal technological gain. An important test piece on this will also be the NOx agreement, which is so far a great success. After ten years of standstill in the NOx work, we have got an agreement in place, and there is a lot of evidence that this work is now speeding up. But it's clear that the real measurement of it can't come within a few years, when we see if we actually reach the targets through the NOx agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1376	I do not feel that the Council of State takes the issue seriously by just bringing it up. It can be seen that the sulphur agreements that have been with industry in the past have produced great results. The NOx agreement is expected to deliver significant results – after the Government has adopted and changed its policy, because the Government had a tax approach as the primary instrument. I also think that in the case of CO2 cut, consideration should be given to other instruments than the quota section. For what characterises the Government's quota policy is that one is going to drain the industry for capital by not obtaining free allocation of allowances after 2012. This is a problem, because industry will then get strong incentives to invest outside Norway. The EU provides for full free allocation of allowances to the process industry after 2012. Then you get a carbon leak. If instead you can get an industry agreement here, that industry that invests in technology development, for example. allocated free of charge to several quotas in Norway, it will stimulate cut over relocation of industry. Will the Council of State consider this again?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1387	Being absolutely sure of what the EU will do after 2012 is a very dangerous exercise. What is absolutely certain is that Norway will engage in a close dialogue with the EU to influence these processes, and that we will, in a large way, be part of the EU's post-2012 quota regime. Then I'm a little surprised that a representative of the Progress Party chose this shot at the government that actually got a NOx agreement in place, instead of thinking through the four lost years when the Progress Party supported the previous government and no world thing happened in the NOx area. The reality is that the reason why Norway is so in a hurry to get this in place now is that we put the mouse still in the years after the Stockholm Protocol on NOx came. This government has now reached an agreement. There's a lot of evidence that it's going to work. Now you have to be a little satisfied with that, instead of criticizing it too.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1403	I'm satisfied with everything that works. I record that the Government has opted for a contractual arrangement that works under pressure from the opposition and the industry. So the system that the council boasts of is not what the government itself wanted, but it has had to go into something that works. Then I also remind the Council of State that it was SV and the Workers' Party that supported the Bondevik government in environmental policy, it was not the Progress Party – unfortunately, then we would have liked to have an agreement. What is important in terms of CO2 policy are, of course, the signals now given to industry. Industry is not daring to invest in Norway, because it is terrified that we will have stricter framework conditions in Norway after 2013 than it will in the EU. The EU is going in a completely different direction when it negotiates now, than the signals that the Government sends. The government says no free allowances, the EU says up to 100 pst. free allowances. Does not the Council of State see the problem for industry leaders who are going to make billions of investments to remain on the fence for up to five years at a time of decline, when they were to be encouraged to put these investments in place instead?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1413	I don't know who recognizes in the picture that the government says no free allowances. We have, of course, issued a number of free allowances. That the EU says 100 pst. free allowances, I am not familiar with them either. I don't know where this comes from. At least there is no basis for any decision from anyone. I am not a stranger to the basic idea here, namely the idea of agreements between the Government and industry. We need to assess whether this is a useful tool in the future, and we need, among other things, to assess whether it is a useful tool in the future. assess it on the basis of a very thorough review of the agreements we have concluded, to see if they have worked. Then I repeat: it is strange that the Progress Party instead of going on its own and assessing the period when it was itself a parliamentary basis for a government that did nothing of importance in this area, goes to frontal attacks and criticises a government that has taken action and implemented what it has been talking about, but not acted on, in Norwegian policy for ten years.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1425	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Employment and Inclusion the following questions: ‘18. In November, I attended a hearing under the auspices of ‘Borderland’ on the conditions of Lier waiting reception. The residents told me about their everyday life. There were very serious accusations against management and employees. There were allegations of racist statements, psychological terrorism and bullying by some employees, which may conflict with, among other things. legislation on discrimination. Does the Council share my view that this is information showing the need to carry out a thorough evaluation or examination of the conditions of Lier waiting reception?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1434	Lier waiting reception was established on 27 March 2006 with 100 seats. The waiting reception was the first in its kind, and the scheme was therefore evaluated by the Directorate for Foreign Affairs, after approx. one year of operation. The evaluation concluded that the scheme should be maintained, with some adjustments, including: after the evaluation, a system has been put in place for the payment of pocket money to residents. Neither I nor UDI are familiar with the charges against the operator and their employees at Lier’s waiting reception. UDI states that you follow the reception closely and are well informed about the operation. As at all other receptions, the UDI carries out annual supervision at the waiting reception in Lier. The surveillance of the year did not reveal any evidence in any way confirming the claims made by the representative Tørersdal on his question. The health office located at the reception has also not made any mention of such conditions. In addition, the Ombudsman has also visited the reception and had conversations with residents and employees. UDI awaits feedback from the Civil Ombudsman. There is no doubt that the reception staff at the waiting reception have a particularly demanding and challenging working day. UDI regards the staff of Lier as professional and competent, and emphasises that, at the time of receipt, among others: were incited to implement the proposal for financial support to persons in waiting reception. In addition, the management at reception has worked to start a qualification programme that provides trainees at the waiting reception. As a result of the initiative, the UDI has provided financial support for a pilot project providing persons cooperating on voluntary return, an offer of vocational training to a partner or enterprise before returning. The aim is that even more people choose to return voluntarily to their country of origin. I do not share the opinion of the representative Tørresdal that the claims made in a recent panel debate on the conditions at Lier waiting reception, suggest a new evaluation or examination of the conditions at the waiting reception in Lier. However, it is important that the UDI closely follow up all receptions, including the waiting reception. Reception residents have undoubtedly a difficult situation in which to live. It will naturally characterize them and is probably part of the explanation of the dissatisfaction and frustration that residents can experience. All residents of the reception have received final rejection of the application for asylum after a thorough assessment and have therefore not been legally resident in Norway. They are obliged to leave Norway and contribute to their own return. However, many want to stay in Norway, for which they are waiting for the offer they receive. Finally, let me underline that there is often a perception that the difficult situation in life makes all residents in waiting receptions demanding residents. It's not like that. Most people behave well while living in waiting receptions. However, some people are struggling poorly with the life situation in which they live, and this leads to challenges for the reception and for the individual resident.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1451	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I record that he said no to an investigation or an investigation of the special claims, but I am pleased that he nevertheless says that it should be an oversight, and that the Civil Ombudsman will make statements that one should follow closely. I think that's all right. At the same time, I have to say that I hope the Council of State will take note that it is important to pay extra attention to the perhaps most demanding of our asylum recipients, namely the waiting reception, which houses those who have been finally rejected. During my participation in the hearing, none of the residents complained about bad behaviour, but they said, for example. that employees said such things every day that if you don't like the food, you can just go home – and worse opinions than that. My follow-up question is: is it the way to motivate return, or does the Council of State see more constructive approaches to enable people to return to their homeland?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1458	No, that's not the way to encourage return – but I don't think it's likely that it's the usual way to encourage return. Therefore, I am very concerned that the UDI is as close in its follow-up to Lier's waiting reception as to other receptions, and looks forward to the review that the Civil Ombudsman has had. I think it's important to bear in mind that there's a special situation to sit on waiting reception, because the application is then rejected, and that in that context it can both feel and claim that conditions are not pleasant, given the special situation in which you are, without necessarily being a conscious or negligent behavior of those who work at reception. Nevertheless, it is important to follow up that the way the reception is operated is professional, and we have routines for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1465	We agree that at the departure centre or at the waiting reception it should be about arranging for a return. But is it not necessary to have professionals as helpers, who motivate – who have as their task not only to provide food and shelter in a waiting situation but to provide professional help, motivation, schools and not least to have telephone contact with and knowledge of their home country, so that they can really get help with the process they are sitting there waiting for? In addition, when a person fails to return someone — there are residents who have been tried to return but who have returned because the country did not want them — is it not wise to consider a time limit as to how long a person can sit on a waiting reception? There were two questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1472	Firstly, I myself have visited Lier's waiting reception and know that there are people with special competence in the psychologically difficult and demanding situation that is knowing that the answer is that you're going home – the question is when. My impression from the visit to the reception was that there is a great deal of special competence on this outside. Then I'm a little unsure about the second question from the representative. But if it is that she asks that it is that one endures and leaves not to go home, should give reward or premium in the form of better framework conditions, I am not a follower of it. I am generally concerned that the decisions taken — including in the case of rejection, that one should be returned — are also enforced, and that any perseverance in training their own return journey should not in any way be promoted in the system.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1482	My question to the Minister of Health and Welfare is this: ‘Can the Council of State report on the estimate by the Central Bureau of the growth rate in the number of annual shifts in the care sector in the previous ageing period, i.e. from October/November 2001 until October/November 2005?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1489	I have not broken down the figures on a monthly basis, so I am responding on the basis of what is the impact on the submitted budgets on an annual basis, i.e. for the period 2002 to 2005. What's behind the figures I've used is the estimated number of the SSB for this period, which in total shows an increase of 632 years in the care sector in the previous ageing period. In isolation, the SSB figures for the care sector show an overall increase of about 544 annual work over the period 2002–2003. For the period 2003–2004, there was an increase of 1,726 annual works, while for the period 2004–2005 there was a decrease of about 1,600 annual works. Overall, the estimates of the SSB show, in my opinion, that the annual growth of the previous ageing period was very weak. On the other hand, the same SSB figures show a significant annual growth in 2006 and 2007 of around 11 000 annual works. I am very aware that there is every reason to use the concept of estimate, because during the period I have now explained, there is a time gap between 2003 and 2004 in the way you calculate. That's why you have to use the term estimate. So it's an estimate from the SSB. My opinion is that when we meet in this room and discuss what has happened, I don't think it's unreasonable for the responsible state council to refer to numbers from the SSB. Then you have to discuss whether these numbers are correct or not, but normally it is used to be a relatively broad gap in the political environment that if you use figures from the Statistical Central Bureau, at least you don't have a party's interest in the numbers. Then there's an attempt at a neutral estimate. That is why I have been very careful to deal with a table from the Statistical Central Bureau where these figures that I have now referred to are shown.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1498	My question explicitly referred to the estimate of the Central Statistical Office. The council doesn't have to apologize for that, because that's what he's up to, because that's what I'm asking. I asked if the Council of State could explain these estimates from 2001 to the end of 2005. Obviously, the Council of States could not, because he chose to start in 2002 for some strange reason. But the previous ageing period did not start in 2002, so this is approaching at my discretion by the Council of State. I have the table from the Statistical Central Bureau in front of me on the speaker's chair, and it shows that if you include the entire magnification period, the increase was somewhere between 3,000 and 4,000, which is exactly the fifth of the Council of State's response. Now you can accept a certain measure of approximateness, but isn't it the other way around?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1507	I have to say that I am actually a little surprised by the debate technique that the representative is now using. I know, of course, that the purpose of these numbers is to evaluate what the previous government did in this area, against what this government is doing in this area. That is the basis for the political debate. The impact of the previous government on the number of people employed in the care sector during the previous period began with the correction of the budget of the Stoltenberg I Government for 2002. So the Right Party, which was a government party in the last growing period, had influence on the budgets, and thus the number of employees, starting with the 2002 budget. If we are to measure the impact of the policy pursued by the previous government on the impact of this government's policy, we must start from the financial years 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005 and measure against what happened when we got influence over the budget in 2006.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1516	The background to my question is well known by the Council of State. It's a word change we had in the NRK's News of the Day Eight, where the Council of State presented its claim for 600 new annual works during the last growing-up period. Now, the Council of State says he's going to assume a calculation that follows the calendar year. But why did the government, in which he himself sits, take into account the last six months of the previous government's ten thousand year work? Isn't that going to be a little inconsistent? You calculate in one way for the previous period, and in another way for this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1521	It may well be, as the representative of Wages and salaries is concerned, that it is important to produce the figures in a number of ways. I have no problem saying that if you take the starting point in 2001, it's not a growth of 500, it's a growth of 2,000-2500 or more – as if it makes history so much better. Well, in that case, the impressive result of the previous government is that over four years, a growth in the care sector in Norway of 2,500 — not 500. Nevertheless, it shows that the previous government of the degrees did not prioritise this sector in the same way that this government does, as with that calculation, it has had a growth of over 11,000 in two years. I can assure the representative Wohnning that I feel quite sure that when we are done with 2009 – and no matter how we calculate – the number 10 000 will be overfilled.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1532	I only allow myself a slight remark: it makes a certain difference in terms of the requirement of truthfulness! So to question 14: «Health South-East refers more patients to research in the private X-ray institute than the regional health service actually pays for. As a result, the waiting time for such studies has increased significantly, and many patients choose to pay the studies themselves. What will the Council of State do to ensure that regional health establishments have sufficient capacity in the provision of X-ray services so that patients can obtain the necessary studies in a reasonable time at no extra cost?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1541	Let me start by saying that this Council of States is truthfully speaking from the pulpit of the Great Britain. And if we can now agree to use the statistical central agency numbers, we've come a long way. Then we have documented the differences between the two governments. So to the question that was now asked: Regional health establishments shall ensure that the population is provided with specialist health services within and outside institutions, including outpatient radiological examinations. The task is addressed partly by examining patients in public outpatient clinics at health care establishments and partly by purchasing studies from the private X-ray institute. These services are financed as a combination of tariffs from public interest and payments from regional health enterprises. Figures from Nav, which administers the tariff system, show that the volume growth of private X-ray institutes was 50 pst. during the period 2002-2006. In the same period, there was a growth at outpatient clinics of 34 pst. The level in 2008 is no lower than in 2006. So there's been a strong growth in this area in recent years. Then it is important to realise that there may be relatively large differences in waiting time between the different actors, and the expected waiting time for low priority patients is partly long for some types of studies. I think this is serious, and there's reason to look at it. That is why I have asked regional health companies to assess the existing offer of outpatient radiology against their care for their responsibilities. I have given a deadline for feedback on this issue until mid-December, i.e. until the middle of the month to come. I also think it is important to understand that some references are printed on the company logo, maps and information about a particular private institute, but that does not mean that the survey must be done by the company. Patients with reference have the same rights for all relevant service providers – public and private. In the business meetings with the regional health enterprises, the Ministry will impose new requirements on future agreements with private X-ray institutes. One requirement is to print information on the self-produced referral forms of the institutions that the patient is entitled to choose alternative service providers. The Ministry will also require regional health enterprises to review information on their websites and other channels, so that relevant information is made available in a better way than at present. In addition, we propose that the expected waiting time of the private X-ray institutes should be published on the free hospital selection.no website.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1559	I thank the Council of State for its response and for meeting with expectations the outcome of the dialogue he will conduct with regional health businesses. I assume that the Storting will get to know it when it is completed in mid-December. The situation today is the real reality that many people who receive a referral from a doctor for X-ray examination are told that because they arrive at a certain time in the calendar year, the quota for contracts is exhausted. This means that you have to wait for a new waiting time for the next calendar year. It is reasonably perceived by the patient as quite absurd that it is the date of the visit to the doctor, which will determine how long it is to wait for the necessary studies. Don't the Council of State agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1566	I don't think I'm going to go into the details now, except to say that it's not for no reason that I've asked for a review of this field. It is important that patients experience that the offer we have, whether in public or in private, does not appear unacceptable. But it is also important for me to stress that e.g. Here in Oslo there are several different offers, several different suppliers, and it is important that patients who experience that they do not receive the answers and the service they think they deserve from one of the actors take advantage of their opportunity to choose another. What we see is that there are very big differences. So you could say that well, well, the patient shouldn't necessarily have to hold on like this, but that's an opportunity the patient has. Otherwise, we will review the case complex.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1573	The situation that some patients experience is, in my opinion, quite unacceptable. If you find that there may be a suspicion of breast cancer, for example, I have a strong understanding that a patient finds it quite pointless that you have to wait for months to have a necessary X-ray study carried out. It happens. Then there is reason to point out that what happens in such cases and that results from the statistics is that more and more patients choose to pay the entire study themselves, i.e.: As a consequence of the failure of regional health companies to comply with their responsibilities, we get a class-based health care system where those who can afford to pay get the survey carried out, while those who cannot afford to pay have to wait. Is this not something that the Council of State finds unacceptable?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1578	Well, if that's the way your salary now describes it, it's unacceptable. And what I really need to stress is that of course, it shouldn't be that when you're afraid that you're suffering from a serious illness, you have to wait as long as the pay used as an example in your question here. If breast cancer is suspected, it is totally unacceptable to wait for a monthly X-ray. I hope that doesn't happen. To the extent that it happens, it's unacceptable. But my impression is that when we operate with long waiting times on part of these studies, it applies to the low priority patients. But even there I find reason to ask questions about whether the waiting time now is not such as to require regional health companies to review it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1588	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Akershus University Hospital, Ahus, shall complete its practice of accepting victims of abuse as this is considered a municipal responsibility. The Health Manager of Lørenskog, on behalf of the municipalities of Rome, has negotiated an agreement with Oslo Municipal Medical Care Service to take over this task, in return for an annual payment of NOK 4 per year. the population and NOK 2000 000 per person. the case in question from the municipality. Does the Council of State consider that an abuser is to be considered a municipal health service, to have provided the competence of the State’s respondent?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1597	I would first like to commend the initiative taken by the health manager of Lørenskog, on behalf of the municipalities of Rome, to enter into an agreement with the Oslo Municipal Medical Service to accept victims of abuse. This may be an example of good intercommunal cooperation on emergency medical tasks. The government has presented a new action plan against violence in close relations – turning point – that applies for the period 2008–2011. One of the measures in the plan is to strengthen the victims of the abuse by the medical guards. The receptions are organised as lowthreshold services anchored in municipal or intercommunal bodyguards. The offer is for persons who have been subjected to violence in close relationships and/or sexual abuse. The starting point is that the municipality is obliged to provide medical care for its residents. The municipality has the freedom to organise the content of services as appropriate, for example: by entering into inter-municipal cooperation. But it is important for me to make it clear that assault victims must also apply to the medical officer when they are subjected to assault. Victims of abuse shall be guaranteed the same access to healthcare provided by the municipality as other residents. If necessary, the victims should be referred to emergency services in the specialist health service. The Health Directorate has provided a guide on the organisation of the victims’ receptions and their competences. Health professionals in such receptions should have broad competence, including: medical competence on the full examination of women’s and men’s genital organs and knowledge of violence in close relationships and sexual abuse. Intervention staff may seek assistance in more than one resource environment, for example: at regional resource centres, on violence, traumatic stress and suicide prevention. Such centres are established in all regions in the period 2006–08 and have acute competences for violence in close relationships and sexual abuse. Resource centres shall assist with knowledge and competence, information and guidance, and shall establish networks between relevant cooperation partners in the region. The centres should therefore not conduct clinical activities but have close contact with the field of practice. The National Centre of Competence for Medical Medicine in Bergen gathers and disseminates professional knowledge on municipal medicine. The Centre shall contribute to professional development, establish national professional standards, ensure national competence building and disseminate competences. Intervention recipients shall be evaluated during the planning period for the turning point. That's why it's natural that this is a theme that I want to look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1614	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I agree, of course, that it is very positive that municipalities find it possible to work in an intermunicipal way in important areas as well. This is an incredibly important area in which we have all seen that it should be done more. Today, there are different ways of receiving rape. In some municipalities, it is intermunicipal – like what has developed here in Oslo now, or in this region – but there are also a number of rape receptions located in the second line service. My question is: was it the intention, when this supervisor came, that this supervisor should lead to the cutting of rape receptions in the second line service? And then you might be left with a problem that the municipalities are now going to try to solve, where many feel that they just don't have enough skills to do this. I'm a little uncertain about whether I'm interpreting the supervisor correctly, and about others interpreting it correctly.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1623	I think it's an important additional question that the representative Davøy is asking. I believe that Davøy is quite right in saying that if this leads to the termination of the rape recipients in the second line service with reference to the abuse recipients in the municipal health service, it is an undesirable development in the sense that the competence required in a rape reception will probably be at an even higher level than that of an abuser, for that is among other things. questions of securing evidence. I'm going to take this issue back and ask for an assessment of whether a bet on an abuser's reception under the direction of a municipal medical officer leads to a development in the direction that the specialist health service does not fulfil the tasks they should be carrying out. Then I get back with a more detailed answer to that question from Davøy at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1628	I am very positive that the Minister of Health will examine this further. It's another case of principle that also lies in my question, and it's this with the first important receipt of a patient who has been raped. In any case, it was stated in the Medisin of today that the Medical Association has said that investigations of victims of rape, with responsibility for ensuring evidence and any action as an expert in the court, cannot be regarded as an ordinary task for example. the general practitioner, i.e. the first line service. I think there are a lot of general practitioners out there who are unsure whether they are actually holding all this responsibility in jail, because the supervisor requires an incredible amount of competence. I've read it myself, and it requires quite a lot of those who accept the women. It is great if the Minister of Health wants to look at this, and an evaluation is of course also important.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1635	I think I'm just referring to the answer I gave instead, and that I'm going to come back.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1643	I will ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘The government has, without reservation, supported Telenor’s purchase in India and the issue plan where the State has to contribute 6 billion. kr. The reactions of other owners and analysts are negative to both strategy and issue. Many believe that the investment is too large, too uncertain and that it is expensive for private owners to raise equity now. The purchase is disputed in India. There are speculations about the counterparty’s financial capacity and other conditions. Will the government that owns make an independent financial assessment of the purchase and issue?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1652	The State has stated in the ownership notification that the main objective of the State with the ownership of Telenor is to ‘contribute to the good long-term industrial development of the company’ and that the Government will ‘maintain the holding’ in the company. Telenor sees the development of activities in India as a contribution to long-term industrial development for the company. This is therefore in line with the objective of state ownership in Telenor. On the question from the representative, Hansen, about the government that owns, ‘will conduct an independent financial assessment of the purchase and issue’, I would point out that the government has assessed Telenor’s request to participate in an increase in the company’s capital, namely as an owner of Telenor who wants to contribute to the company’s industrial development in a longer time perspective. In this assessment, we have used both external financial and legal independent advice. Other owners of Telenor can usually assess this differently – I record that more people do it – among other things. due to different time perspectives and other objectives of ownership. I take note of this. The management board of the company is responsible for the business assessments. Based on the advice we have received, and our own assessment, we have concluded that if the Board of Directors of Telenor proposes an issue based on a capital requirement arising from the investment in India, the Government is willing to propose to the Storting that the State, under certain conditions, take its proportionate share of a share issue as part of the financing. However, it is not the responsibility of an owner to assume the responsibility of the company for the specific project assessment. It is and remains the responsibility of Telenor's administration and administration. It is therefore not appropriate for the State to review the project as such or further. In view of the fact that Telenor has published that the company has now ‘decided to consider alternative ways of financing the investment, including the previously announced issue’, I would repeat that the State – as I also stated in a reply letter to the representative Torbjørn Hansen on 11 November of this year – will be able to participate in a possible issue under certain conditions. It is firm, but it is up to the company to assess whether it is appropriate to implement the issue as planned or, where appropriate, to make other proposals. As I also said in that letter, the state – in line with the other owners – will deal with the proposals that the board is promoting, and we are now awaiting Telenor's conclusions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1665	I would like to thank you for your answer. I have also registered a reference for the use of consultants, also in the media. However, the right has been denied the request for transparency in the reports and analyses received by the Government before the decision was taken on the issue. There is a rather special situation in which the State will decide on an issue where there is a large purchase that is the investment objective. This worked, as far as I have understood, in such a way that the state’s commitment to support the issue directly triggered Telenor’s conclusion of contracts with a high economic impact in India. Then it becomes quite essential that the government, both as owner, on behalf of the Norwegian people and in view of the fact that it is probably the only owner involved in this decision, make a thorough and independent assessment of the purchase and of the issue to which it is committed. My question is: Will the Storting get access to the assessments and advice received by the Government in connection with this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1676	There is no question about the fact that we have had external, independent financial and legal advisers. It's ABG Sunndal Collier and the law firm Selmer that's done it. Then, as the representative is also well aware from when the Right is in government, it is not common to have the reports sent by a department and a government use in their internal case preparations. But if we come to the point that Telenor maintains what they have addressed us about, or other alternatives, it is clear that the Stortinget and the maritime representative Hansen will have access to the assessments we have made on the basis of the advice we have received, and their own assessments. It's going to happen in an appropriate way. There should be no doubt about that. But it is something other than getting the reports that a user in an internal case preparation, and that is quite common in the type of business, also of an exchange-sensitive nature, which was also common when the Right Council of State had the Ministry of Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1683	This also has another side. I record that the Council of State in its answer to question on 3 November indicated that the assessment of aid for the issue had to be made by each owner, and that the board of directors of the company was responsible for assessing how. Other owners will respond to the issue. Now the state has a dominant ownership position in Telenor, StatoilHydro and Norsk Hydro. They not only have the power to force through issues, they also have a direct influence over the election of the governments of these companies. There has been some uncertainty today as to how the State will act in view of the interests of other shareholders in a time of financial crisis, where the risk is obvious that other owners will suffer losses if preferential distributions are made at very low prices. Does the Council of State see that the State can in this way cause a loss to other owners? And will the State in the future be more thorough in ensuring that such issues are anchored and reasonable in relation to other shareholders in the type of listed companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1694	I do not see the matter from the very point of view of the representative Hansen. Also at this point we follow the usual procedure in such cases. In this case, we first received a briefing and then a request from Telenor via their administration and board if we could, under certain conditions, as the representative knows, participate in any issue, and if there were limitations to it, etc., from our side. The business is left to the board. It's their responsibility. It's always been like that, and that's how I think it must continue to be. When it comes to the question of the other shareholders, it's Telenor's job to deal with them. We are, as everyone knows, the largest owner. We've been dealing with that briefing and the request, and we've done our own assessment and an external, independent assessment of it. But we haven't seen the final prospectus, and it's natural when it's now also considering other alternatives. But it is the administration of Telenor that is responsible for contact with the other owners. I take note that some of the others have a different view, perhaps from a shorter time perspective than the state has with its ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1708	From the representative of Gunnar Gundersen to the Minister for Knowledge: ‘Lookup in the Evening Post and the Newspaper suggests that the Directorate of Education has found an error in the basis for grants to the post-secondary schools and that the error is settled in the budget for 2009. The 2009 State budget states: ‘The 2009 budget sets have been corrected in relation to the drawings to be included in the calculation of the rates.’ Schools have understood this to have both past errors and corrected for a new basis for 2009. What is correct, and does the Council of State consider this to be an acceptable treatment for schools?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-26.ana.ud871e1716	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. The map of the day is then finished. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
