ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e22	The representative, Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e25	On behalf of the representatives of Øyvind Korsberg, Kåre Fostervold and myself, I am delighted to propose the development of an action plan to make food supervision a service establishment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e30	The representative of Torbjørn Hansen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e33	On behalf of the big business representatives Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, Gunnar Gundersen, Bent Höie and myself, I would like to propose a representative to remove market regulation on pigs.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e38	The representative, Mr Sortevik, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e41	On behalf of Per Sandberg, Bård Hoksrud and myself, I have the pleasure of proposing measures to ensure the removal of mercury in submarine U864 at Fedje in Hordaland.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e46	The representative, Gunvald Ludvigsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e49	On behalf of Lars Sponheim, Vera Lysklätt and myself, I would like to propose an action plan to reduce coerciveness in mental health protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e55	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e81	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Kristin Halvorsen State Council Sylvia Brustad State Council Terje Riis-Johansen The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. AscendingSort order for mail groups We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Sonja Irene Sjøli.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e100	I would like to ask the Minister of Health and Health a question. To Dagbladet on 31 March 2005, the representative of Brustad said that she was shocked that the hospitals were considering cutting food supply, and said that we have to put the foot down, so that lack of money and saving measures do not always affect women and children. Minister of Health and Health, Brustad, has now been responsible for the provision of food for two and a half years, and we see that cuts in hospital budgets affect women and children throughout the country. At St Olav's Hospital, a whole new maternity ward closes half a day and on weekends. Several maternity wards have to close this summer to save money, and feeding women in the districts have to travel for several hours by boat and bus to get to the maternity ward. The preparedness of midwives and accompanying services in the districts is being reduced or cut completely. This occurs during a period of the year when most children are born. The National Council for Paternity Care, which is to advise the Council of State on maternity and maternity care, withdrew from her duties in protest during the harvest because she did not follow up professional advice to ensure a proper supply of food throughout the country. For two years she has promised a national plan for maternity and maternity care, but it has boiled away in the cabbage. So it looks like the government has surrendered and just gave up. What is now happening at many maternity wards and in the municipalities is causing great anxiety and concern in many pregnant and pregnant women. And as a former midwife, I am upset that many birthers now do not have the necessary security and predictability and a proper offer. Will Minister of Health and Welfare Brustad now put his foot down to prevent savings from affecting women and their children?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e115	If the reality description that Sonja Själi here is trying to draw, would have been true, then I would have been really worried. I can assure the representative, Sjöli, that this case has not boiled away in the cabbage, this council has not given up at all. I am very concerned that we should ensure good quality in the food supply throughout the country. With regard to St Olav's Hospital in particular, I have asked for a briefing on that situation. When it comes to summer entertainment - there's nothing else that has started under this government, that people have to have vacations in the summer; that's the way it was when the Right was in government, and that's how it has been for many years - I've asked that we prevent it from being so that it's not enough follow-up service, that it is not closed more than necessary, and that it should not be closed because of economics. I have today a meeting on that matter in the department to make sure that it is not closed more than necessary, and that the pregnant women who have to give birth while it is closed are guaranteed good follow-up in other ways. Then this government will very soon come back with its own plan to make birth care even better in our country. We live in one of the safest countries in the world to give birth, but we're going to be even better, because there are also unfortunate events happening in us. It's a matter we'll get back to in a very short time. The new National Council for Paternity Care is now soon up and running. I'm absolutely sure there are very good people coming in who have a good bearing on what they're talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e126	I now think the Council of State repeats itself. These promises have been made in the last two or three years without any improvement in the situation. Unlike Brustad, the Right does not believe that there is only more money that is the solution, but also a better organisation, structural change, priorities and better leadership. The right has always fought for better quality in the food supply, and the Council of State knows that. The situation that has now arisen, she cannot talk away from it. She has to take into account the reality as the pregnant and the birthing experience, namely a poorer offer, unforeseeableness and insecurity. It's just reading the papers. Time and time again, fire-fighting must be operated. Now Brustad has the responsibility, she has to stop blaming others. The right now requires that she take responsibility and ensure a safe and sound offer for nursing women throughout the country. What will the Council of State do to ensure a good, sound and secure midwife preparedness in the municipalities and a good follow-up service?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e133	At least this government has not said that only money is the solution. On the contrary, there are a lot of other measures that have to be taken in this sector, while at the same time giving money. This government has for the current year provided the most historic hospital budget - significantly more than under the government for which Sonja Sjøli and her co-representatives were part of the foundation. Like the representative, Mr Sjöli, I am very concerned that pregnant women should have safe, good offers throughout the country, and that there should be predictability. This applies from the time you get pregnant and are going to have a follow-up in the municipality, and I believe that there must be a real freedom of choice in all municipalities, whether you are going to a regularity or to a midwife. In other words, we need more midwives in several municipalities. It must also be such that there is good food supply throughout the country. Unfortunately, it is not today. There the government is going to propose changes, and we're going to come back to it in less than a very long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e140	There will be follow-up questions - first Linda C. Hofstad Helleland.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e143	It is incomprehensible to me that the Council of State is now continuing its explanation of the situation of the natives. I would like to inform the Council of State that the representative Sjøli's description of reality actually matches reality. It's just to read the Address Paper in the last few days. There are trade unionists who say that St Olav's Hospital shuts down the maternity wards at night, and they say that births are being speeded up for the children to come to the world before the department shuts down. The midwives warn against this, it creates more stress and increases the risk of complications. St Olav's Hospital must save more money, and there are women and children who have to pay the price, in terms of insecurity and danger of health damage. The Council of State may well agree that changing the maternity centre/department in the middle of a child is not optimal food conditions. Does the Council of State think it is good health policy to push women to birth in office hours?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e152	I do not think it is a good solution that when the birth is started, the birth will be replaced from one department to another. It's quite obvious. I've also taken up already with the management of Health Mid-Norway what's really the situation at St Olav's Hospital. I've asked them for an orientation. What management has assured so far is that it is not right what has been written and said that hormones are used to accelerate births. I trust that's right-- and that should just be missing. Then, when I get that briefing from St. Olav's Hospital, I'm going to go into this, because all women, including in Health Mid-Norway, are going to be sure that they get good, safe and sound follow-up when they're going to give birth. That is why I am very concerned about that situation. And the representative probably also knows that the county doctor has gone into that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e160	Harald T. Nesvik - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e163	The situation of pregnant and pregnant women is a recurring theme in this room. We are now approaching summer, and we remember all the debates both last year, previous year and year before there again in summer-bound food departments around the country. The debate is now under way again because a number of health businesses have to make some savings in order to achieve a financial balance, which is the requirement of health businesses. We have also just seen a big look at the situation of the natives in Central Norway, and the situation that arose related to the summer-related maternity ward in Volda, the municipality of Ørsta, and which the Health Authority has reported on. My question to the Council of State is this: Will the Council of State now ensure that it does not get a worse offer around the country in individual municipalities because maternity wards have to stop in the summer? What will the Council of State do to ensure that this does not happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e172	Summer closures shall not be for economic reasons. But that it must be a certain summer closure because people are going to have a vacation, is nothing new this year and was not last year, nor was it the year before there. That's quite correct -- and I was also very upset about some of the cases I saw of summer closure last year, not least at Narvik Hospital, where the pregnant women were not informed, where there was no accompanying service, and where the system was not set up so that the pregnant women were guaranteed good and safe follow-up. I have mentioned this with the health companies, and today I have a meeting in my department to make sure that you do not repeat it as some health companies did last year, and that all pregnant women, including those who are going to be born in the middle of the summer, are guaranteed good quality. This means that to the extent that there are closures, there must be good follow-up, for example. with accompanying service. Unfortunately, this was not the case, for example. in Narvik last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e179	Laila Bavøy - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e182	Unfortunately, the director of the University Hospital Nord-Norway has decided that the maternity ward at Narvik Hospital will be shut down for five weeks in the summer of 2008. In 2007, the Council of State said that no maternity wards should be closed due to economic circumstances. Similarly, the Narvik maternity ward was closed last year, which was also pointed to here by the councils. The natives become anxious, and they become insecure. Is that how we are going to treat women and children in Norway in 2008? We asked the question last year, and we ask it again this year: will the Council stop the summer closure of the maternity wards, and quite specifically the maternity ward in Narvik? This cannot be experienced by the birthing women in Narvik even until the summer of 2008. We have, as I know, not an operational midwife service that has been upgraded, until now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e189	When I got to know the situation in Narvik last year, I immediately intervened. That's also one of the reasons why we have that meeting in the ministry today -- to make sure that it's okay not only there, but also elsewhere in the country. The fact that it's decided by the UN to close it for five weeks doesn't mean that it's necessarily going to be like this. One of the reasons I'm having a meeting about these things today is that I just want to make sure that we're not going to relive the situation that unfortunately some birthing people experienced in Narvik last year, because that's not what we're going to do about pregnant and pregnant people in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e194	Gunvald Ludvigsen - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e197	The summer closure of maternity wards is something we have unfortunately been watered down with. The last day in the Official Journal of Bergen it says that the "Food" of Voss is in danger. And when I hear the Council of State today say to these other questions that we should not close more than necessary, I have to say that it is not particularly trusting for pregnant women, especially in the districts. I also have to say that there is a rather surprising response from the Council of State that has said that one should not close because of the economy. There is at least no guarantee for all those born who now have to travel long distances. So my question to the Council of State is, can the Council of State assure that no maternity wards are shut down this summer?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e204	I can't do that. But what I'm talking about is that it's not going to be closed for economic reasons. But that also people who work in hospitals must have a vacation, I assume we all agree on that. And then there's a problem for a few weeks in parts of the country, and I have a lot of attention on it -- especially in those parts of the country where there's a long way between hospitals. That's why I'm going to have that meeting today, and the goal of it is to ensure that all women throughout the country will have good follow-up and safe offers even when those who work in hospitals - seafaringly - are going to have a vacation. But we're going to make the closing time as short as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e209	We move on to the next main question -- from Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e212	I will also be allowed to ask questions to the Minister of Health and Care. Today, we have a relatively demanding situation in regional health businesses. That's about. NOK 1.5 billion to be saved for the current year to balance the economy. This is the fact -- maybe plus/minus a few tens of millions, but in that order of magnitude it is. This makes it possible for a number of hospitals and healthcare companies to now sit and wonder: How are we going to get this done? How are we going to make functional benefits? How are we gonna get to the finish line? In addition, you meet a paycheck, which we're now in. 5 pst has been added to this year's budget. wages and salaries of the health care system. We have received a signal that, besides that, there will be no compensation from the central authorities, whose wage-fixing means higher growth. We've looked at the requirements that have come in, and it's approaching 7 pst. a difference of 2 pst. Each percentage is 500-600 million. kr annually in additional expenditure for health enterprises. This could result in a number of offers being hit once again, unless this is compensated by the central authorities. My question to the Council of State is as follows: when you see the end of this payroll, will the Council of State be involved and contribute extra funds if it turns out that the growth is higher than 5 pst. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e226	Firstly, the money spent on hospitals this year represents the best settlement ever in Norwegian history. Then it's true that some hospitals have migration challenges for the current year. It is mainly about the fact that some hospitals have not complied with the Stortingen decision, but have spent more money than they have been put to. We have to end that, because if you don't have control of the economy, you can't give the best possible treatment and have the right priority for those who actually need the help. The payroll should not I mean anything about now. We've put what Mr. Nesvik here says in the budget statement for the current year, and I'm not going to think anything about the payroll or shoot either one or the other. Then the government and I are very concerned that there needs to be changes in Norwegian hospitals, not least in order to get a better quality. We have to distribute functions even better. We have to centralize some of the most demanding surgery in serious diseases. So there's going to be changes. But I believe that with the money that Norwegian hospitals have received for the current year, it is fully possible to make a good and equivalent health offer for patients throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e237	It was just to be lacking that the Council of State could say that we have got the best settlement for the hospitals ever. I think every health minister could say that in the years to come, because both the wage and the cost are increasing in the hospitals. I am absolutely sure that every year the funds for the health sector will be bigger than in the previous year, so that's not a good argument. I will not challenge the Council of State to enter into the wage settlement at all. My question is related to compensating for the higher costs that health care will derive from this. Will the Council of State be able to give a signal here that you will be involved and contribute if the salary increase is more than 5 pst., so that the offer to Norwegian patients does not get worse?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e244	The offer to Norwegian patients shall be very good also for the current year. The representative of Nesvik knows very well that I can't or should feel anything about the payroll and any relationships around it. We have put in money to handle the paychecks also for hospitals in the budget for the current year. Then the payroll has to go its way, and I'm not going to mean anything about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e249	It's going to be follow-up questions -- first Vigdis Giltun.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e252	Every week since the turn of the year, the media have taken up the economic situation of health businesses. This year's wage settlement provides a well-earned grant to many of those employed in the health sector. But the cuts and conversions we've seen so far this year have actually led to longer waiting lists and a worse patient offer. If the government chooses not to go in with extra funds as a compensation for an extra high salary settlement, this will exacerbate the situation. We are already seeing a long wait for radiological studies. We see that people pay private for this type of investigation. We see that they pay for treatments and also for operations at private clinics where the public paid earlier. Governments have put an end to it - an end to the use of all the available free private capacity. It can be wondered whether waiting time is now calculated according to the hospital budget and not according to patients’ needs not to get worse during the waiting period. Is that so?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e261	It should be believed that there was a great deal of poverty in the hospitals in this country. That's actually not the case. When I'm out and going, or when I get letters, e-mails and telephones, I actually get a lot of enquiries about how great people think our healthcare system is. It is clear that there are challenges, but the reality description the Progress Party is trying to produce here as a general picture of the hospital in Norway, that there are worse patient services, is not correct! We can treat many more diseases and many more people than we have ever done, for example. people with heart attacks, who before was not a certain age limit for surgery, but who could not be operated on up to a certain age because of the technology -- today there is actually no age limit -- or deaf, who had to remain deaf before, but on whom one today can operate a little thing behind the ear. That's good, and that makes people line up. It is also not correct that the waiting times have increased somewhat, it is only a small adjustment of two to three days. I think that's quite normal fluctuations. So it's wrong that we've put an end to all use of private businesses. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e272	Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve - to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e275	Providing health businesses with a healthy and sustainable economy and the population with a good supply means that structural intervention needs to be taken. The state councils have so far not made it. We now have a wage settlement that, together with the lack of structural intervention, will help health businesses to have greater financial problems. This means that the promises made by the Prime Minister in the election campaign cannot be carried out as promised. The Prime Minister promised that the construction of a new hospital in Molde and the new Children's Department in Ålesund could be started if the enterprises had the power to balance. They have. What will the Council of State do to comply with the pledge of the election campaign on new Molde Hospital and the new Children's Department in Ålesund?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e284	There is no change in those election promises, and Health Mid-Norway has got more money to invest than any other region in the country, among others. Because we're in the process of Norway's largest land-based construction project at St. Olav's Hospital, which is going to be an outstanding, great hospital. It's planned for a new hospital in Molde. It's coming. It is also planned for a new Children's Department in Ålesund. It's coming. But Health Mid-Norway has the framework they have at their disposal, as all the other regions of this country, and they have prioritised St Olav's Hospital as No. 1, two DPSs as No 2 and saw Mold and Eel. So it's coming. There's no stopping the planning of the hospital in Molde.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e293	Laila Bavøy - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e296	The hearing of the Committee following the State Council statement on the financial situation of hospitals has confirmed that major changes, the winding-up of patient services and the closure of departments and hospitals are underway. The private ideal hospitals are also in a huge mess. If it turns out that we get a paycheck as high as 7 pst, it's of course a pleasure for the employees, but the ideal private hospitals will have an extra burden on an already completely unmanageable situation, namely increased pension costs, as the council knows well. Here the Council of State has promised to follow up from the Government. So far we haven't got a solution, and it's unreasonable, as the private hospitals themselves say, that they have to wait until revised before they know this. So in addition, there's a hugely high paycheck. How in the world has the Government planned to solve this for the private hospitals as well? Or, how do you want to solve it - because they have to get funds, they can't handle it by themselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e306	First of all, I want to say that very many of the private ideal hospitals we have are doing a very big and great job, and we're dependent on them. A lot of patients depend on the job they do. When it comes to the issue of pension expenditure, I have previously said, as the representative knows, that the Government is also working on it, and we are coming back later in the revised national budget. It is in a month's time, and I have no answer but that today. In the case of wage-fixing, the representative Davøy, who has been on both sides in terms of wage-fixing, both in government and in trade-union, also knows that there is something that government councils cannot or should not respond to at the time we are now in.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e315	Lars Sponheim - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e318	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Finance, since the question is about the consequences of the hospital payroll, and also beyond that. I certainly believe that it is demanding enough for our dealers in both the state and the municipality to find a solution, whether or not they should be informed by Stortinget, as we have seen today, that they should only excrete, for the state pays. There has been a result in the private sector of 5.6 pst. The budget says 5 pst. increase. I think I'm going to live with that. Equally, wage-fixing is demanding, as well as the consequences, because we may be at a break point in the Norwegian economy, where prices and perhaps interest can be taken as a consequence of an excessive wage settlement. I think it is time for the Minister of Finance to have the opportunity to hold a moderate appeal in Stortinget. This is the occasion, Minister of Finance! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e329	I am so happy that I can trust the representative Sponheim, for now I have been sitting behind here for a while without having the opportunity to point out what was just one of his points in the question. No one can seriously believe that the Minister of Health can stand here and say: No, now only the hospitals have to negotiate, we take the bill. It's completely impossible, everybody understands, it doesn't matter. It's true, as Sponheim's representative says, that we are now facing a demanding wage settlement. The private sector agrees on a framework of 5.6 pst., and the requirements we so far see in the public sector are significantly higher than that. Of course, I will not go into commenting on the details of the settlement that is, but I think it is wise to look back on the lessons we have from 2002 and 2003, when we were at the end of a boom, and when we got a hit that meant that more than 30 000 jobs were lost in the competitive sector. That is the warning that must go to everyone, because that is the reality. We don't quite know how this high economic activity surfaced out, but the challenge is there.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e340	Then the appellant must go and sit down. [[muttering in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e343	I have a question for the Minister of Health. An older lady who was admitted to the hospital again shortly after she was discharged was met with the following: “We have been waiting for them” - implicitly: they expected a quick cleaning. This opinion testifies to the fact that elderly patients are discharged from hospitals without having received the treatment they need, or receive adequate treatment and care when they come home. A city councillor in Oslo said this to the evening post the other day: ‘We have many serious and shocking examples of elderly, sick people being discharged from hospitals, without, in our opinion, being fully investigated or treated.’ It's simply inhuman. A study from Akershu University Hospital showed that ten patients died the same day they were sent home, and 40 died the first week. The study shows that sick elderly people are sent back and forth between hospitals and hospitals. The focus on the economy in hospitals is on the patient flow. The pressure for rapid printing is increasing, particularly affecting the sickest of the elderly. Today’s funding system focuses too much on efficiency through the number of treated patients over quality. This also affects the interaction between the hospital and the municipality. My question to the Council of State is: what will the Council of State do to prevent the sickest elderly from becoming wasteballs - or should we say continue to be wasteballs - between health care levels?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e361	Older people shouldn't be throwing balls in our health care system. I am aware, as the representative of Davøy, that unfortunately there are examples of this. I believe one of the most important challenges facing us in the healthcare system is that we are able to achieve an interaction between primary health services, care centres, hospitals and hospitals. I'm concerned that people are not supposed to be printed before they should be printed. But it's not like older patients need to be typed in if they don't have to. Today, there is a situation in which I am absolutely sure that many elderly patients who are in hospital and are very sick, some of them dying, are admitted to hospital when they should have been allowed to end their life in the hospital, and have received treatment and a worthy follow-up there. I think Akershus University Hospital is a good example of how this can be done. They have established a contact telephone that all hospitals in Akershus can call and say, for example.Harry Hansen, 89 years old, is now so sick, what should we do? In a very large number of cases, patients can stay in the hospital and not be driven into Aarhus, following such changes leading to older people. So I think there is also a lot to be able to treat and help especially older people in hospitals and in the municipalities where they belong. It's this interaction we have to get even better at. The government, as the representative is sure to know, has concluded an agreement with the Municipalities' Central Association at national level. We assume that this also happens at local level in all counties and in all hospitals and with all municipalities. Practical solutions need to be found to ensure that we do not experience situations such as those in the example of the representative Davøy here. We fully agree on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e372	The reality is that this is happening all over the country. It's nice that some hospitals in Oslo might have found a solution to this, and we can probably find some good examples elsewhere. But too many older people experience this every day. On several occasions, the Council of State has also assured that hospital priorities at the hospital level should not occur, but that sick elderly people are being discharged prematurely. The sick elderly must receive the treatment they need. There is a need for increased competence in the disease of the elderly at all levels of specialist health services in municipalities. But there is also a need to take a number of new governance measures, and more governance is what the Council of State refers to right now. The government announced in the care notification, which came a year and a half ago, that in 2007 they would present an action plan to strengthen specialist health services for older people and that they would follow up the funding of the plan in the government budget for 2008. My question is whether the Council of State can explain where this initiative was.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e381	It comes, and there will also come more and, I would say, better governance to achieve interaction than is the case today. I think some of the best example we have in addition to the way Ahus has done it - and we have many other good examples too - is Søbstad in Trondheim, which I am absolutely sure the representative Davøy knows. Many elderly patients receive good follow-up and treatment there, which means that more people survive and receive more valuable treatment than they would have received in hospitals. I think we need more places like that, and the government is now also looking at how we can learn from it and get more like that in the country. So I just want to repeat that using the input-driven funding down to the department level, as has happened in some hospitals, is not in line with the legislation. It gets tightened up in front of the hospitals. And, of course, it's like older patients like everyone else are going to get very good and equivalent treatment and not be throwing balls. But there's a challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e390	There will be follow-up questions - Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e393	A patient almost 90 years of age with Alzheimer's was suddenly sent home from the hospital to an empty house, even though both the registrar and the hospital doctor felt that the patient was unable to handle himself. The result is often a worsening of the disease and a further need for treatment and care. Such practices create insecurity both within the patient and among relatives and clearly show that we need a guarantee of dignity, a guarantee that the needs of the elderly will be given priority first. This has been agreed and committed by the Council of State. So my question to the Minister of Health and Health is quite specific: When does the guarantee of dignity come?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e399	I can confirm that we are on the basis of the agreement we have concluded, among other things. with the Christian People's Party, and I'm very happy about it. It also applies at this point. The government is working on it right now, so I can't say exactly today, but we're going to get there as soon as we're ready for it. So to the example the representative has of the 90-year-old person. Once again, that's not the way it's supposed to be. It has to be clear. Therefore, it is also as important the grant proposed by the Government and to which the Storting has given its consent, in order to build more hospitals and also more short-term places. Because it seems quite obvious, without knowing the example, that the person - insofar as one should not have been treated in the municipality, but if one had to go to hospital - should at least have been discharged to a hospital, possibly a short-term place, and not have been sent home to an empty house. That means that we need more short-term places and more long-term places, and that's why the new grant that municipalities can apply for is also a very positive grant to get it in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e406	Harald T. Nesvik - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e409	I'm 100 pst. agree with the Council of State that it is important to improve the interaction between specialist health services and the municipalities, and in particular given that we are now most likely to write to many people in hospitals, including those in hospitals. from nursing homes. The reason for this is, among other things, that we do not have enough competence in individual hospitals to properly care for patients there. In addition, when a patient is in hospital, the municipality and the hospital have to cover medical costs, but if the patient is in hospital, the healthcare company has to take the costs when the patient is there. Ergo is actually a situation where we have a lack of competence in the municipalities as well as a funding system related to these services that opposes us starting and doing an even better job in the individual nursing home. My question to the Council of State is: in the dialogue you have with KS, and also in the state apparatus, do you want to look at what's going on with the funding system here, so that you don't have anything contradictory, I kept saying, but what you actually want here?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e414	I can confirm that we are now looking at many different proposals and arrangements to get to what we call the seamless offer, so that patients should not notice if they are here or there, I would have almost said, but that we ensure good offers at all stages, and that the interaction goes painless. Then I fully agree with the representative Nesvik -- I believe one of the biggest challenges we have in this area is that there are too many elderly people who end up in hospitals that should have been treated in the hospital and in the municipality. There is a need for expertise, and it is quite clear - and I also agree - that medical services in hospitals need to be strengthened. That is why we have now asked for an overview from all the counties and municipalities of how it is done, what action we should take to get more doctors in there, as they have at the Red Cross Hospital in Bergen - fantastic setup. We should have more of that in the whole country, and we get to it, and we get to a better link with the hospitals -- and I'm optimistic there, once again the example of Ahus -- we'll also be able to provide both a more dignified situation and better treatment for the elderly, where they don't get dragged out and out of hospitals, as the situation is too many today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e421	No pay - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e424	It is not so difficult to agree on the problem description, and I fully agree with the Council of State that the problem may be that too many older people are written in, and not that they are printed out. But the question is, why does this happen? The answer to that is obvious, that's because it's in the hospitals the doctors exist. There is a need for doctors in our hospitals, and the doctors do not exist where the elderly exist, and where there is a need for medical expertise. Most of these shipments to hospitals are due to the absence of adequate medical expertise in which the patient is located. A simple grip proposed by the Right, I would like to hear the State Council's comment again: why can't you do anything about such a simple phenomenon as the pay gap between doctors working in the hospital sector and doctors working in hospitals? Couldn't it at least be a grip?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e429	I don't want to comment on salary issues at this point either, except that I know it's a challenge. Then they've done something very interesting in the Health West, because there's been a situation where more hospitals have been employed, among other things. more doctors than they've had money for, and we've also seen that some of them haven't dealt with the national framework for how many doctors are going to be hired in hospitals. It's now tightened into the Health West. This has meant that you have filled up many vacant permanent homes, among others. in Sogn and Fjordane, which was before empty. So we're now working on tightening up at the hospitals, getting more people into the municipalities and more people into the hospital. I also believe that one catch of several in this area is what has now been agreed to, namely that doctors in the tour must also have practice in the nursing home. We hope and believe that there will also be one of many contributions to find the work there interesting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e434	Gunvald Ludvigsen - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e437	We hear in this debate that older people are throwing balls, older people are turning door spaces, and we're always talking about unworthy situations. And then we are all a few people about interaction - we are so many about that, and that is the great mantra in this debate. We want to, but we don't get it-- at least we don't get it to work well enough. Governments today have been involved in different things, but here there must be some structural grips and some stronger incentives to get to this which we are all a few about to happen. So my main question here is, what will the Council of State do to achieve a real interaction between the specialist and primary health services, and to achieve a truly holistic patient course, or, as the Council of State itself was involved, a truly seamless service?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e442	I'm probably a little more optimistic than the representative Ludvigsen, because I want to say that we're going to get it done. But we are not quite in the goal today, and therefore I believe that there must also be more pressure on it. That's why we're now going through different arrangements to look at how we can do this even better, and also in that area maybe can control something more. In addition to what many have already had in mind, to strengthen the competence of the municipalities, which I believe is one of the most important things we can do, the government also wants to strengthen its efforts with more outpatient teams. We want to get more district medical centers that are closer to where people live. It will also help elderly patients, and we also believe that our local hospitals, of which we have many - and all of them to pass - should deal with older patients more closely than is the case with some hospitals today. But basically, I think, in this area, we have to make sure that those who need help and treatment, and in this case older, sick people, get good treatment where they are, so they don't move so much in and out of hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e447	We're going to go to the next main question, which could be the last one -- it's asking what Sponheim is able to go up!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e451	Thank you for that, President! My question goes to the State Council Halvorsen. It's been a week since we had completed wage settlements in the private sector in the LO-NHO area, and the wage settlement also made decisive clarifications regarding the AFP and the future finalisation of our pension system. There is reason to say that we should be happy in this country because we have put in place a comprehensive pension reform that provides savings for the next generations in a way that seems to be happening with harmony and tranquillity and broad upturn. That's basically good. But then in retrospect we have to do some reflections on whether this is the sustainable system we're going to be based on further. It is true that when the Pension Commission in its time put forward its decision, it was committed to adding the State contribution to the AFP into the general pension scheme, which meant that the contribution made by the State, which all taxpayers contribute, will also benefit everyone. Then the solution, the one on which I and part of the opposition in the Storting are involved, was based on a pension settlement where one accepts an AFP scheme that goes to someone. There was the assessment that it was necessary to have the necessary calm and stability around such a system. It would be politically impossible to get to anything else. Then it is also true that what happened last week has led to further State contributions to the AFP scheme that is therefore paid by everyone, but not received by everyone. There are many questions of principle, whether it is sustainable over a long period of time that only those organised in the LO-NHO area should be able to draw the bills on all citizens' money through the treasury, or whether one should further develop this for more. My question to the Council of State is: does she see no fundamental concern that we are now using, after this settlement, so much government money to an AFP scheme that goes exclusively to the trade unions?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e466	I am very pleased that the representative Sponheim has such a nuanced and analytical approach to this issue. He started well with a language usage around the agreement concluded between the social partners, and the letter from the prime minister to it, with a completely different decibel level. I agree with the representative Sponheim that we should be very happy to have a pension reform in place. There are many demanding questions that remain in this regard. One of the demanding questions was the AFP. Then I think the opposition should also be glad that the solution that has now come into place is the main thing. The most costly thing is the phase-in that is done in the context of the adjustment of living age, which is about the social security system, and which benefits all pensioners with the rights of the people. That's where the main lead and the main thrust of the solution you've come up with is. The representative of Sponheim is right that in this solution there are government pledges - 80 billion dollars on the population's return and 14.5 billion dollars on the AFP. These are costs allocated over 40 years. The maximum cost of a single year for this mark-up on the AFP is approx. 700 million. kr. The discussion that Sponheim draws up, whether you're served with a system where the state is contributing to a system that does not include all pensioners, but the organized parts of the working life, as the AFP does, I think is a reasonable and important discussion to address. But I think we in Norway are well served to have such close cooperation between the social partners and the state. We have a lot of advantages left over, for example. on how we develop the Nordic welfare model, which we all serve.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e477	I thank you for your answer, which provides the basis for interesting reflections. I will not dwell on the fact that as party leader in the Left I have learned from SV's party leader that as the leader of a small party it is sometimes necessary to stand on a taboo to get the word, and then to make good comments. I still want to challenge the state council for further development, because I believe that the AFP and the calm and calm we seem to get around the pension agreement now, it is important to take care of it. That'll be the left of it. And then we'll see how we move on. I believe that a sustainable system must be based on the fact that state AFP contributions need to be extended to cover everyone in this country and that it will be an important theme in the future. I have registered reactions from other parties that there seems to be quite a broad dissension that also non-organised, traders, farmers, etc. should take part in this common good. The left will work for it, and it may look like it's a majority, perhaps even in today's greatness, to work for such a development. Will the head of SV also be involved in working for such a development in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e484	I am very pleased that the representative Sponheim has managed to get down from the taboo, in many ways. It also makes the possibility of continuing a proper pension debate more interesting now. I mean, and that was what was the recognition from the opposition parties also when the pension agreement was entered into in the Stortinget, that an AFP scheme related to the pension settlement was earned. That is what the Government has now fulfilled through the letter that the Prime Minister has written to the parties. I believe that the cooperation that has been between the authorities and the organisations in this context, that we have a good organized working life, that we have the AFP, that we have a deduction for expenditure on the union quota, is a good investment in a working life that we all serve on in Norway. Then, of course, I am not going to prevent anyone from taking the discussion about the AFP further, but in SV there is a broad dissension about the AFP system we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e491	It will be follow-up questions - Leif Helge Kongshaug.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e494	In the course of a few evening and night hours, the LO got in place a historic, golden-edge agreement for its members, of course to the delight of the LO, but perhaps also to the surprise of many. One thing is that it became a precious night for the big community, which is going to pay the bill for part of the country's workers, the LO-organized. Another thing is the relationship of freedom of organisation, which is an important element of a modern democratic society. The Government has now concluded an agreement to benefit from and participate in the development of wealth as a retired person, one as an employee must be organised. Is the Council of State concerned about the agreement reached in view of the fundamental democratic principle of freedom of organisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e501	I believe that the picture that is now given by the solution you have come up with regarding the AFP is very signified. That's because $80 billion is about changing how we introduce the lifestyle adjustment. It benefits all pensioners who have rights in popular fear. It has nothing to do with being organized and unorganized. There are costs distributed over 40 years, and it is to build a bridge between the old and the new pension system. So there's no special advantage to any organized at all. Then you've put on a hit on the AFP. The value of it, as it now stands, is 14.5 billion kroner distributed over 40 years. I understand that someone can raise the fundamental issues around this, that the state contributes to a system that social partners have negotiated. But I think we're good at it. I think we're served with a system where you have advantages as a trade union organization.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e508	Jan Tore Sanner - to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e511	No matter how the Minister of Finance turns around and turns this around, the paycheck implies that Norwegian taxpayers have to go out with about DKK 100 billion more in the coming years. It is a decision that is actually taken by the social partners, not by government and big business. Does the Council of State think that there is a reasonable way to give priority to taxpayers' money? Today, in the debate, we have heard the desire to prioritise more money for hospitals and health care. We have heard in other debates the desire to prioritise more money for roads and railways. We have heard in other debates again the desire to prioritise money for knowledge and school. Would the Minister of Finance, if she stood completely free and could dispose of DKK 3-5 billion extra in a year, prioritise the AFP solution, and then include the 80 billion, or would she give priority to poverty reduction, health care, knowledge and ways?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e518	I'm very surprised at the tone from the Right in this discussion, because you add up to an argument that can't end with any other conclusion from the Right side than that you go against what's now on the table. I must say I'm wondering, if that's the way the Right is going to stand on the outside of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e523	Governments can answer the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e529	Yeah, I'll get to that. It's true that what we've done now has a cost. 100 billion is going to sound huge, but it's going to be distributed over 40 years. And it's not that this is going to be an extra cost compared to today's pension, but it's going to be a less savings compared to the pension reform that's in there. In sum, this means freeing funds for distribution to other welfare schemes, but not least, there is now a broad consensus about a pension system that allows many workers who do not currently earn one penny more of a job to do so, and we need that labour force to create a good welfare society.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e534	Robert Eriksson - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e537	I want to go back to the very question of Sponheim. Because, in the context of the wage settlement and settlement, or the agreement between the parties and the country, all trade unions will receive an additional pension of 0.314 pst. when they're 62 years old. Does the Minister for Finance think that it is fair and solidarity that all trade unions should receive an additional pension? If you earn 300,000 kroner, you get an additional pension only you are trade-unioned at 38 000 kroner a year, while those who are unorganised have to pay the bill. Is it fair for us to have two performance rules in the new pension scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e542	The fundamental question here is whether it is reasonable to have an AFP scheme that is not only paid by the social partners, i.e. employers and employees, but where the State also contributes. Now I would like to stress once again that all those who have rights in popular security are the greatest winners of the settlement that has been concluded. That's because this change or phase-in of the lifestyle adjustment, which is a little bit softer now than it was before, benefits everyone. That we then have an arrangement with the AFP, I believe we are about whether we are served with a working life that is organized, and the answer to that is in my opinion, in the opinion of the government and in the opinion of the SV that we are. It's about a lot of things. It's about how we organize wage-fixing, it's about how we conduct negotiations, it's about the benefits we as a society have of a well-organised working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e549	Hans Olav Syversen - to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e552	It was about taboos in the main question. Someone might say that the government's contribution to the AFP case was also a contribution to hold some on the taboos a little longer, but I shouldn't say anything more about that. I thought it was interesting that the Minister of Finance opened up some dilemmas that the difference between those who get rid of the AFP, and those who can't, can become so big that it can rock the upsurge of and legitimacy of the entire pension system. And it's not so strange if you've been working for 40 years without the possibility of a collective agreement and you see that you lose tens of thousands of dollars by not having had it, and you don't have the opportunity to have an AFP, and you have to pay through the tax bill for those who actually know it. So my question to the finance minister is, when she sees this dilemma, how will the government follow up more closely to see if this also contributes to weakening the overall legitimacy of the pension system?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e559	The representative of the Seven draws me way too far. I think it must be reasonable to be in a discussion and allow myself to do some reflections around it. But I've been very, very clear that I think we're served with a well-organised working life, and in sum, we're served with an AFP system that's not only financed by the social partners, but where the state also makes its contribution. I think it's legitimate that we have that discussion, that questions are asked about it. What I want to encourage people is to work for an increasingly organized working life, make sure you're part of a trade union and have a collective agreement where you work. We have a great deal of advantages in terms of employment rights, in terms of social security, in terms of the contagion effects that it has in terms of the link between employee rights and the follow-up of VAT and taxes and all of these things. All of this is part of the fissure layer that the Norwegian welfare state is.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e566	That's going to be another main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e569	My question goes to the Minister of Finance. I have recorded that at the beginning of this great period, the Minister of Finance was one of those who really talked about doing something special to combat poverty in Norway during this period. I absolutely believe that the Minister of Finance was honest that she had a sincere desire for this. But then, over the period, the Minister of Finance has said that combating poverty in Norway and eradicating poverty now is clearly not something to be done, but that it should nevertheless be important as an objective. It is not very many weeks since we discussed in this Chamber a case where the Progress Party made a number of proposals to facilitate the situation of many victims of debt in Norway and improve the position of taxpayers in relation to cases against the Equations Offices, how many have major problems and also come into a debt trap. We know that many minimum pensioners today have living conditions below what the EU says is the poverty line. We have about 300,000 minimum-age pensioners and young people who are struggling to pay the bill, cope with high living costs, etc. Overall, the Progress Party in this Chamber has promoted a number of proposals, including: at the latest in the autumn to increase the minimum pension to 2 G. But all the proposals we have made have been consistently put to the vote. Now we are approaching the last state budget that this government is currently sitting to present, and I am curious to know: when are you going to make concrete proposals and follow up concrete promises to combat poverty? Is the Minister of Finance satisfied with the job so far done, and what can she point out that has been done to a significant extent to combat poverty in Norway and meet many poor people?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e584	I am, if possible, even more concerned with combating differences and poverty now than I was a few years ago. Not least when I see top executives in business now allow themselves to leave the big community, not listen to anyone and contribute to their own additions and schemes giving them salary increases and income increases that others can only dream of, I am intensely concerned about stressing the value we have in Norwegian society, how important it is that we have a society with small differences between people. When it comes to combating poverty, we do it with a lot of tools. The main instrument is to ensure that as much as possible the opportunity to try out in the labour market. Fortunately, we have historically low unemployment that gives it the opportunity, but it will still be so that many people have no chance of participating, no matter how you organise for a job participation. This is the important job that the Minister of Labour and Inclusion is now doing to strengthen the rights of social assistance clients in terms of social assistance - it is on the initiative of the Civil Ombudsman - and it is about how we can make good social security arrangements. The previous social security settlement was a very good social security settlement. In addition, you should continue working with both the minimum pension and young people. Of course, this is also the case for several other support schemes, for example. housing support schemes and many other things that are important for those who are struggling with poor advice. I am very pleased that the tax rate has been one of the public authorities that has listened to people who have come into tax debt because they were unable to deal with a tax charge that at the end of the day might have been quite small, and where all the window envelopes were fined and they left to answer the phone. Now the tax rate is running out of business, calling people, getting into agreements. That makes it possible to prevent the kind of crises that we know many people can get into.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e593	In some areas, as the Minister points out, something has been tried. But these are the big grips I'm asking for, because the big grips are missing. We know that those who work specifically for poverty, for example. Here in the city, in Oslo, the Poor House and others, there is an even greater influx of people now than you did two and a half years ago, when this government joined. It was mentioned by the Minister that the social security system was good. Well, that's it. But the problem is the many years of lag, where one hangs again, and there are great challenges, especially in relation to the group of minimum-age pensioners and young disabled people, who have little to cope with in one of the world's richest and even to the most expensive countries to live in. It could be a simple grip, for example. to increase the minimum pension proposed by the Party to the Progress Party to 2 G in order to facilitate the day-to-day functioning of this Group. It would cost something about NOK 2.5 billion. I have registered that the minister disagrees with such a proposal...
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e601	Now the Council of State has to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e604	I've been on a one-time pledge for minimum pensioners earlier in Stortinget, and it brought us up in the following dilemma: Many who had a small supplementary pension they had earned, especially women, lost supplementary pension and became minimum pensioners. It was very painful for many, and I received many enquiries the time that was just about a long professional life, but with relatively little income, there was no payoff in retirement. And that's dilemma. Now we're going to have a new pension scheme where the minimum pension can be avoided, because you can make up your pension money anyway. What I think is the great dilemma of the Progress Party in this matter is that Ulf Leirstein has been out and put the ultimate in economic policy if there is to be a new majority. Siv Jensen canceled it. So these extra 2.5 billion that Leirstein wants to give to the minimum pensioners, we don't know if that's going to happen. For whose right is to determine economic policy, the Right is to set the right framework. And the right has never resorted to doing anything near this for the minimum pensioners. Then I'm afraid we're left with tax credits for those who have a lot, instead of a single penny for the minimum pensioners. So we will continue with good social security arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e611	There will be follow-up questions - first Gjermund Hageseter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e614	Clearly, the three socialist parties were very focused on the fight against poverty before going to elections in 2005. Afterwards, that fight has been toned down somewhat. Now it seems more important to make the rich poor poorer than to make the poor richer. I think that's the wrong focus, because it helps very little those who have too little to walk with. Some of the problems for the poor in Norway are the high tax burden we have. The government has not done anything, but they have increased fees in a number of areas. The fuel charge has increased, the food tax is also increased, and some are also prepared to increase the food tax further. This leads to the greatest burden on the poor. My question to the Minister of Finance is: does the Minister of Finance not see that high taxes and additional charges pose the greatest problem for the poor and not for the rich?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e623	Firstly, I very much disagree with the Advancement Party that it has no significance what you do in terms of, for example, what you do. taxation of the richest. It is clear that it is important if the Progress Party is to have an impact on the removal of the property tax. That would give the hundreds of richest seven million. kr more this year. You had to use triplets to give all of the hundreds of bills to those who have a lot. We're using that money to redeploy and make good services, and it's about the splinter layer we have in the Norwegian community. The representative of Hagesetter is well-known that we are staying at the 2004 level in terms of taxes during this ageing period. That means we're redistributing. That means that if we propose a green fee, for example, increased - which is why there are good reasons - we will facilitate other taxes and taxes. And it benefits people with poor advice, because it is precisely them 'on request' for which we facilitate taxes and taxes. For example, 300,000, about half of them retired, are now dropping property taxes, and between 800,000 and 900,000 have received lower taxes on wealth with us. It's real redistribution and it benefits those who have little to go with.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e630	Svein Fleet - to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e633	The Minister of Finance has just spent several billions on the table in increasing annual wage-earning appropriations for a gold-plated pension for all those in employment, in particular the LO-organised. On the other hand, the poor - without jobs, without pension rights of particular importance - see that the promise from Soria Moria to eliminate poverty is not near being met. What does the Minister of Finance and Party leader Kristin Halvorsen say about this priority, in the meeting with the poor?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e640	It is an obvious, planned misunderstanding that not all pensioners get the benefit of what we have now agreed on. Minimum pensioners will also benefit from a more gradual introduction of this lifestyle adjustment rather than what else was there. Pensioners, including the minimum pensioners, and those with small pensions, also benefit from the changes made to the pension reform in terms of their annual salary settlement. Then, of course, I meet many people who are impatient about achieving more in combating poverty. That's the way it's going to be, and we're going to go all the way after this. But I haven't met a single one who's been yelling at the Right. There is not one person who has said: No, now I really think you should click on some real tax slips to those who have a lot, because it will fight poverty. On the contrary, the great fight against increased differences is linked to the job done to combat poverty, and that is where we have to go to do even better than we have now. But the right does not have the answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e647	Then the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e652	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. - It is deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Line Henriette Holten Hemdal to the Minister for Oil and Energy, is absent, as the questioner is not present. Question 7, from the representative of Elisabeth Aspaker to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is addressed by Mr Sonja Irene Sjøli. Question 9, from the representative of Øyvind Halleraker to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is addressed by Peter Skovholt Gitmark. Question 12, from the representative Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide to the Minister for Research and Higher Education, is addressed by the representative Inge Wohnning. Question 13, from the representative Sonja Irene Sjøli to the Minister for Defence, has been withdrawn. Question 16, from the representative Svein Flätten to the Minister for Transport, has been transferred to the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, who is directly responsible. Question 26, from the representative of Øyvind Korsberg to the Minister for Renewal and Administration, will be answered by the Minister for Children and Gender Equality on behalf of the Minister for Renewal and Administration, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e690	This question falls because the representative is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e703	This question lapses, as the representative is not present in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e709	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: «The article in the Official Journal of Bergen on 31 March states that a new cable technology can replace the traditional options for air voltage at an affordable cost. Several locations in the country are planned to carry out controversial air voltages. There appears to be a variety of views in the scientific community as to whether the new technology is a current alternative to the planned air voltage. How does the Council of State assess the opportunities offered by new technologies in relation to the planned deployment of lines?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e723	I believe the representative Kvassheim raises an important and interesting question, because I am very interested in recording the signals from the cable manufacturers about a technology development that gives hope for reduced natural interference and the costs of wiring in the future. I am pleased that Statnett has entered into cooperation with technology suppliers to further develop and qualify new technologies for use in the power system. I also welcome the fact that Statnett and Svenska Kraftnet look at the possibilities for a pilot project where new technologies will be used to strengthen the transfer link between Norway and Sweden. However, this work is in a very early stage of analysis, and the decision on possible implementation on the Norwegian side is on time. It is premature to conclude on the technical, economic and environmental implications and possibilities of this technology for future power lines projects. But I'm very concerned about the early phase-in of new technology as far as it can be defended in a holistic way. New DC technology can become very topical where one is going to transfer power from point A to point B over long distances, and I am confident that Statnet is in close contact with the industrial and technological environments about this. In the case of new power lines that have come a long way in the planning process, the benefits of new technologies must also be balanced against the progress of work. If new technologies were to be used for central network reinforcements that have come a long way in concession treatment, the process of planning, impact assessments, hearings and public meetings had to be repeated in all respects. This takes several years for the largest projects. Tracing, etc. for planned projects are based on existing technology and trasé choices are leading for which municipalities, environmental values, etc. that are affected and that need to be investigated. Postponing planned projects pending new DC technology would result in considerable delays and uncertainties regarding the benefits that can be achieved. Several factors determine this. The most controversial issues require en route access points. In many types of terrain, it is not a good environmental measure with digging and/or detonation of cable trenches sail if these could be slightly narrower than existing cable technology. I do not wish here to preface the conclusions of individual cases that are subject to concessional treatment. In general, however, I can say that all relevant conditions will be carefully assessed and that the power lines that are granted a concession should be built as gently as possible, given at any time the technology available. Technological developments, however, are constantly taking place, and delays in processes need to be carefully assessed against society’s demands for good security of supply and the pressures that regional imbalances in the power system and price ranges represent. Finally, let me also warn against any oversimplification in the debate on controversial power lines, whether they should be suspended in the air or on the ground. As previously announced by the Stortinget, the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the NVE are developing a broad strategy for increasing environmental, aesthetic and community concerns in the planning of power lines. As previously announced, the strategy will be presented to Stortinget in an appropriate manner once the investigations have been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e738	Thanks for the answer. I record that the Council of State has a positive basic attitude to the opportunities offered by new technology, but that it is reserved for use in relation to projects that have come a long way in planning. I understand that different considerations need to be weighed in this regard. But will the Council of State ensure that, in relation to each project, it is assessed whether new technology can be applied, so that it is not only generally rejected that this is not relevant in relation to the current project and that an assessment is made in each project to see whether this can be an alternative? The second question I would like to ask is whether the Council of States will ensure that there is maximum pressure on the development of new technology, so that these solutions become available as soon as possible. It is obvious that the use of this possibility could be counterproductive in terms of projects and that pressure is being put on the development of new technologies.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e747	I have, as the representative Kvassheim suggested, a commitment to this. In a way, I look forward to the day we can manage to get rid of these wires in the air to a great extent and keep them in the ground in such a way that it is also environmentally friendly. It's a long way until we're in an ideal world in this area. I can answer the last question, which is that we want and have maximum pressure on the development of new technology. Statnett is offensive to this. They have agreements with technology producers, and much of that work is developing very positively and in fact faster than what we had believed and hoped for. I spent a lot of time now, so I'm going to answer the first question afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e756	Thank you for that. There are slightly different points of view in different environments on how far ahead the new opportunities lie. It is obvious that Statnet, which has great competence, should be listened to. But they are also a central player in many of these controversial projects. Can the Council of State ensure that other relevant environments will also be consulted in the context of the new opportunities that are opening up, so that the views that may be on possible progress can be identified, and what must be done to ensure great progress in this? The second question I would like to ask is related to the new guidelines for cable transmission, which the Council of State has notified to Stortinget. She has previously, in response to me, said that no decision will be taken in any of the controversial issues until these new cable drive guidelines are presented. Is that still the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e765	The plan is to get to Stortinget quickly with the guidelines on how to handle wires, cables. This means that it will go so fast that it will not be appropriate to make decisions related to these big, controversial tensions until this is managed in relation to the Storting. I can reply confirming that you want to have a look at the possibilities for wiring in all the projects, but with the recognition that there are some projects that are not well suited, among other things. Because in some areas we're going to have small power in, which is going to be more complicated some places if you put the wires on the ground. We are very concerned about technology development. Yes, there should be more actors than the ones Statnet is in direct contact with, with which we should follow closely in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e777	‘The report of the thorium committee had many recommendations for building competences around thorium and nuclear power, resource monitoring, etc. The Council of State has sent out the report at wide consultation, and many different groups are now spending a lot of time preparing thorough consultations. On the other hand, some interviews with the State Council give the impression that the report and the consultation recordings will be put in a drawer without being presented to the Stortinget. Can the Council of State confirm that the report will be submitted to the Stortinget in an appropriate form?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e784	The answer to the question is yes, but I will elaborate it a little more. Let me start by saying that I'm very aware of the great commitment the Progress Party has to thorium. I think that the Progress Party has contributed to an important public debate on this. It was not least the debate the Progress Party had set in motion, which provided the basis for my predecessor, Odd Roger Enoksen, to start work on the investigation mentioned in the question. I think knowledge is good. That is why the report that has come is important. That's why we're going to keep working on these questions. But at the same time, I think it is right to say that the Progress Party probably wants a more offensive bet in this field than the Government wants to facilitate. I got the report from the Thorium Committee delivered on February 15th this year. It is correct, as has been said, that the report has been sent to the hearing, and the deadline for replying is 31 May. We will go through the hearings carefully and evaluate them up against the report by the summer. Then we're going to brief the Storting about the outcome of the consultation round at an appropriate time and in an appropriate form. What I can identify with two lines below is: Yes, we will report on this work of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e795	First I have to say thank you for the answer. Is it to be understood that the Government does not intend to present a big message so that we get a review of the report at Stortinget, but that there is an orientation, which was the Council's choice of words? - There's a certain difference between that. If you're going to get a political commitment and get a new political confirmation of what kind of policy you're going to pursue, you should do that by sending out a big message, because then you get a debate that either confirms that the lines of the 1970s are solid, or you have to make some changes, so that would be okay. The reason for a call for a big message is that the need to build up skills in Norway is great. In recent years, nuclear competence at Norwegian institutes and even at Staten Radiation Protection has been reduced. Although one does not want a debate about building in Norway, it is good to know if one is going to build up competence in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e802	As the representative of Solvik-Olsen, I am also concerned with knowledge. That is why the work has been done, important, and I look forward to the debate in the future. When it comes to the presentation for the Storting, I'll evaluate it when I've seen the hearings. Depending on how extensive and controversial they are, I'll evaluate what form we're going to choose when we're going to report to Stortinget. In our quest for knowledge, it's important that we don't talk past each other. The priority of the government is now primarily related to strengthening efforts on renewable energy, both in a short-term and in a long-term perspective. Therefore, there will be no large, expensive practical initiative from the Government regarding thorium.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e809	I thank you once again for your answer. I understand very well that when it comes to realising a power project, one does not want to bet on thorium as a short-term or medium-term instrument in Norway. The government is very clear on that. One sees that Finland is working on nuclear projects, three-four projects are soon on the table, Russia is building, and they are even talking about liquid nuclear power to have energy for Shtokman, Sweden is rustling up, and England is now taking a new debate on nuclear power. Knowing that the competence of the Norwegian environment is very low, will the Council of State, regardless of the current consultation, take some form of initiative to strengthen Norwegian competence, so that we can at least understand and have the opportunity to assess the work being done in other countries? In case things happen, it's okay that we can also act in relation to the crises that happen, and then we have to have competent people, and not just have competence around the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e816	There is a wide and important international debate on nuclear power. The debate has changed rapidly as the climate challenges have increased on the international agenda. That is why it is necessary for us both to follow that debate and to ensure that we are able to participate in it in a competent manner. Now let's look at the recordings that come in the hearing. I'm going to promise that we're going to go through them carefully and really, and then we're going to assess whether there are things we're going to follow up on in order to strengthen the Norwegian knowledge environment so that we know that the administration also has professionally strong environments to attract in the international debate that's going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e826	I have the following questions for the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘The Narvik High School, HIN, has reduced the number of Russian quota students from 90 to about 90. 15 in 2010 according to the Government's plans. According to the Government, it is not of particular importance that Russian quota students at the Narvik High School contribute in connection with the government’s Northern Territory operation. Few Russian students will also weaken the foundation of higher education. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs agree that the reduction of HIN's student quota from Russia also contributes to weakening our North Sea bet and Russia contact?»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e835	The scheme for the State Loan Fund for Education for Foreign Students in Norway comprises 1 100 places of study per year. years. Of these, 800 are for students from developing countries and 300 for students from the countries of the Western Balkans, Eastern Europe including Russia and Central Asia. For the period 2008-2011, an indicative maximum quantity of allowances has been established so that no individual institution can normally be allocated more than one allowance per. 100 students at the institution. At the same time, priority is given to quality and the maximum level is not absolute. The Narvik University has been an active user of this scheme. In the 2007-2008 school year, the university has 32 study places for students from Russia. This is more than other Norwegian colleges, as evidenced by Narvik High School's good and active commitment to Russia. The representative mentions the number 90 in his question. That number must be quite a number of years back in time, as far as I have been brought to the for the whole of the 2000s, the figure for the highest 75 allowances from Eastern Europe, Russia and developing countries in the 2001-2002 study year was 58 in the 2007-2008 study year, including that mentioned 32 from Russia. It is the Ministry of Knowledge that has these figures, and they can also confirm that the number of allowances allocated to Narvik will be reduced to 42 in 2008-2009, so to 32 in 2009-2010 and thus to 15 places in the 2010-2011 study year. In view of the strong growth in Russia’s economy, it is not unnatural that the provision of Norwegian-funded places for Russian students in Norway is gradually being reduced. This does not mean that wider cooperation in education and research with Russia is downgraded - rather on the contrary. This means that more emphasis is placed on other ways of working together. In this context, I would like to point out the new North Region Grant Scheme, in conjunction with the Northern Region Strategy of the Government, which was introduced in 2007 for a three-year period. For the 2008/2009 school year, 59 such scholarships have been awarded to universities and colleges in northern Norway, 27 of which to Russia. I would also like to mention that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is financing a new programme of cooperation with Russia in higher education and research, with a framework of 12 million. kr per. years in the period 2007 to 2010. Furthermore, education and skills development are central to a number of cooperation projects between Norway and Russia in the north. Sectors such as environmental protection and resource management, energy and industrial development, health and social protection are a priority. In my view, therefore, cooperation between Norway and Russia in the field of education and research appears to be very active - and also an important part of the North Region initiative. At the same time, it is necessary to take into account the political and economic development of Russia in the choice and arrangement of instruments. In any case, it will continue to be so that teaching and research institutions in North Norway will play an active role in Norway's cooperation with Russia in the north in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e861	I thank the Foreign Minister for the answer, who was very impressed that he has sought help in another department. You have to have a lot of respect for that, but I think it's a very technocratic approach to a problem that develops. In the north, therefore, there is a measure that is proven to work, which is among the very best in the Northern Region of the Government, and which the Government itself places on and mentions as a successful measure. Why does one want a policy that helps to say something about one of the few green branches that we have - and that is a good example of the North Region initiative? My question must then be: will the Foreign Minister, after perhaps he has thought a little about it, ensure that the Russia quota is removed from the quota of 1 100 to which he himself referred?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e870	I don't think removing that quota would prove to be very helpful. We want to focus on Russia in terms of this quota. As I have pointed out, there are also a number of other schemes that attract Russian students to Norwegian educational institutions. I myself was in Steinkjer yesterday and met Russian students at the High School in the North Trøndelag, HiNT. These were students who had completed studies in Norway, had been at home in Russia and were now back to further studies, funded in part by Russia and in part by Norway. Education cooperation - the representative mentioned Narvik, but we also see it at the College in Bodø, among other things, in a strong environment - we must continue to have it. But here, as in other areas, we must also take into account that Russia is today a better-managed country. In addition to having arrangements that are an incentive for Russians to come to Norway, we will see that the type of mechanism can also work with regard to the recruitment of Russian students.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e879	What the Foreign Minister is really saying today is a clear yes to the reduction of some of the things that have worked best so far in terms of the government's bet in the North Region context. A level of competence has been established in Narvik that has ‘grown through the roof’, thanks to the quota that has been held. When you develop offers in places in the country, and when you have a quota ceiling of 1,100 students - of which 800 from the developing world - it goes without saying that those who have been the first to develop offers must become the ones who have to step down the most. The answer is that the ‘left hand’ of the Government’s Northern Territory bet does not fully understand what the ‘right hand’ is doing. So my question remains: will the Government with open eyes really actively go in to build up the offer you have today? This applies to an offer in important interaction with Russia - an offer that we must have in place if we are to succeed in our North Region bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e888	I can say as much as that this is a question that we are going to follow continuously. I agree with the representative that education and exchange of competences are an important part. The educational institutions that have built up their skills in this area need to be particularly involved. I do not agree with the reality description provided by the representative, but I can promise him that, in the North Region bet and by the Minister of Education, this will be a field on which we should look closely. If there are unfairness and bias in this arrangement - as the representative suggested - we should like to go in and see if it can be dealt with with with liberalism. But, as I said, we must also take into account the framework we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e900	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘The management plan for the Barents Sea and the sea areas outside Lofoten is an important basis for further development in the northern regions. The plan will be updated in 2010. Still a great deal of knowledge is lacking to understand the consequences of human influence. What is the follow-up to the management plan for the purpose of monitoring the Lofoten and southern parts of the Barents Sea by 2010?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e909	According to St.meld. No 8 for 2005-2006, Total management of the marine environment in the Barents Sea and the sea areas outside the Lofoten [[Management plan]] The follow-up work of the management plan is coordinated by an inter-ministerial steering group chaired by the Ministry of the Environment and Development. At the directorate level, a monitoring group has been set up to coordinate monitoring of the sea area, a forum for cooperation on environmental risks related to acute pollution in the area and a technical forum responsible for monitoring and coordination of the overall professional work on ecosystem-based management of the sea area. The management plan is based on comprehensive knowledge of the sea. But it has also revealed significant knowledge needs - as the representative pointed out - particularly related to seabirds, bottom conditions and geology. The knowledge base should therefore be strengthened through monitoring, research and monitoring. This work is now devoted to considerable resources, and a great deal of attention is being paid. The MAREANO monitoring programme shall identify the bottom conditions and impact of human activities on the seabed. The SEAPOP monitoring and monitoring programme shall enhance knowledge of the prevalence and impact of seabirds. The survey of seabirds through Seapop is prioritised in the petroleum provinces of Northland VII, Troms II and at the edge of the egg. This work is on track in relation to updating the management plan. This work on monitoring the seabed through MAREANO is under way. The results of the monitoring in the priority areas Nordland VII and Troms II will be completed by 2010. Areas along the edge of the egg are expected to be clear only in 2010, if current funding is taken into account. The MAREANO programme has a total budget of 32.6 million in 2008. kr. Monitoring throughout the southern part of the Barents Sea will not be completed by 2010 with today’s funding. The size has been notified in letters from the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs in the context of the 2008 budget review. As the Stortinget has previously been briefed on, geological mapping is to be carried out in Northland VII and Troms II under the auspices of the Oil Directorate. This includes, inter alia: the collection of seismics. In 2007 and 2008, 70 million and 140 million respectively were granted. kr for geological survey in these areas. The appropriations cover the first and second phases of the programme. The final phase of the geological mapping programme shall, as is known, be implemented according to the plans in 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e930	I now record that the Council of State in and on its own confirms what we have heard from other teams, and that is the background to this issue, namely that in some areas today's funding is not such that you're going to be in the port of this in 2010, even if you're on the route with some of the research projects. This concern is linked to the fact that an important part of the Northern Region Strategy is also being able to extract more from oil and energy resources. This management plan and updating of the material are necessary in order to take the necessary decisions, such as: opening up extraction in Northland VI and Northland VII, possibly also in Troms II, and in other parts of the Barents area. There have been questions about whether there should have been a separate collective research programme about this whole complex, so that you could see where the earmarked money goes. My question to the Council of State is whether he will assess it, so in 2010 you don't say that because of lack of knowledge we can't go further with the oil and energy bet in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e939	I will not go into the details of the budget of one programme on which the Stortinget has been briefed. But I share the ambition of the representative of Solberg that in 2010 we will have sufficient knowledge to start with the first update of the management plan. It is an extensive material that must then be evaluated. I can confirm, after taking part in these discussions in the Government to provide budgetary resources for these programmes, that this is a priority, and it takes attention from other areas, because this is so important. Whether you needed a joint grip or not, I'm not going to answer it now. I have seen that the issue is quite transparent with SEAPOP, MAREANO and seismics. It's in there, and it covers most of it. So we have an ambition that we should be able to get a good knowledge base to look at the management plan in 2010. But what we also know, based on knowledge and the time left, is that full monitoring of the Southern Barents Sea and other parts of the Management Plan will require further knowledge and analysis beyond 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e946	Let me just say that I think it's important that we jointly actually manage to find the means that make us get to port in 2010. The lack of knowledge should not be the reason for the process to stop, nor should it be an excuse in relation to it. There will always be many forces who want to use that kind of excuse. We have been concerned on the Right that part of the general cuts that have been in the basic appropriations for higher education and research institutions also has an indirect effect, in the form that it builds up basic research, which is the background for some of this. It would have been nice if we could have got a complete overview of where we now feel that the lack of knowledge is, which disciplines should be strengthened, so that we can also have a proper management plan in the future, and that the audit is not limited by the lack of knowledge at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e953	Since the representative now asks professional questions outside my area, I choose to join her main concern, namely that knowledge should not restrict our freedom of action in the northern areas in general, but also in particular that relating to the management plan area, and even more specifically the issues related to possible further petroleum development. Within the budgetary framework, the government has chosen to give priority to sub-areas outside the Lofoten and the West Pole and along the edge of the egg before the 2010 update, so that for those areas where there has been a great deal of focus in the debate, we believe that we are on track today, and we should be able to have a good knowledge base to make those assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e963	This question, from the representative Elisabeth Aspaker to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be raised by the representative Sonja Irene Sjøli.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e966	‘It is positive that Norway wishes to extend the opening time at the Storskog border station in order to facilitate even better contact and trade between Norway and Russia in the north. Is the Police, Customs and Food Administration ready for such an extension, budgetary and logistical, and what is the dialogue with the Russian authorities regarding the extension of the opening time at the Norwegian-Russian border?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e973	I want to start by saying that I want all these questions very welcome, because they give an opportunity to see the northern regions in a whole and also down to the detail level. That's to be commended to the right. In spring 2007, Norway and Russia agreed to extend the daily opening time at the Storskog/Borisogebsk border crossing point by three hours. On 25 June 2007, we informed Russia that Norway was ready to launch the new opening hours on Storskog from 2 July 2007, i.e. last year. Unfortunately, it turned out that the Russian side was not ready to extend the opening time of the Russian border station accordingly. Russia has, among other things: Note that there is much greater pressure on other border stations, including: against Finland. I remember that about 40 pst. of Russia's trade goes out via Finnish ports. It says something about the pressure that's at the border stations. We have later been informed that it is necessary from the Russian side for a bilateral agreement to be reached between our two countries that upgrade the Russian border crossing point. Russia has promised to present a draft agreement to this effect. We have not yet received it. We regularly deal with this matter with the Russian authorities, no later than two weeks ago. The matter will also be part of the preparations for my meetings with the Russian Minister for Foreign Affairs in North Norway and North-West Russia, respectively in the Churches and in Murmansk, 9 and 10 June of this year. With regard to the very specific question raised by the representative of Aspaker, namely whether the police, Customs and Food Administration are prepared for such a reform, the answer is that they were ready to implement an extension already on 2 July last year. I assume that they will also be prepared to meet that challenge when and if we agree with Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e986	I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the answer. In Finland, there is, of course, great impatience in simplifying border control and border crossing at the border with Russia. This is important both for people to cooperate with and to speed up the development of business and cross-border trade in the north. It is reassuring to hear that there is good dialogue and that these questions are being worked on. But is it possible for the Foreign Minister to be a little more specific as to when an extended opening time may be a reality?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e995	It's hard to be concrete here, because it's on the Russian side. We are clear, but the often demanding decision-making structure on the Russian side makes it difficult to give a prediction about it. But I can show that we see that such an opening will require us to further upgrade the border station on the Norwegian side. We've also worked on that. We had a working group throughout last autumn that looked at measures that could make everything possible within the existing framework - making border crossing easier, getting shorter visa processing. We have had the visa agreement with Russia modelled on the EU/Russia, and we aim to make the facilities in Storskog more accessible to the cross-border audience. Then came the entire legislation on labour migration - visa entry - which is another question, to which the Government comes back in just a few days, and which I think will also be able to make a very important contribution in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1002	I thank you again for the answer. I'm glad it works as well as it does. The police in Kirkenes have also gone a long way to provide the best possible service and contribute to an extended opening time in Storskog. But so far the police have had to cover the most significant of the additional expenditure within the allocated budget. My question is whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs can now guarantee that police and other involved states, such as customs and food supervision, will receive full compensation for increased costs associated with longer opening hours, in order to avoid an increased need for resources, which in turn affects other important tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1011	I share the ambitions of the representative Sjøli here. It is clear that a commitment to this must not go beyond other basic services, at least not what is related to the law and order of the churches. I had a meeting with the chief of police in South Varanger when I was in the Churches in January to discuss these questions, and just to say this: the chief of police will have a very central role and coordinate the progress of the actions we are doing at the border station, in contact with other agencies. The customs and levy rate is set to allow an extended opening time - if and when it comes - to be carried out as a one-year probationary period, to see what its effects are, and will then be evaluated. I think that's a wise approach. The budget has announced that the first year will cover the expenditure from existing budgets. And then we'll see what the consequences are. There is still to be seen how much new pressure it will be through an extended opening time. I have a great deal of understanding – after conversations with the business community in Finnmark – that extending the opening time can remove bottlenecks for some very important products, not least on the fishing side.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1023	My question concerns zones in the north: ‘The Court of Justice gives Norway responsibility for the exercise of fishing jurisdiction in the Fisheries Protection Zone of Svalbard. Nordlys reports that the Russian State Fisheries Committee has been given the resources to deploy 2 vessels manned by forces from the FSB border guards, corresponding to the Norwegian Coast Guard forces, for the inspection of Russian fishing vessels in the protection zone. The Russians have the right to control their own vessels in other waters. How does the Government consider such a measure by the Russian side in relation to Norway’s rights and obligations as a coastal State?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1032	Let me first give some background to this matter. I think it's important when we're discussing these big questions. The development of modern sea law has given coastal States the right to establish exclusive economic zones or other jurisdictional zones for more defined purposes, up to 200 nautical miles from the coast. This right derives from the sovereignty of the territory of the country. Since Norway has sovereignty over Svalbard under both general international law and the Svalbard Treaty, Norway has the same right to establish such zones around Svalbard as on the mainland. The Svalbard fishing zone was established in 1977 under the law of 17 December 1976 on the economic zone of Norway. A primary objective is to ensure the responsible management and conservation of living resources in the zone. These are obligations and responsibilities arising from coastal State rights and implemented through fisheries regulations and their enforcement. In line with current sea law, vessels and citizens from other countries fishing in the zone must comply with Norwegian legislation and administrative measures. It is therefore only Norway - as a coastal state - that can enforce Norwegian fishing law in the fishing protection zone. At a press conference held on 27 March this year by the head of the Russian Fisheries Committee, Andrej Krajny, information was provided that the Committee would send two leased-in supervisors to the fishing protection zone for a period of time. The Norwegian authorities are aware that some Russian control measures against own vessels have also occurred earlier, not later than last autumn, without any problems for the enforcement of Norwegian legislation by the Coast Guard so far. Permanent and credible Norwegian exercise of authority in the fishing protection zone, in line with our rights and duties under the law of the sea, promotes common objectives of sustainable management of marine resources. It helps to combat illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing in the zone. From the Norwegian side, we assume that any Russian activity in the fishing protection zone will not affect the enforcement of the existing legislation by the Coast Guard or otherwise interfere with the good bilateral relationship between Norway and Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1053	Thanks for the answer. I fully share the assessment of our relationship with this. Under the theme of oat law and our relationship with neighbouring countries, the sharing line issue in the Barents Sea is also important. Although neighbourhood policy is developing and cooperation with Russia is broader than in the past, it is clear that Norway will serve to resolve that dispute. Shortly after the formation of the government, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the VG – that was on 10 November 2005 – stated the following: ‘Content is within reach. That much I can say." Is this still the Foreign Minister's assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1067	That's my assessment. As I have said before, it is not rocket science to agree on what remains. But I also think the situation is that there are many countries around the globe that live with questions that are not finally settled. We've lived with this question since the 1970s. I believe that the actual conditions needed to draw a border with which both Norway and Russia can live are within reach. So there are not very demanding questions that need to be developed. But you have to find the right time, where both parties are politically prepared to reach such an agreement. I have also said - without it giving a clear indication of the time - that every day we get one day closer. By doing so, I believe that we need to work steadily and steadily and predictablely to find a solution. I also believe that the outside world and Russia know that it is not up to us to find a good, balanced solution. But we will never negotiate this issue, like other questions, under an unnecessary time pressure, which weakens the possibility of impact on Norwegian vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1074	It was almost that one was tempted to say that every day brings us one day closer to eternity. But now I'm not going to be lyrical here. Norway and Russia have set out different principles for a solution to the divider line issue. As far as I understand, the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea specifies the management of such border issues within the territorial boundary. Is the Government also working to further develop international legislation - whether it is in the United Nations or other contexts - in this area, so that there can be support in border disputes between economic zones and also on the pedestal outside the territorial border?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1081	Speaking of eternity -- this is a big question, and in 1 minute it can be difficult to answer it adequately. But let me say one thing first: the Duma decided the Varanger Agreement a few weeks ago, by overwhelming majority. It's positive. It is an expression that we have at least got one piece in place, and we hope it has an impact on the further negotiations. Here, too, everything is related to everything. The work we are now doing to map the reach of the continental shelf has very important leads on the whole order that's going to be in the north. I can confirm to the representative Vallersnes that Norway is working to support the legal processes that can strengthen our basic principle of the centre line in many contexts. I would like to reiterate that the Varanger Agreement has good references to that principle. We follow other similar situations on the globe carefully to look at those processes, both in organisations and between countries, which can generally strengthen our basis. The agreements we have concluded with other countries in the western part of our seas, which clarify the border areas, work in the same direction. But finally, Norway and Russia are going to find a solution together, and that also gives us clear information about the law of the sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1091	This question, from the representative of Øyvind Halleraker to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be raised by the representative of Peter Skovholt Gitmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1094	I will please my listeners with the following questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘To achieve the ambitions of increased understanding and cooperation between Norway and Russia, the press in both countries must be given the opportunity to provide more information on societal development, economics and policies. Journalists who want to travel from Norway to Russia and, in part, vice versa are unfortunately facing more bureaucratic obstacles to obtaining visas than tourists. What does the Government do to facilitate the freedom of movement of journalists in both directions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1103	There is today increasing contact between Norway and Russia in all areas, and we welcome that. In this situation, transparency and information are of great importance. I therefore fully agree with the representative that it is important for the further development of cooperation that Norwegian and Russian journalists do not face unnecessary obstacles when they want to travel between our two countries. In order to support increased contact and further strengthen cooperation, the Government has placed great emphasis on simplifying visa processing and border crossings between Norway and Russia in general. A wide-ranging working group of representatives from both central and local authorities reviewed the situation regarding visa and border crossing from Russia in the autumn of 2007. I mentioned it in an answer to a previous question. The Group has presented recommendations on what can be done to facilitate the border crossing of all Russian citizens to Norway. Many of the recommended measures are being prepared and some have already been implemented. I can mention here, for example. multi-visa to certain applicants, training of personnel at foreign stations to ensure that the flexibility provided for in the Schengen acquis is used and the conversion of the Großkog border station in place to make it more public-friendly. The Ministry of Labour and Inclusion is actively working with this whole important field of work, and will return to this in a short time. In June 2007, we signed a new agreement with Russia on visa facilitation. The agreement includes special arrangements for groups with a documented need for regular travel. This will include, inter alia: make it easier for journalists to obtain multi-annual multi-annual visas. The agreement also gives travellers the right to move freely, in line with the citizens of the country they are visiting. In addition to the fact that the agreement makes it easier to obtain a multi- visa, we see it as important that it clearly determines what is to be required of documentation from journalists, thereby limiting the arbitrary treatment of visas, which has been a problem. The visa agreement is now to be ratified by the Russian Duma, and we have received signals that this will happen during the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1116	Thanks for the answer. I think it's positive what the Foreign Minister says. I want to focus specifically on multi-visum, which is a step in the very right direction, and not least that you remove part of the randomness. One thing is to get access to Russia, something quite different is who you get access to meet as a journalist, and where you get access to travel within Russia. My question goes on, as a follow-up: How does the Minister for Foreign Affairs view the restrictions imposed on Norwegian journalists, both in terms of whom you are allowed to meet, and where you are allowed to travel in Russia?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1123	There is only one answer to that: we want to have the lowest possible restrictions on the work of reporters and journalists in other countries. There are also limitations in some critical, sensitive areas, but in general there must be a principle of extensive freedom - it is a theme that is relevant in these days for China as well. The situation in Russia remains unclear, with strong restrictions on both Russian and incoming press. In our human rights focus with China and with other countries, the dimension of freedom of expression - including the working conditions of reporters and journalists - will be central. Here it becomes important for us to work closely with the Russian journalists' own organisations. Here are contacts between Norwegian press organisations and Russians. We can support the contact that is about providing security and skills development, but also political attention. There will probably be increased attention from the Norwegian side in our relationship with the civil society in Russia in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1130	I am very positive about parts of the foreign minister's link between freedom of the press, freedom of expression, human rights and democracy - all of which are very important for having a civil society based on the principles of the rule of law. Unfortunately, we see that human rights are under pressure, not only in Russia, but in more and more countries. We see examples from Tibet, where we almost refuse to let information get out of the country, but fortunately it does. We have examples from Chechnya within Russia's borders, where journalists have been denied access in periods of major conflict. In Iraq, we have, among other things: See that the United States has wanted one type of information, and so let journalists follow their operations closely, against then reporting from what they see, almost from the eyes of the Americans. The importance of being able to obtain information from an unhindered journalistic perspective I fully share.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1139	I think it is important that we agree on that, and I think it is important that we have a clear voice for it. In any case, I feel that it is important for the effort we are now making on the freedom of speech side - which we now marked on Monday with a seminar in Oslo - that we have good support in Stortinget. I believe that our initiative in this area is also inspired by the dialogues we have had here. The representative Gitmark has been among those who have addressed it in several other contexts, and I will commend that. That's the kind of interaction we need to develop policies in this area. I think living with a free press for an authoritarian system is one of the most sensitive conflicts that is. There we must be with regard to the principle of free press, independence and the right to report, whether from conflict zones, with the danger it entails, journalists who experience killing, abduction or difficult circumstances. Also in authoritarian regimes in general, the voice must be very clear from governments like ours, that we expect the press to get the working conditions it needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1149	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Research and Higher Education: ‘The number of foreign students continues to decline, contrary to the intentions of the Quality Reform. Worldwide, there are several students taking training abroad. Economic conditions are probably one important reason for the decline in the number of foreign students. The government claims they want to bet on several foreign students. Why has the Council of State not proposed changes to the funding arrangements for foreign students so that everyone, regardless of the economy, is given the opportunity to take full education abroad?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1158	The quality reform focused on several areas of action in order to achieve an increased international level of activity. This includes participation in international programmes and institutionalised exchange agreements, several foreign students to Norway, the exploitation of opportunities to participate in international research cooperation and mutual cooperation and exchange agreements, and the establishment of training provision in English. Provision of study residency abroad, primarily through the reform of sub-studies, as part of degree studies in Norway, was one of the measures. An increased level of international activity is needed to reinvigorate the sector and improve the quality of higher education and research in Norway. The evaluation of the Quality Reform showed that the reform has given increased attention to internationalisation work in the university and higher education sectors. In St.meld. No 7 for 2007-2008, Quality reform status report in right-wing education, highlighted the need for universities to adopt a comprehensive approach to internationalisation. It is necessary for institutions to further develop strategic work so that internationalisation can contribute more clearly to quality development in education and research. It will be important to better link student exchange and research exchange through institutional agreements that contribute to increased quality in this type of exchange. Students taking entire degrees abroad are limited in terms of quality reform and their contribution to internationalisation will be different from that of the sub-students. In the international context, Norwegian training aid is very good, especially in terms of taking away training aid abroad. Norway is one of the few countries, together with the other Nordic countries, which have for a number of years provided for students to take training abroad. Other European countries are now following and using the Nordic support schemes as good examples of how to facilitate internationalisation, by allowing students to take training support out of the country. With regard to student mobility, as mentioned earlier, it is important to distinguish between graduate students and sub-students, because there are different policies, different developments, and there are probably also different reasons for the development in the number of these two groups. The decline in the number of students abroad, both those taking part in their Norwegian education abroad, and those taking a great deal abroad, will be discussed in the announced Internationalisation paper. The same applies to economic conditions for those taking training abroad. We do not know the reasons why the number of students abroad has decreased, but in connection with the message, external work has been undertaken to identify reasons for this. Studies in Europe show that personal motivation, language skills and the organisation of mobility in countries of origin and destination are important factors alongside the economy when deciding whether to leave. For some subjects and countries, the number goes down, while for others it goes up. Also to countries with no or low school fees, there are examples of decreases in numbers. The Storting Communication will have a broader approach to the issues than just how many students take education outside Norway. It is important that, in addition to mobility, we do not forget that internationalisation should also mean something to the vast majority of students who do not choose to take all or part of the studies out. Internationalisation is an institutional policy and an important contribution to building quality in Norwegian higher education. It is therefore an important aspect of the quality reform. The main essence of my answer is that we have a good financing system that we can be proud of, and I have also heard from Norwegian students abroad that they are very satisfied with the scheme that is.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1184	I would like to thank you for your answer. The answer was much more extensive than the question, because this question is about degree students/full-time students abroad. For some, the financial instrument is good; for others, it is not. For example, those students who are particularly excluded from this good funding system that the Council of State boasts of are: students wishing to take a bachelor’s degree which in some countries has a four-year course instead of a three-year course, which it is usually in Norway. There are a number of countries that have a four-year run. Then the scheme is such that they do not receive support for four but three years of this training cycle. This government has claimed that it has been important to ensure that more students are allowed to take full-time studies abroad. Then I find it strange that you boast of a scheme that is obviously not good enough. My direct challenge to the Council of State will be: Will the Council now ensure that students who want to take four-year-old bachelors abroad are funded?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1193	This government prioritises master’s degree students and taking part in the degree abroad. With regard to the bachelor's study, I would like to claim that Norwegian universities have a good capacity at the bachelor's level. Some Norwegian universities believe that extra school fees for such studies abroad over several years than can be taken in Norway are distorting competition for some Norwegian institutions. What's also the case here is that you're working out a loan for a longer period of time in the studies than what you would do with, for example. A three-year-old bachelor. So far there have been arguments that we haven't wanted to stimulate anything extra to just this. But there is nothing wrong with students being able to make agreements anyway and take their bachelor's degree abroad, knowing that they do not fully harmonise with the professional level in Norway. That's why there's a difference in the number of years.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1202	I would like to thank you once again for your answer. I'm not particularly pleased with the content, and I think it's strange that government priorities are given to master's students and partial students, while Bachelor's students who want to take a great deal abroad are to be given priority. This also runs counter to what the department has said in the past. a strategy they have implemented in cooperation with the US Embassy, where they have worked actively to help increase exchanges between the United States and Norway. Then it is called ‘freshman year’ one of the issues that the department has previously been aware of that they will contribute to solving for the students. And that's an easy way to solve it, and that's to provide funding for freshman year. I understand that this council has a different attitude than her predecessors. I would like to ask the Council of State to clarify whether the department has now turned around, so that it does not contribute to the financing of ‘freshman year’.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1209	There is a difference in quality assessment on the basis of which Norwegian funding for the first year of American education, e.g. because it corresponds to the last year of Norwegian higher education. There we stand with other European countries, and that is because there is a different professional assessment of the studies. That's what's at stake. I want to reassure the representative that I am taking all the input into the work we are now doing on a notice of internationalisation. Of course, we're going to evaluate these sides right there, but what I've answered now is what's my perception of the situation. I still want to stimulate both internationalisation and studies abroad, but I want to focus on parts of the studies and the master studies.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1219	‘In today’s economy on 10 March, the Council of State points to the need for increased competence in the field of renewable energy. While there is a political consensus on increased investment in climate research, the same clarification is not available in respect of higher education in renewable energy. The article refers to concrete plans for green energy investment in several universities and higher education institutions. Will the Council consider whether renewable energy should be given special priority in the budget for higher education in 2009?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1226	Climate and environmental challenges require action in all sectors. The representative Syversen himself shows that there is a commitment to research in this area. This provides competence and a good professional basis for developing study offers. Today's Economy presented on 10 March this year an overview of new study offers from the autumn of 2008, showing that universities and colleges have already developed studies focusing on environmental issues and alternative, renewable energy sources. The Real Skills Strategy of the Ministry of Education, a joint commitment to the real sciences, is an important platform for strengthening educational institutions' prioritisation of technology and real-life studies, and thus also the provision of studies necessary to build our competence on climate issues, and technologies that can be used for the extraction of renewable energy. The current situation is hardly the number of study offers or capacity to study, but the number of young people interested and qualified to study relevant subjects. That's why motivation is important. Real science is also aimed at increasing young people’s interest in real science in schools, so that they later choose, for example, to start an engineering training with renewable energy as a specialisation. Real science may therefore be our main tool for providing the nation with the skills needed to be a leading renewable energy nation in the future. It is, of course, difficult for me to say something about the priorities of the 2009 budget now. I guess the representative doesn't expect me to do that either. We agree that it is important to recruit qualified and engaged students and professionals who will help Norway strengthen its role as a leading nation in renewable energy. I'm not going to let any reason go from me to tell both research environments and university environments how important it is now to build up and be well qualified to take research assignments in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1241	The Council of State is quite right that I have not intended to demand an answer from her, and I did not believe in any answer as to how this will be prioritised in 2009. I guess the Council of State doesn't know that either. My point is to have a political pressure on the chain that is necessary to actually get results that are in line with the rather ambitious climate agreement that the government has made with the opposition here in the house. Then we're talking about real science, and we're talking about everything from primary school, high school, up to higher education, and then research. Now we've been focusing on research in the climate agreement, but before the research, it's that you have students who have actually received a good education at a higher level. So my question is simply whether it's an assessment -- at least that you don't require it -- to give some specific incentives right in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1248	The situation is that the Council of State cannot instruct universities or colleges to have specific types of studies in their offer. But as I said in my first answer: I use every opportunity to encourage progress in both education and research in this area. It is very important, as the representative says, with a larger application for the real subjects and for science subjects. But I would also like to say that the whole of the subject area here is important. That's why, in the follow-up to the climate agreement between the Government and the Stortinget, which I am very pleased with, we're going to have an overall perspective on what measures we're going to take. This will also, of course, stimulate children and young people to start thinking about this very early.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1257	This question, from the representative of Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide to the Minister for Research and Higher Education, is raised by the representative Inge Wohnning.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1260	‘A number of countries have established research stations in the New Ålesund region. This is very positive. Is the Government satisfied with the level of information sharing between the present countries on the research carried out and the results achieved?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1267	The government agrees that it is very positive that there is increasing international interest in exploiting the unique research opportunities offered by Svalbard, among others. in the New Ålesund. Nine countries have set up their own research stations in New Zealand, and in addition India is about to set up a station here. It comes annually to researchers from around 20 countries to the New Ålesund. Svalbard is a central venue for global climate and environmental research, and this particularly applies to New Ålesund. The area is vulnerable to environmental impacts and it is the Government's objective to further develop New Ålesund as a «green» research station. It is important that the research carried out there, as well as in Svalbard in general, is of high quality, and that the different research environments cooperate and exchange information and data where this is natural. The planning of research activities needs to focus on environmental considerations and coordination between different research groups, such as: in terms of logistics - I mention e.g. scooter driving - is an important tool to prevent unnecessary environmental impact. There is already extensive cooperation between the research communities in the New Ålesund region. For example, Germany and France operate a joint station. New Ålesund Science Managers Committee was set up in 1994, and is an important forum where the institutions that have activities in New Ålesund can discuss opportunities for cooperation and exchange of data. However, the government sees that there may be a basis for stimulating even better cooperation, both in the New Ålesund and in Svalbard in general. This is why the Ministry of Knowledge has already started a process to look at what means we should use to contribute to this, and we have among other things. received good input from key Norwegian actors in the research at Svalbard. Svalbard Science Forum, which is under the Norwegian Research Council, has an important role in this context and has, among other things, establish a database on which research projects and results are recorded. The database represents a resource both for researchers and others interested in information on Svalbard research. The Svalbard staff member has recently decided that, in the examination of applications for permits and exemptions, it should be required to register research projects in the database of Svalbard Science Forum. This will help to strengthen the exchange of information and make research activities and results visible. The government, at the Ministry of Justice, will present a new big message on Svalbard policy next year. Here, research at Svalbard will be a key element, and issues related to how we can facilitate cooperation and information sharing will be addressed and followed up in this Communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1280	I thank the Council of State for the answer. We agree that the development of the New Ålesund is unparalleledly positive, and that the still increasing international scope of research activity in the New Ålesund is positive. The background to my question is that Norway in practice covers quite considerable expenditure on infrastructure and on the operation of the international research effort in New Zealand. In reality, this means that Norway is subsidising research stations in other countries with not insignificant amounts, and it is not unreasonable to have an informed policy on this from Norway, which also defines conditions that ensure that this benefits Norwegian research and Norwegian research policy. Is it a problem for the Minister of Research that responsibility for this is shared among so many different departments - the Ministry of Justice for Svalbard Policy, the Ministry of Industry for Kings Bay...? [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1289	I just had to listen to the question before I knew what to answer. I do not see it as a problem that responsibility here is shared among many. In the Communication on Svalbard policy for which the Ministry of Justice has the primary responsibility and which they are now working on, all departments will be involved in assessing the various measures. As a research minister, I have a coordinated responsibility for research. This means that I have a good dialogue with my colleagues in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade and in other relevant departments who are interested in research at Svalbard. In my opinion, we have good procedures for coordinating this, both in the Government and with the actors who are also there, for example. Norwegian Research Council and Employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1296	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. What makes the issue particularly interesting is, of course, that the research activity conducted on the basis of the New Ålesund is research activity dealing with very key challenges: biodiversity, climate challenges, etc. This means that there is even greater reason to facilitate the most open communication, not only with regard to the nature of the research projects, but also with regard to the results resulting from the research activity, and not least that this has a return value for Norwegian research in the identified areas. But I understand the Council of State's response so that we are aware of this, and that there will also be considerable efforts on the part of the Council of State to ensure this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1305	I can assure the representative. In the summer that comes - in June/July - we will have the annual New Zealand Symposium, where there will be research ministers from several countries, and how little of the intention is to get an insight into what has been learned since the last. And of course, it will be important to spread that knowledge and be open about the processes that lead to knowledge and the importance of knowledge for the important challenges, which the representative also points to. I have no doubt that Svalbard in general, and the New Ålesund in particular, is a unique research laboratory, precisely because one can study both the atmosphere and the impact on biology and other aspects of climate change in a completely unique way. So this we're going to benefit ourselves from, and I'm very happy that we can facilitate good international cooperation in New Zealand.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1322	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1328	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Defence: ‘Many of the armoured vehicles shown by the Defense ‘haste-buyed’, as previously claimed by the undersigned, do not keep their dimensions. [[Iveco]] They are constantly getting an engine stop and have to be towed to the workshop and repaired by specialists. This results in the soldiers rather running around in unexplored, older vehicles that work. Are the Councils still satisfied with this situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1337	The purpose of acquiring Iveco vehicles was to quickly put in place light armoured patrol vehicles to strengthen the safety of our soldiers in Afghanistan. My assessment was, and this was also the very clear professional-military recommendation I received, that it was more important to get armoured vehicles in place that satisfied our demands than to carry out a normal acquisition. Such a process could take several years. In the meantime, we wouldn't have enough protection for our soldiers. The Iveco vehicles comply with the professional and technical requirements for the protection of small arms and mines. However, it is true that there have been certain entry problems with the Iveco vehicles, and I have previously answered this in Stortinget on questions from the representative of Bredvold. The technical challenges in question are very much on the way to «child diseases». We are in process with the manufacturer to repair these. Some of the use of Iveco vehicles has also exacerbated the problems. In order to prevent this, the Defence Logistics Organisation has clarified how the vehicles are to be used so that they are not at risk of being overloaded. There is a high international demand for armoured vehicles. The United Kingdom, Italy, Belgium and Spain have done as Norway and bought armoured Iveco vehicles. At the same time, countries that have acquired both these and other armoured vehicles have found that conditions in Afghanistan are extremely demanding. This is why most of the types of vehicles purchased by different countries have also encountered problems in Afghanistan. In this matter, I have been primarily concerned with quickly putting in armored vehicles to improve the safety of our soldiers. Despite these technical challenges, I believe it was absolutely right for the defence to acquire the vehicles and thus reduce the risk to Norwegian women and men in the field in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1352	I thank the Council of State for the answer. On Tuesday, 25 March, we will be able, for example, to discuss the following issues: read the following: ‘Panzer cars do not tackle Afghanistan’. There, those who have to do with the use of these cars, captains, etc., say that they have nine vehicles in a troop, and there are only two that are executable. There are seven pieces that are not usable. It's been like this all along, and you don't see any solution to it either. The result is that instead of having an engine stop in the field and being attacked, you drive around in an old vehicle, for example. Mercedes-Benz Groundcar, which works, so you get out of there. Too often it's about seconds when you're attacked and you're going to get away from a situation. And it's clear that if you get the engine stop and stay standing, you're going to be an easy target. That's why I ask again whether the Council of State is satisfied with the situation we have for our Norwegian soldiers in Afghanistan regarding safety in the case of cars?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1365	There should be no doubt that I have had a great deal of focus on our soldiers in Afghanistan being equipped with armored vehicles. That was why we did not take the necessary test period of the vehicles at home. Following the advice of - and in consultation with - the head of defence, we assessed it there that when the vehicles were delivered, they were to be sent to Afghanistan immediately. Thus, they were also sent to Afghanistan for a run-in period which, ideally, was supposed to have been taken home. Now it is the case that both representatives from the supplier and representatives from the FLO have been in Afghanistan - and are regularly there - to correct the errors that have occurred on the vehicles. I also want to stress that in terms of having problems with vehicles in Afghanistan, we are not the only country that has it. It has many countries, because conditions are extremely demanding, not least climatic conditions with sand, etc. And per year. So today we have 12 out of 14 vehicles in service.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1374	I thank the Council once again for the answer. What the Council of State says is not exactly what the users say in the Newspaper. It says that only two out of nine vehicles are in operation - two out of nine. I think that's very, very alarming. I also think it's completely wrong to test vehicles in a war, because there's a war we're in. It must be wrong that you do not have that drive-in period in a completely different and safe place. I also record that the head of the Defence Logistics Organisation, Trond Ragnar's son Karlsen, recently visited Afghanistan, as it says in the Newspaper. He says that the defense “must look at the vehicle situation”. That's not enough for me. I have no conscience not to raise this matter. I've done that, and I'm going to follow it up. The Minister of Defence said yesterday in this Chamber, Tuesday 8 April, approx. %d %s %d %s" is "%d %s" 10.30 - if I have noted correctly - that it should not be on money when there is a need for material to increase the safety of the Norwegian soldiers in international operations. If it is possible to obtain vehicles, the Council of State must do so at any cost.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1390	Here I would say that this is not about money. In fact, it is about getting vehicles that are usable to Afghanistan in a timely manner. I received a clear professional military recommendation to send the vehicles to Afghanistan as soon as they were released from the supplier. It was a recommendation I supported, and I thought it was right from the point of view of the situation, that it was important to put armoured vehicles in Afghanistan. So it's not like you have to think that you can go to the store and buy armored vehicles. We can't defend that either from the Norwegian defense or any other country. With regard to the article referred to from 25 March, it is today 9 April. We've had people from the supplier to fix some issues. We've had people from the FLO present in Afghanistan, and we've also looked at how the vehicles are being loaded and used. Many initiatives have been taken here, precisely to improve the situation. Then we recognize that there are some entry problems with these vehicles, which we also share with several other countries. We have, as I said, full pressure to fix it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1402	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘Three government councils called to the press conference on 31 March to tell them that the Government had decided that the State budget for 2009 should be allocated to the double-track Barkåker-Tønsberg. That's good for the travelers on the Westfold course. How is the progress plan for the heavily loaded Oslo tunnel and the double-track Oslo-Ski, which is a prerequisite for Oslopackak 3?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1411	As I have informed you before, among other things. in answer to written question No. 817 from the Tenden representative, I have established a project group composed of the Railway Agency and the main user groups, which include the NSB, the Flytog and CargoNet. The project group has been commissioned to identify and submit proposals for actions that can already be implemented in 2008, together with actions that need longer time to be implemented, in order to redefine work on the renewal of the Oslo Tunnel and adjacent train sections. I will consider coming back with proposals in the context of the revised 2008 national budget if the group can present actions that can be launched as early as this year. Measures that require longer planning time will be brought back to me in the context of the 2009 budget and, if necessary, later years’ budget. As I have previously explained in various contexts, I give this work a very high priority, as this is about getting the most important and most busy route on the Norwegian network. The progress plan for the double-track Oslo-Ski is naturally dependent on both the planning situation and the state budget. When it comes to the planning situation, the double-track Oslo-Ski, compared to Barkåker-Tønsberg, is in the near future so far in planning that it is possible to start the work in 2009. The railway works now carry out distribution work related to the trajectory and stopping patterns, the use of tunnel drilling technology, whether it be single or two-speed tunnels, and the way in which the introduction to Oslo S is to be resolved. Once this has been completed, detailed and building plans must be developed for the project which must be subject to an external quality assurance before it can be taken up as a normal installation permit. The amount of time needed to set the level base will be used, among other things. depend on the municipal approval process for necessary regulatory plans. At this point in time, it is too soon to be able to give anything closer to when the double track Oslo-Ski will be ready for launch. The double-track Oslo-Ski is a very important railway project, and I will follow carefully the railway works' progress in the planning work. This will be assessed in the context of the National Transport Plan 2010-2019, which the Government is planning to submit at the end of 2008/2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1422	I thank the Council of State for the answer. A press release on the Ministry of Transport's website says that the extension of the Barkåker-Tønsberg section, which has been calculated at NOK 1.37 billion, for example. will reduce the journey time three to four minutes on the Tønsberg-Oslo route. At an open hearing yesterday, the Committee gained knowledge from the Railway Agency that by granting 100 million. In the revised budget for spring, the Railway Agency will be able to remedy the acute problems in the Oslo tunnel. Can the Council of State promise to grant these 100 million? kr as the Railway Agency says must, and I would also like to believe that the project group will arrive?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1431	What becomes the content of the revised national budget when we get that far is, however, far too early to say. Moreover, the Council of State never says anything about the content of budget proposals before they come to the Stortinget, so I can't comment on that. What will be the result of the project group's work, I also have no answer. They report regularly to the Ministry of Social Affairs, and they do so per year. Today we do not have material that matches the information given in the Committee yesterday, but I have reason to believe that they are incorrect. But we've asked them to do a job, not only in terms of heads and ears, but also to see what kind of action it is possible and practical to take this summer, because a lot of this will require a few routes to be stopped, and it's a complicated system. This is also why we have a wide-ranging group of projects. So we'll have to come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1438	I thank the Council of State for the answer. To that it is said that the train operators have said that they will be very willing to stop the trains in large parts, and they are also drivers. At the open hearing yesterday, we were also confirmed that the Oslo-Ski route is a national issue. It's a highly populated area. It's a stretch out into Europe and can be the start of the first high-speed train. It's also a prerequisite for Oslopackak 3 that it's a package to be climate-rated, so here's actually the council with the key to whether we're gonna be able to get climate-rated and get started with Oslopackak 3. According to the evening of yesterday, the Christian People's Party representative Hans Olav Syversen says that the Council of State is betting on 'wrong double tracks'. I'm excited to hear the political and professional assessments of what's behind her spending so much money on this stretch of Barkåker-Tønsberg and pushing Oslo-Ski out in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1447	We have a national transport plan today that was provided by the previous government and signed by the previous majority. The action programme in this national transport plan is launched by Barkåker-Tønsberg in 2006. It is thus planned to start in this period. Oslo-Ski doesn't have such a horizon, neither in relation to the action program nor the planning, for which I also did the right thing in my main response. So the simple, realistic and correct answer to the question is simply that the previous majority in the national transport plan has prioritised Barkåker-Tønsberg far higher than Oslo-Ski. During this period, we follow up on our previous decisions, not least by allowing much more money than one has done in the past, and so we also get speed when it comes to the development of railways in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1457	This question, from the representative Svein Flätten to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1460	My question is quite right to the Minister for Fisheries and, in this regard, not least to the Minister for Coastal Affairs: «In a few years, the North Police can be completely gone, according to researchers. Although the evolution is alarming, it will in any case update new sea routes between, among other things. Northern Europe, Asia and North America. The need for different types of preparedness/rescue, oil protection, etc. will grow. What have the Council of State and the Government done to identify developments and future needs?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1469	A number of research reports point out, as the representative also points out, that the Arctic will be more or less ice-free in summer time in 20 to 30 years. Climate change can contribute in a few years to the melting of the sea in the northern regions, thus opening up new patterns of sailing. Opening the Northeast and a transpolar route may reduce transport costs between the West and Asia, but shipping through vulnerable areas may also be a subject of conflict. Accidents and emissions in such areas will be associated with a significant risk to all those involved. Establishing well-functioning systems for search and rescue and oil protection in sparsely populated areas is a challenge. An important part of the government’s North Sea effort and a central part of the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs’ responsibilities is the work on maritime safety and oil protection under harsh weather conditions with strong winds, high waves, low air temperature, low visibility and ice availability. In line with the North Sea Strategy, the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs is in the process of identifying ongoing processes and projects related to maritime transport and oil protection in such circumstances. The Ministry now also launches a pilot project for technologist development of high-wave lenses. In St.meld. No 14 for 2004-2005 on maritime safety and oil protection, a risk analysis of ship traffic in Norwegian waters was submitted by 2015. The message proposes measures to meet an expected increase in risk. In the north, we have already taken important measures to reduce the risk of accidents. Sailors further off the coast of the entire route from Vardø to Røst and Vardø traffic centre are established. Possible ports of refuge have been identified and upgrading of the depots with oil protection equipment has been started. In 2006, Norway and Russia signed a Memorandum of Understanding to strengthen cooperation in maritime safety and oil protection. This is specifically followed up by a steering group, two working groups on maritime safety and oil protection, and regular joint oil protection exercises. Russia has also taken the initiative of an international cooperation project to increase the safety of the development of large industrial projects and to minimise the risk of accidents. The Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs will take part in this project by the Norwegian side. We follow climate change and participate in processes both nationally and internationally in order to strengthen maritime transport and oil protection preparedness in the northern regions. Although it is likely to take time for new sea routes to be put into service, we already have to prepare for increased traffic to change the risk picture and the emergency requirements as well as the need for marine surveillance.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1484	I thank you for your answer. I understand that the government believes that the police will decrease, and that the need here is increasing. In this, call it, the problem area will be many conflicts between states - between Norway and other powers, such as the United States, Canada and Russia - and there will be conflicts between industry, commercialism, defence, foreign and oil and energy. Does the Council of State, which also represents the part of the country, think that there is a need for closer coordination at an early stage in order to look at the areas of conflict and that it is necessary to sit down and make a broader report on this from the government team?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1491	I agree with the representative that opening up new sea routes in the north could open up many discussions of a kind of international law - in relation to the indigenous peoples who live in the areas, in relation to environmental issues and resource use - far beyond the responsibilities that I manage in daily life. The government has put forward a Northern Region Strategy and has its own Northern Region Selection. It is clear that in all areas, including new routes in the north, good coordination between departments is important. And I can assure the representative that we will have it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1496	I definitely believe that, but I want to emphasize again what I'm doing here. In the VG last Sunday, North Region Expert at the University of Tromsø, Torbjørn Pedersen, talked about some of these conflict areas, and, as I say, there are quite a few. I think a lot of those involved don't really know which agencies are responsible for what. It really turns out to be clear in connection with my question, which was addressed to the Minister of Transport, who had nothing to do with it. It's just a little bit of detail, but it shows that this is a huge area, when we assume such a change in these areas. I want to challenge the Council of State and ask, even though I realize that it may not be primarily her responsibility, if it is not her opinion that you should see this in an even more coordinated form from the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1505	I fully agree that the various departments must be coordinated both on the issue we are discussing here in concrete terms, and also in the North Region policy as such. It is also important that we actively participate in international processes, so that we are as coordinated as possible with the world around us. In this context, I will limit myself to talking about what is specifically my responsibility in relation to new sea routes. There I'm busy with three things. One is that we have the right risk analyses, that we have a readiness that is dimensioned in relation to it. The second is that we work bilaterally with Russia to influence the standard of safety and preparedness in northern waters. The third is the work in which we participate in the IMO, which lays down the maritime legislation. A fresh example in this way is the new ban on the use of heavy bunker oil, which is not least relevant to maritime transport in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1515	The question to the Minister for Transport is: ‘In the context of the call for tenders at Hardangerbrua, Skanska, the contractor who had the cheapest offer for the construction of access routes and tunnels to the bridge, announced that they would claim compensation for expenditure on tenders and lost profits. Other major projects have also been stopped due to this. cost-reimbursement. What does the Council of State do to improve both project work and quality assurance and to avoid the loss of tenders and liability if projects need to be re-examined due to cost constraints?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1524	The level of prices in the construction market was strongly increasing in 2007, and the interest in individual competition was often less than desirable. Development was very imprecise. Several competitors were therefore terminated without a contract being concluded. For the road project rv. 7/rev. 13 Hardangerbrua was the supply competition, divided into two main parts, first worked on the supply routes and then worked on the bridge itself. The result of the competition for the routes of supply gave prices higher than the cost estimate for this part of the project. On this basis, the Ministry of Transport considered that there was a significant risk of exceeding the cost frame for the entire project, i.e. the route of administration and the bridge of collection. Since the Ministry of Transport is not authorised to impose obligations on the State in addition to the powers conferred by the Stortinget, the State Road Administration was asked to terminate the competition for the routes of entry. This was almost done for in St.prp. No 24 for 2007-2008. Road project cost report is prepared using the so-called estimation method. The method has been developed by the State Road Administration in cooperation with NTNU and SINTEF. The method is based on so-called step-by-step calculation, an acceptable way of calculating estimates. The report on the cost of major projects is being made in several stages. For Hardangerbrua, the estimate of costs was first quality assured by the regional cost group, then by the Road Directorate and finally by the external consultant. The quality assurance process for this type of project is therefore very comprehensive and provides an extra high level of assurance that the management framework and cost framework are defined within the accuracy requirements and uncertainty established. Statistics also show that the quality of the Road Administration’s estimate of costs and project work/management has developed very positively in recent years. The overall survey of final projects on a national basis shows that the difference between the final cost and the original estimate of costs is very small. In a labyrinth market that we have now seen, there will be a significant risk of cost speech when new projects are launched on offer. The state road system is actively and systematically working with measures and the further development of management systems, with the aim of reducing this risk. In Question Time on 19 December 2007, in response to questions from the representative of Arne Sortevik, these actions were addressed in detail. A new estimate of the costs has now been prepared for Hardangerbrua. The quality assurance of the estimate by the external consultant is in progress. If the result of this process shows that the cost frame of the entire project is exceeded in relation to the cost frame presented to Stortinget, then the matter must be resubmitted to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1543	Thanks for the answer. Both the answer and the circumstances at the back know both the questions and the answers, so the Council of State. What is new in this case is that one of the companies involved in the tendering process records that there is no contract being written. They're left with the lowest price, and they're wondering what's going on. The question concerns the two general aspects concerned here, which were perhaps not affected in the response of the Council of State, the extent to which the State and the trade union have the opportunity to say no to the tenders obtained, whether the price is too high. Therefore, the first follow-up question is: how does the Council of State think it can be done and secured on a general basis, and how has it been done in this particular case? In any case, it is obvious that the contractor does not perceive it this way, but reacts so strongly that it is actually considered to be the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1552	The Ministry of Transport and the offices of the Ministry of Transport, i.e. the Railway Agency and the State Road Administration, must adhere to the rules laid down by the Stortinget. The legislation states that if we see that a cost framework can be broken, we will stop the project, i.e. if we see that it will be a significant crack. When the supply of the two routes of supply was so high, and when the indications in the market at the time were such that prices were above what was calculated, and so broke with the good trend of the State Road Service over a long time, it was the State Road Service's duty to comply with the legislation that a halted project. Those who offer government projects are aware of this, and they know that there is a risk that it will have to go back to the Storting if the frame is exceeded. So what we have done in this case is simply to follow the code that Stortinget itself has suggested that we should have for that type of project. I understand that contractors found this to be broken, and that one has done a lot of work that, at least in the blink of an eye, may seem to be a failure. The offer has now expired, so you can assess whether you can use it again. But as long as you don't change the game rules, this is just the way we have to do it. I believe that quality assurance in the future has been very extensive, and in this case there was agreement between what came from an external consultant and what came from the State Road Administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1559	Well, the Storting has a budget regulation. However, it is also the case that those participating in a tendering procedure have laws and guidelines to deal with, among other things. the law, regulation and administrative provisions relating to public acquisitions. What the contractor in question is highly doubtful about is whether there is actually a factual basis for claiming to stop in this case. I ask concretely, should the lowest-offer contractor be provided with the basis of calculation? That's one follow-up question. The second is on the estimation method, which the Council of State concerned. In this case, in this case and in this project, there was also, in the same way as in some other major projects, criticism of the external quality assurance both against the use of the estimation method of calculation and for the lack of traceability in the calculations. Therefore, there is still some uncertainty about the state road system's own methodology of counting costs on large projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1566	In order to take the last one first, the State Road Service has a very good statistics on whether it is right when it relates to prices that are also reflected in the market. As was the case for the construction industry and for the total construction industry in 2007, there was a heavy cost increase that no one envisaged, nor the State Road Administration. So there puts a corpse in the class of contractors within constructions and installations in total. This is what the Council of State would like to stand up and defend. When it comes to transparency, we also have legislation about it. I see per. today no reason for it to change. If the contractor chooses to go to a case on the basis of which it is based, then the legal entity will have to go in and assess whether it has something to do with the contractor, or whether it finds that the State Road Service has acted in line with the law that is in force, and has not violated any rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1576	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In Uppland, several major road sections have been planned for many years without money being included in development. Plans are being investigated while road standards are getting worse and the number of accidents is rising. Will the Council of State review all road plans in Uppland and ensure that these are realised?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1585	The municipalities are planning and building authority and are responsible for providing approved municipal sub-plans and control plans for the road projects. The Swedish Road Administration assists the municipalities in this work, but with its own law home, § 9-4 of the Planning and Building Act, it also has the ability to develop and develop road plans. In all countries, physical plans for road projects are developed as the basis for the national transport plan and the follow-up action programme. It is the Stortinget that established the financial framework. There is a great need for road investment, which has led to approved physical plans for far more projects than there is room for prioritisation within a defined framework, even with this government's increase in the financial framework for road construction. The Ministry of Transport will assess future priorities of road projects for the national road network through work on the National Transport Plan 2010-2019, both in Uppland and in the other counties of the country. The country of origin, like the other counties, has a deadline until 30 April to submit its priorities. The Ministry, through its work on the national transport plan, will also decide on the financial framework for investment on the national road network. The specific priorities within these frameworks have a decisive impact on the county today. As a result of the planned administrative reform that will enter into force from 2010, priority will be given to actions on this road network as an important regional policy task.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1596	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I wonder if the Council of State has any overview of all that is planned and that has not been implemented, and the costs of all these plans? Then I believe not only the costs of the plans, but the loss of the road capital that each year agrees because you do not implement what is planned.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1603	The state road service, which is my profession in this area, has a good overview of plans that lead in the various counties of the country. The state Road Administration is involved in developing these plans in cooperation with municipalities and county councils. So I'll believe and believe that I can confirm that you have a good knowledge of this. The existing national transport plan has priorities for all countries, including Uppland. With this government, we have been given a lift in the roadways, which means that, contrary to what one has had before, more means have been given to maintain and build new road sections. It will also benefit Uppland County. Then, of course, discussions about the next national transport plan remain, about which path Oppland wants to enter. It has a major impact on Uppland County through the hearing process, and I want to listen carefully to what priorities they want to focus on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1612	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I'm glad she mentions that maybe something comes to Uppland-- we'll see. Now it is that the loss of road capital is becoming very large. We have so many accidents in Uppland, and the cost of losing road capital and accidents is now so great that if the Stortinget or Vegvesenen invests $1 in planned road projects in Uppland, I think society gets ten back. Does the Council of State see this context?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1621	This Council of State is completely overestimated that there are huge socio-economic gains to be gained by stepping up the development of transport. It applies to both road and rail. It's about reducing the risk of accidents. It's not long since we had a tragic accident in Uppland. It's not long since I had one in my own neighborhood, which also owes it to the same thing, that one has too narrow a roadway, for bad road shoulders, and a road capital which unfortunately is reduced. We're working on this in the Government. We have increased the maintenance budget to stop additional increases in the maintenance lag. We are also increasing the rate of investment, and we are now working intensively towards the national transport plan to see how we can achieve an even more positive development in the transport sector in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1633	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The Bondevik II Government set up a working group that delivered its report to the Ministry of Transport in April 2006 entitled ‘New common parking regulation?’. Several proposals are made, among other things, to clean up current enforcement practices. Now, two years have passed without the government having taken up this report, this is very unfortunate in view of all the drivers who are being treated unfairly. When will the Council of State put in place a new and better regulation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1642	I would like to point out first that most of the parking today is done in tidy forms. Figures from the report below show that in 2005, the players covered over 90 pst. of the market, about 180 000 customer visits every day, or about 67 million during the year. Of these, it was only about 52,000, or about 3/4 per million, who in the course of the year ended up complaining to public or private actors. However, I have said that the stock in today's parking market is not good enough. The report ‘New common parking regulation?’ was provided by a wide-ranging working group with representatives from municipalities, the private car park industry, general consumer interests, the relocation-removal organisations and the board of directors. The report points to a great need for change, especially in order to provide better and easier conditions for the individual parker. Furthermore, changes are needed to give equal competitive conditions in the industry and to clear up their different roles in the public sector. The working group therefore made suggestions on close industrial regulation with the introduction of a common regulatory framework for public and private car parking. Particular attention was paid to general user rights and ongoing harmonisation, as well as to the monthly improvement of rights to persons with reduced mobility. A common scheme was recommended for all those wishing to provide eel parking, and common requirements for operators and user rights are laid down by law, regulation or administrative action. When the report arrived in April 2006, I took the initiative to make a wide public hearing of the contributions from the working group, which was carried out almost Christmas 2006. It is therefore not right, as the representative of Hofstad Helleland claims, that two years have passed without the Government having taken hold of the report. About a hundred hearing aids spoke out and have given constructive and useful input. Both the report and the hearing have shown that extensive and complicated work needs to be done to provide a good basis for a new common parking regulation. Promises and extensive regulatory work are needed, and we must follow the democratic gulfs of the wider process. There is also a need for further clarification of the impact of municipalities and assessments of the Foundation's assets. In addition to regulatory challenges, there is a need to give industry time to adapt to new rules. So it'll take some time before new rules are in place, and I'm asking for an understanding that I can't say here and now just when it can happen. I would like to point out, however, that the Government is busy making it easier to use these services and to give the car park operators good conditions. I would therefore like to give further priority to following up the case and working for common rules, such as: includes joint complaints and reactions in relation to both public and private parking spaces.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1655	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State, and I am glad that she answers in the way she does. I understand that this is an extensive work, that takes time, and that you have to go thoroughly into. And I understand that this and now it's hard to decide on individual elements. I still have a case that I would like to hear from the Council of State, and it is a matter of many drivers feeling quite innocent when you have to complain. That's why many people don't do it. Today the parking companies stand quite strongly. How does the Council of State feel that parking companies have the burden of proof on their side? Can it be, for example, be required to take a picture in each case where a parking fee is issued, so that the drivers are more strongly involved in complaints?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1662	I'm totally saying that there's a lot of trouble to complain about in this system, and sometimes it's challenging. It is also a matter of different rules for private and public parking companies, and it has been shown, recently in a TV programme, that it is harder and much more expensive to complain to the public eight parking companies. That's what we're looking at. For I want us to have the same responses to violations of the rules, we shall have equal appeal rules, and we shall have the right to appeal to a common complaint subject. In that work, of course, we also see how to distribute the burden of proof. I cannot give a concrete answer to the question of whether images should be required. It has been highlighted, and it is one of the elements that we are going to consider in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1667	I appreciate that the measure will be included in the work further, and I am anxious to wait for the Government to present this matter. On the other hand, it is also a little important that the Council of State follow-up applies to the use of commissions. Although it is now said that it is not a practice for car parks to work under a so-called commission system, we as drivers do not have any guarantee for that. How can the Minister follow up on the end of this commissioning practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1674	If we are to be sure to end it, one by one must include in the law that it is prohibited. This can be done in the law that is currently being drafted. It's also an item that we don't have taken the position for. What we've been told is that there's no widespread use of this, and that one has gone away from it, because there's been a lot of criticism of the system. But to guarantee that it doesn't exist, I can't do it today. I also agree with the representative that there is an premature system, and we want to see how we can possibly do further work to put an end to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1682	‘The Gjøvik police force has been reported to have committed serious misconduct in the service in connection with an infringement case. What is particularly bad about the matter is that the responsible can get away because of it. period of limitation. At the same time, the Council of State has said that such matters should be followed up in a proper manner. Does the Council of State consider that this matter has been dealt with properly, and how can it be prevented from repeating itself in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1689	As Minister of Justice, I cannot comment on the treatment or outcome of individual cases. It is well known to the representative of Ellingen. This matter must be dealt with within the control mechanisms applicable to police and prosecution authorities. The current control mechanisms applicable to police and prosecution authorities are the complaint mechanism of the police and the Special Police Unit. The appeal procedure is governed by instructions on requests for criticism made in the service of the police and officers' seats and concerns complaints concerning the performance of the police's duties. Complaints are dealt with administratively in the police district and by the Police Directorate as a Board of Appeal. The purpose of the scheme is to ensure a sound and consistent treatment of critical issues. In addition, the Board of Appeal shall ensure that the police make use of the possibility of better police service which may lie in such enquiries, as well as increase public confidence in the establishment. The special unit is an independent body to investigate matters relating to whether an employee of the police or of the prosecution authorities has committed a criminal offence in the service. It would be very unfortunate if I allowed myself to deal with that kind of matter. The government believes that the work on protecting children should be of high priority. Therefore, in order to identify weaknesses and improve police handling of such cases, it is essential that the apparatus to control police activity is effective and independent and has confidence in the population. As you know, I have reduced a sample to evaluate the police control mechanisms. It's led by Liv Finstad. The Committee shall review the Police Special Unit, the police complaint mechanism and evaluate the interaction between the Special Unit and the complaint mechanism. The Committee shall present its work in a report by 31 December 2008. I also want to add that the Stortinget has debated several times measures that address abuses, in particular against children and women. The specific actions of the ‘turning point’ action plan and the other measures that are now being developed will contribute to a sufficient focus on child abuse by the police. I believe that gradually establishing children's homes around the whole country will contribute to a stronger focus and better quality of research, so that we ensure that these matters are taken as seriously as they deserve - because there is crime of the most serious kind we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1704	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I particularly agree with the last part of the Council of State's response, where he claimed that what is important is that we take care of children who are particularly vulnerable. We have to have a system that takes into account their safety, and not least in matters where children are involved, we have a proper and good follow-up. What is tragic in this example is that the state that could have been involved and possibly prevented a new offense is the state that is actually investigating what has happened. I think it is dramatic when you are reported for gross insensibility in the ministry in such a serious infringement case. My question is therefore: does the Council of State feel that the threshold for the use of the penal code in the context of gross misconduct in service is at a good level today, or does the Council of State see the need to enter that paragraph and see whether it should be adjusted, so that we are made more clear that public employees who have an important social position are also conscious of their own responsibilities?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1711	I am concerned that anyone accused of criminal offences in Norway, whether police or ordinary people, should be entitled to full legal certainty. Then I believe that we should be extremely careful, both from the government and from the government, not only by expressing the degree of seriousness, but also almost thoughts of guilt, before the special unit, investigation, prosecution authority and court have settled the matter. I think we should be very restrained by that. We risk the opposite if we go into such things. Now the Special Device will be evaluated. It's natural to look at whether or not you enforce the rules you have in a sufficient way. The challenge lies not primarily in the fact that today's rules are too bad on the issue of gross insensibility in the service - where we have very clear rules - but the challenge lies to a large extent in whether we have good practice, not only in relation to criminal matters but also in complaints.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1718	I'm recording the response to the Council of State. As far as legal certainty is concerned, we agree that it should be at the bottom. It's an absolute factor in everything. At the same time, however, the Council of State does not escape the fact that the threshold of where criminal law is to be enforced is a political matter. This means that if the Council of State believes that the threshold is too high today, for example. in the case of gross insensibility in service, the State Council has the possibility to do something about it. I note that the Council of State is leaning back and will await an evaluation from others. This means that you wait for a political focus on this, while clearly there may be cases where individual employees do not do a good enough job. I have perceived it there that the Council of State is concerned about defending the weakest in society, and that he is making sure that the tool that we all hope and intend to be in place is indeed. Unfortunately, this type of case is not unique either. Unfortunately, it happens a little too often that we have issues where we ask questions about the public's ability to do what others expect of them. Therefore, I ask the question again: Is the Council of State satisfied with the design of the penal code and the threshold of criminal law in the case of gross insensibility in the service?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1729	I repeat my previous answer. I believe that the challenges in this area are not in criminal law, and that the threshold has been met by the legislative work that has been around these issues over the last few years. Our challenge is that the rules we have are actually being enforced. As far as legal certainty for children is concerned, I am convinced that we have far greater challenges in the way we actually investigate matters - how we address matters, make children and families report to the police. That's where the challenge lies. That's where the government has put its support. In particular, it concerns the construction of children’s homes, the provision of assistance counsel to the victims who need it, the establishment of family violence coordinators in their full capacity and the establishment of their own teams in the police districts to deal with this type of issue. This is where the challenge lies in detecting and committing abuses against children, not in the provision of criminal law on gross insensibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1739	‘Norway spends considerable resources on the management of the Norwegian-Russian border and on the operation of the border station at Storskog. Air traffic from Russia is also subject to appropriate control upon arrival. What is done to ensure that crab trawlers and other Russian vessels adding berths in North Norway are also subject to the same degree of control as land and air traffic?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1746	Control of third-country nationals crossing the Schengen external borders is governed by the Foreign Affairs Act and its circulars, inter alia. The Border Regulations. The Code regulates the control of persons in the context of cross-border crossings - air and maritime borders. Masters of ships, including crab irradiators and other Russian vessels, are obliged to report their arrival to the Norwegian authorities before arrival at internal waters. In particular, they are obliged to transmit lists of crew and passengers. The crew and passenger lists are controlled by the police, including: against the Schengen Information System (SIS). In the light of these notifications, as well as threat assessments and local risk analyses, the police assess the need to carry out physical checks. Such assessments shall include, inter alia: on the basis of whether third-country nationals are on board and whether they are subject to visa requirements. Experience has shown that the risk associated with Russian fishing vessels, both in terms of illegal immigration and other crime, has been low. Physical checks carried out by the police in recent years confirm that the risk is low. For the sake of order, it is added that in our many seaports receiving ships for loading, unloading, repair or bunkering, there is no permanent passport and person control in place. This is also not a requirement under the Schengen acquis and is not recorded as a problem in comparison with border controls at air and national borders. In addition, the Coast Guard has been given limited police authorities in order to carry out checks on persons on entry and exit. Finally, it should be mentioned that customs controls and, where appropriate, controls by the fisheries authorities when landing catch are added. I also refer in particular to the efforts made by the Minister of Fisheries and the Government as a whole in relation to UUU fishing, which deserves to be more focused, and which have also resulted in good and extensive cooperation, among other things. with Norwegian judicial authorities and Russian judicial authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1755	In the churches a large number of crab irradiators are stuck because of limited capacity at Russian ports, and we have to assume that the entry of foreign ships in Troms and Finnmark will be increasing in the years to come. We believe that the same preparedness for human trafficking, drug trafficking, etc. is important. at ports which, in the case of land and air traffic. Is the Council of State of the opinion that the plan is sufficient, that the control apparatus is sufficient, and not least that the resources are sufficient to deal with the type of challenge that we are likely to see in Troms and Finnmark, and that we are already seeing?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1760	We believe that both the plan and the human resources we have, and the resources that are used on that kind of control, are sufficient from the situation we are facing today. There I refer to the risk considerations made in relation to the challenges such as: these trawls constitute. In all areas -- at least in the field I'm assigned to rule -- we always have a responsibility to see how things evolve, and there we also have to include the need for resources. So there will be a discussion and a question that we always have to consider in all the budgets we adopt in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1765	I'll take a short question in the end. Is the Council of State of the opinion that port preparedness is as good as land and air traffic?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1770	There's a little bit of a question about what to compare. Here we have described a risk picture where the needs are different. But let me put it this way: if you're going to have a preparedness that matches the risk profile you have, I think our port security is probably as good as the readiness we're looking at the other arenas where foreign citizens come to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1778	‘Stavanger has been hit by several rapes in the last few weeks. The police have DNA traces in the case, but have to wait up to six weeks for answers from the forensic institute. GENA AS in Stavanger can give answers in 48 hours. When the Government now sees the consequences of its policy, are they willing to reconsider their position on the use of private approved laboratories?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1785	The clear objective of government is to reduce the scope of violence, sexual assault and rape. Sexual assault is an extreme physical and psychological expression of oppression and violation of human inviolability and dignity. In addition, sexual assaults are very serious criminal acts, which must not only give high priority to police and judicial action, but also pay particular attention to the victim’s need for retaliation. Here our DNA wager has been central. We spend considerable amounts this year - over 60 million. kr - to strengthen the DNA usage in these matters. That's what's central to this. DNA profiles can be of major importance in the investigation of criminal offences. That's why this government, in line with the Soria Moria Declaration, has been able to get through its bill to expand the DNA register. The government has also recently promoted a legislative proposal on the establishment of a DNA investigation register, which could contribute to significant simplifications of the investigation and in the long term contribute to increasing the general percentage of information in these cases. The government prioritises getting the Forensic Institute and Kripos upgraded to avoid bottlenecks in analysis and registration/search. With the big DNA bet the government is now phased in from September 1st this year - with the said 64 million. - we believe that we will face up to this in the future in a safe way. The increased DNA budget goes to get more police staff, to equipment and to strengthen the Forensic Institute. All in all, the police have 27 positions for the DNA mission. The RMI shall receive six positions and salary resources of a project manager on engagement. We believe it is right that we channel these resources into this described device. The matters in Stavanger that the inquirer addresses are still under investigation. I should therefore be somewhat reluctant to comment on these concretely, but I have to say something about the procedure. In the case of the two cases in Stavanger, it can be stated that on 29 February this year, the RMI received material from the police with a request for priority. The RMI was informed that there was no suspicion in the matter. The material was examined the same day -- I underline the same day -- and the DNA results on this material were available after one week -- March 7th this year. The result is not suitable for registration in the DNA register but can be compared to reference samples. The DNA profile from gloves transmitted the DNA register - without a hit. More material and more reference samples of witnesses have been received by the RMI. The contracting entity has been continuously informed of the results. In the second case - raped by Hotel Viktoria - the material was received by RMI on 29 February this year. The RMI was informed of the request for priority on 17 March. The material was examined on March 18th, the day after the priority was given, and the DNA results were available on March 31st. It was for information Easter break between 19 and 25 March. There is no result suitable for registration in the DNA registry, but it can be compared to reference samples. In both cases, material was sent to the RMI, and after specified priority from the police, it took about one week – in working days – before the result was available. The police have been continuously informed of the results of the reference tests. The Ministry of Justice has been in contact with the State Attorney's Office, which has again been in contact with the State Attorney in Rogaland. With regard to time-use by the RMI, the investigation team at Rogaland Police District confirms that when priority has been requested, the investigation has been prioritised in the RMI and the time-use at RMI has not, in his view, inhibited the investigation. In general, it can be emphasised that if DNA is used to provide a rapid explanation of an assault where the perpetrator is unknown, it means that the perpetrator has biological trace material of such quality that the trace can be recorded in the DNA register. Furthermore, it means that the perpetrator is registered. If the perpetrator is not registered, the disclosure is entirely dependent on the ordinary investigation. Samples routinely secured in assault cases often do not contain, or sparingly contain, cell material from the perpetrator. Therefore, the tests do not always provide a DNA result of such quality that it is suitable for registration in the DNA registry. In some cases, however, the results may be compared with any reference samples and any clarification will depend on tactical investigation leading to the acquisition of a sample by the perpetrator.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1808	I record that in yesterday's Rogaland newspaper, the police chief at Stavanger Police Station, Henry Ove Berg, says: “Of course it had meant a lot to get answers to DNA tests after two days, and not after two months, then we could also do tactical assessments. It is a strong wish on our part that things will go much faster." So even though the Council of State here refers to some examples of rapid progress, this is a strong wish of the police in this matter. I record that the Minister of Justice, even though he is confronted with the consequences of a misguided policy, is not willing to reconsider his position. The Minister of Justice says they're taking these kinds of cases very seriously. I don't doubt that. So do we. But the Minister of Justice doesn't take these kinds of things so seriously that he's willing to put his ideological chauffeurs on the shelf to get the police to use the tools they want to use.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1822	It is a little unclear to me now what the problem is for the questioner, because when the police have asked for priority, it has gone very quickly, and it has gone faster than the private initiative could offer. So here I actually think you have a system that works. That was also the background that I went into it so thoroughly. It's my opinion that it's appropriate -- and right -- that now that we're developing the DNA reform that we're doing, such kind of evidence assurance and evidence development should just be on public hands. It is a matter of legal certainty. But I also think that's right for rational reasons. We're going to invest an incredible amount of resources in it, and I think it's right to build a strong professional environment that can handle this. To all intents and purposes, we see that in the specific matters raised by Stavanger, where priority has been asked, priority has been given.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1829	The Minister of Justice should not try to create the impression that this is not a problem, when the police have been so clear for a long time that cows at the Institute of Forensics are a challenge in the field of investigation. So I have to ask the question: what is the Minister of Justice the fundamental difference between the fact that this type of sample is sent to private approved institutes in Norway and that they are sent to private approved institutes abroad? Why does this government accept that analyses of samples related to sensitive health information every day in thousands are carried out by private laboratories, while similar ones in the justice sector are suddenly prohibited by law - promoted by this government? What is the difference in principle between using private institutions abroad for tests related to health care and using private institutions for tests in the justice sector when requested by the police?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1836	I think I'm going to say that the system we're now developing is the same system as the Right-Administration system when they just put in government a few years ago. There was no initiative from the Right to establish anything else in addition to this. I think it is important in terms of the development of evidence we see in criminal matters, especially in relation to DNA, that it is the public that should handle it, in particular to ensure that just all legal certainty considerations are taken care of, and that there can be no doubt that there should be no other motives in relation to the tests. So that's the rational argument: now that you're facing such a development in relation to DNA wagering, I'm convinced that we get the best we can -- we get the most out of the crowns, and we get the best and most effective management of the DNA project -- by that it's the professional environment around the RMI that's going to handle it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1854	I will be asked the following questions by the Minister of Health: ‘Previously, the Public Health Institute has recommended that the HPV vaccine be included in the national vaccination programme. This recommendation has now also been passed on by the National Council for Quality and Priorities in Health. In many other countries with which we usually compare, the HPV vaccine has been introduced. Will the Council of State now follow the advice of Folkehelsa and the National Council for Quality and Priority in Health Care and ensure that Norwegian women also have access to HPV vaccines?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1863	Firstly, it is a major step forward for women’s health that vaccines have been developed that can prevent sexually transmitted transmission of a virus, HPV, that can lead to precursors of and later to cervical cancer. A number of scientific articles and reports demonstrate the efficacy and cost-effectiveness of the vaccine. A scientific report published on 22 January 2008 by the EU Agency for Disease Control concludes that vaccination against cervical cancer is an effective prevention strategy. The European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products has recently established that no evidence of a causal link between the use of the vaccine and reported serious adverse reactions has been found so far. With a protective power exceeding 95 pst. against cancer precursors and a vaccination coverage of about 90 pst. will be able to achieve, in the long term, a halve in the number of annual cases, assuming one. About 300 Norwegian women are affected by this every year, and between 80 and 100 die of cervical cancer every year. In addition, the vaccine will help fewer women to develop uterine cell changes with subsequent surgical interventions, with an increased risk of sensitisation and premature births. There has been a decrease in the number of cervical cancers between the 1970s and today, which is largely attributable to the screening program that we have. The target group of the screening programme is women aged 25-69 years, but 23 pst. does not participate in the screening programme. 60 pst. of the annual cervical cancer cases affecting women who have not participated in the screening programme. As the representative is aware, vaccination of young girls against cervical cancer has already begun in a number of countries. This applies, inter alia, to: United States, Belgium, Germany, France, Italy and Australia. England starts till the fall. In Denmark, on 1 March 2008, the government submitted a wide-ranging agreement whereby, from 1 October 2008, girls 13-15 years ago are to be offered what is called a collection programme, while the vaccination programme itself for girls 12 years begins on 1 January 2009. In Sweden, the vaccine has been provisionally admitted as a reimbursement entitlement for girls 13-17 years of age. The Social Security Board has recently proposed offering the vaccine to girls in school stages 5 and 6. The proposal has now been consulted before a final decision is taken to include the vaccine in the paediatric vaccination programme in Sweden. The recommendations of the National Institute for Public Health and reaching the National Council for Quality and Priority in Health, together with experience from other countries, will help to provide the basis for my decision-making in the further consideration of this issue. As for the introduction of other new measures with budgetary implications, any introduction of the vaccine against cervical cancer would have to be made a priority in the work of the Government on budget proposals. The government has per cent No decision has been taken on this matter today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1880	I would first like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I suspect that the Council of State is very concerned about this, and she will probably also get it in place. I'm not going to interfere in the government's budget debate--they're doing it on their own. My question, of course, is that we see an increasing number of countries implementing this vaccination programme. It turns out there's a very large percentage that doesn't develop this cancer after that. All of our professional bodies have now recommended this. We are left with one thing: if it is not introduced, it must be purely for economic reasons, because the professional bodies have said yes. Will the Council of State make sure that a decision can be taken quickly in this matter, so that we get the effect of what we want?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1887	Let me repeat that it is a very breakthrough that we have now received this vaccine, and that it is recommended by then to say all the professional bodies-- I hear there is still some disagreement among professionals about this vaccine. And that's usually interesting what's happening in other countries as well. All of this I and the Government take with us in the round we're going to have on this case. Unfortunately, I can't say anything more today than that I'm seafaring--and I perceive that the representative Nesvik is also, and many with us--busy of all things that can help us prevent diseases and also prevent people from dying. So the representative understands that this must be decided by the government, but the government has not yet done so. We have just received the latest recommendation from the National Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1892	I thank you again for the answer, and it will be interesting to see when the matter comes to consideration in Stortinget. Once again, in a number of different areas, we are calling for research to try to find answers to the cancer problem. Now we've been able to develop a vaccine that we've actually been asking for for many, many years. This is being worked on in several fields. It is clear that for a nation such as Norway, which is a nation with a relatively good economy, which also has an up-to-date research environment, and which has the opportunity to assess these matters in the long term, it is important that this should also be used. That is why I hope that you will not let it go both winter and spring. We have a budgetary procedure, revised before the summer. For the girls, I hope this will be mentioned in that context. In the case that some trade unions speak negatively, the only thing I have seen is that individuals are sporadic in some environments. Will the Council of State now make sure that we can get the matter quickly on the table in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1903	I am very concerned about this matter, as I am of many other matters, but the representative knows very well that I cannot say more than what I am doing now, because we have not made a decision in the Government. But I repeat, I think it's very interesting what's happening in other countries. Of course, I am also very aware of the rather unanimous professional recommendations in the matter, so there is no doubt that we are concerned about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1911	My question goes to the Minister of Health: ‘Some older nursing homes are affected by resistant yellow staphylococci, MRSA. Infections and infestations 5 weeks in isolates. Too many people, this is a heavy load, a sense of coercion. A 91-year-old woman was recently diagnosed with infection without being ill, and is in isolate one month. The room is without telephone, radio and TV, she has not been able to move and has only occasional staff contact. The patient notices a clear mental reduction. Will the Council of State provide new regulations for the insulation of space, activity and care?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1920	The spread of resistant pathogenic bacteria in health institutions is unfortunate for several reasons. Firstly, there is no doubt that patients in health institutions are at increased risk of getting serious infections, and resistance is often complicated by the treatment they may receive. Secondly, treatment of infections is expensive, both because the drugs that work are expensive and because treatment can take longer. Thirdly, the increased presence of resistant bacteria may mean that the entire antibiotic policy needs to be changed, which will increase costs and further increase resistance development in the population. It's a serious challenge. The Public Health Institute published in 2004 a professional guide for dealing with what is termed MRSA. It was primarily aimed at dealing with MRSA in hospitals. In the years that followed, the incidence of MRSA has also increased outside hospitals, as the questioner here points out. The incidence of infirmity increased particularly in 2005 and 2006. Because of this, the Public Health Institute has launched the revision of the MRSA supervisor. One of the main objectives of the audit is to make recommendations on how to handle this in the healthcare sector outside hospitals. In its work on the audit, the Public Health Institute has focused on acquiring knowledge and experience from both specialist and community health services in managing MRSA. This has been done both by publishing drafts and by sending feedback to healthcare professionals and by arranging their own days where this is the subject. MRSA Day was held on April 1st this year, and one of the topics that was thoroughly discussed was the spread of this in hospital. In the draft new guide, the Institute of Public Health proposes the following: Isolation should only be used in exceptional cases in relation to hospital residents with MRSA long-term isolation is not necessary instead of isolation, MRSA should be controlled by enhanced infection protection measures inside the occupant's room and careful compliance with general infection protection measures outside the occupant's room once the occupant has completed the stowage, he may leave his room: Both in feedback on the draft new guide and in the discussion on this special day, 1 April, there was a broad consensus in the professional community on these recommendations. Several nursing homes have now tried out this model for dealing with MRSA, where residents are not being isolated. They report good experience in terms of both better quality of life, maritime, population and low risk of transmission. The new recommendations are expected to be ready for publication in the summer. A revised professional guide will be sufficient to change current practice and a regulatory change is not necessary. So I look optimistic about this too.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1950	Thank you for a very clarifying answer! I hope that one in these new regulations will take into account what it is like to be in isolates, and as the council says, a softer up a little bit of these boundaries that have been to date. Infection with yellow staphylococci is probably just going to be more of a future, so it's a big challenge for the nursing homes. I think that getting some clearer quality rules on this will also have something to say for the quality of life of the individual patient. And I'm not in doubt about the elderly who say that this has been a great burden to them. In this case, county doctors and infectious agents have not done anything, and they have been concerned about the person concerned. Does the Council of State see that there will be an improvement for patients with this new model, and does she see that there is also a challenge in having better qualified health care staff in relation to these infectious and MRSA challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1957	Firstly, I agree to say everything that the representative Larsen now says, and I'm not a second in doubt that this will mean a much better situation for those who are infected by these yellow staphylococci. It is a completely different situation of life to be isolated for five weeks than being in the room and being out among the others, and it is very good that it is possible to prevent infection to others if one implements proper hygiene and infection protection measures, as has now been tried at some hospitals. The fact that there is such a broad consensus professionally also makes me sure that this is the way to go. So it's going to start in just a few months, this summer. Neither do we need regulatory changes, so this will go as fast as it actually does now, and it will have to mean a better situation for those who are affected by this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1962	Thank you again for your answer! I think this new model that the Council of State now describes, must also be clear on this with quality of life and not just the outer boundaries. The contents must be pointed out in relation to the patient’s needs in order for us to have a comprehensive solution. One more thing that should be included in this new model is that many of these patients have experienced that the doctor says you have to be isolated. They don't perceive the grey zone between volunteering and coercion, and many of them feel that they're just forced into an isolate, and that it's not on a voluntary basis. Does the Council of State see that the relationship between volunteering and coercion can be somewhat unclear in this situation, and that as a society we protect ourselves from infection at the expense of the individual's freedom?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1967	I very much believe that the new recommendations, which will be completed in the summer, will clarify many of the questions that the representative Larsen has here. They will then be sent to all the municipalities and hospitals of the country, and they will be practised. Clearly, there are balances between taking into account the quality of life of the sick and infected person and not having to infect others if you can avoid it. But I see that through the professional feedback and recommendations we have now received, it is possible to take care of both parts, both that the person who is ill can get better quality of life, and also that one prevents others from getting sick. Then we can win two things at once, which will be very positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1975	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘In February, a man from Sigdal was cut off by two fingers in an accident at work. After being transported in an ambulance, he got morphine and was admitted to the Hospital Buskerud, he had to wait 11 hours for surgery. According to the hospital, this was justifiable. Does the Council agree that it is appropriate for a man with severe acute pain to wait 11 hours for surgery?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1984	Our hospitals are going to provide patients with high-quality services. Governments are keen to ensure that hospitals make the best use of resources and that they facilitate the quality of patient care and have the right priorities. Then it is clear that the patients who need the most should be treated first. Good logistics and interaction within hospitals is a key prerequisite for quality and is necessary for patients not to experience unnecessary delays and delays. I know that hospitals are actively working to improve logistics and internal interaction, for example. by designing common treatment lines for different patient groups. Unfortunately, it happens from time to time that priorities have to be made that require some patients to wait a little longer than desirable, for example. before an operation. This specific patient history, I understand, is about a patient who had been hospitalized for acute injury. In the light of the review of the emergency receptions by the Health Authority last year, I have just focused on the emergency functions in hospitals and instructed health care companies to organise the emergency reception facilities in a way that ensures proper patient treatment. The work shall be carried out in close dialogue with the Directorate for Health, which has been commissioned to look at the best possible organisation of hospital emergency services. There is no doubt that, in general, we have a challenge, including: Because one of the things we see is that the most inexperienced doctors are those who meet patients in acute situations. We have to get to a twist of it. There are also some other control measures that need to be taken here. The work that has done to correct the defects and deviations of the emergency receptions mentioned by the State Health Authority is good. This has happened as a result of my orders to the health companies in March, and I'm not just waiting, I demand, that the offer at the country's emergency reception gets better than what we've seen some examples of, and as the Health Authority has pointed out. With regard to the specific case, I ask for an understanding that as a State Council I cannot go in and assess whether each patient is receiving proper treatment or not. I think everyone can agree that eleven hours to wait for an operation is quite long, but it is the doctors who have to assess whether it is proper or not. In this case, if there is doubt as to the soundness of the case, there is one matter that the Health Inspectorate must assess in Buskerud. However, through contact with Health South-East I have assured myself that the Hospital Buskerud is working on making the waiting time for surgery as short as possible for all patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e1993	I thank you for your answer. I understand that the Minister of Health cannot go directly into the matter, but I have. What comes in addition to this is that the patient in question has diabetes, and he was told quite early when he came into the emergency, where he was received in a good way, that soon the orthopedic would come and look at him. The doctor came after an hour and a half and said he had to operate within one to two hours. Then nothing happens in nine hours. The diabetic had to fast for almost eleven hours. It's bad in itself. So the patient says to me that if they only admitted that they made a mistake, that it was a mistake, he would leave the matter alone. But when this does not happen, and when the health consultant at the hospital says to Drammen's Official Journal that this was perfectly sound, it seems that there is a way to cover a loss. Does the Minister of Health think that there is a good way to deal with the patient?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e2000	I again ask for an understanding that it is difficult for me to go into the specific matter. In addition, I do not know all the sides, except that I am not necessarily doubting what the representative here says. But it would be quite impossible if I were to go into all the individual matters, and that is not what I am competent to do either. That there is generally an improvement potential at our emergency reception, both in terms of messages, interaction, that people are quickly enough to be taken care of, etc., there is absolutely no doubt about it. Here there'll be a lot of radical changes-- let me express myself that way. But I say it again, that if there is any doubt about the soundness of the matter, there is one thing that should be addressed with the Health Service in Buskerud.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e2007	I thank you for your answer. If you're going to ask the question that's natural, in a more general way, the question is, what kind of feedback should a patient get after experiencing a traumatic experience, either by having to wait a long time, or by having a failed operation or other things? What kind of guidelines are there on the table? Does the Council of State consider this to be satisfactory in the case of Norwegian hospitals? In this particular case, which the Council of State naturally will not go directly into, the patient has not received a single explanation, a single feedback--no thing after the traumatic experience. It is clear that it is perceived as quite tough, and when you read in the paper that this went quite well, this was proper, the patient becomes reasonably concerned about whether this is the case in other cases as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e2016	I have no reason to doubt that basically things work pretty well, but that it is potential for improvement, there is no doubt about it. I would like to make it clear that I am now speaking in general and not particularly about the case in Buskerud, which I understand was difficult. It is also clear that there are clear guidelines that everyone should be seen, heard, respected and given feedback. If things don't go completely as planned because something acute happens all of a sudden -- there are sad accidents or other things that can make it take longer -- then people should be informed about why. It's also natural that people get an explanation or an orientation in retrospect, if things didn't go as planned. That's the general guidelines, and I expect all patients to be met with such dignity.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e2026	This question, from the representative of Øyvind Korsberg to the Minister for Renewal and Administration, will be answered by the Minister for Children and Gender Equality on behalf of the Minister for Renewal and Administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e2029	I want to ask you the following questions: «The prices of petrol in Norway have followed a strict weekly pattern in recent years. On Monday, the gas price is set up heavily throughout the country, with a gradual reduction over the week, and it is lowest on weekends and Monday morning. The purchase price of petrol does not vary with the days of the week. Can the Council of State explain why the petrol price follows such a weekly pattern at its gas stations, and in what way has the Competition Authority been involved in the matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e2038	Competition supervision is required under the Competition Act to monitor competition in the various markets and to monitor compliance with the competition laws’ prohibitions and prohibitions. This is a task for which supervision has a separate responsibility to follow up. In the context of the question raised by the representative of Korsberg, the Competition Authority has briefed the Ministry of Renewal and Administration that supervision has gained knowledge of the price development of the fuel market in the context of previous price surveys and business services issues. Following the examination of the concentration between Norwegian Shell AS and YX Energy Norway AS, the Authority has collected information from the operators in order to monitor the competitive conditions in the fuel sales markets in Norway. In this context, it has collected indicative prices from different actors for the period 2004-2007. Data collected by supervision confirm that a frequent increase in prices is observed on Monday, and falling prices over and over a week. However, the more comprehensive numbering material of the Competition Authority is not as clear a pattern as the research article of Professors Frode Steen and Øystein Foros gives the impression of, and I assume is the background to the question asked by the representative Korsberg. Researchers point out that a possible explanation of a weekly price pattern can be coordination between oil companies. The Competition Authority therefore invited the researchers to submit the supervisory report at a meeting on 8 April, i.e. yesterday. I do not know what appeared at this meeting. If the case warrants the enforcement of the prohibition provisions of the Competition Act, it is the matter of the supervision to be dealt with. The ministry doesn't get involved in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e2049	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I have to say that it is good to hear that the question has received the attention it deserves from the Competition Authority, and that the Competition Authority will now go into the research report that has been made. This is a very important issue, simply because cooperation on price is illegal. There's a lot of ways to do it. I think there is every reason to react when you see the kind of parallel behaviour you experience when it comes to pricing. Now I am aware that this is not the subject of this Council of State, but I still ask for the views of the Council of State, as the representative of the Government: Is the Council of State of the opinion that competition is open and real?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e2060	We have clear rules for this in the Competition Act, and it is the supervision to ensure that the Competition Act is complied with. I know that we have a good law in this area, and that we have a supervision that does everything they can to follow up this law.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e2065	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It was actually the Council of State's view that I was looking for, not the Competition Authority's. I am also aware that it is the Competition Authority that supervises the law, but it must nevertheless be fully possible for both a Council of State and the Government to have a view on this. That was the view I was looking for, but I understand that the Council of State does not want to answer it. I can also ask the question whether the Government intends to follow up this case with the Competition Authority, not by imposing something on the Competition Authority, but simply by getting a report back from the Competition Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e2074	We have been made aware that the Competition Authority is looking at this matter. They will, of course, provide further information on how the matter is handled. This is obviously a matter that all parties are going to follow closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e2082	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: ‘In the last two years, the Food Authority has uncovered about 25 so-called farm animal tragedys, where farmers expose their livestock to malnutrition, shortages of feed and water. Many cases are not detected until the entire crew is starving or has to be killed for other reasons. The government has commented on the matter that it will present a new animal welfare law until next year. What will the Government do with this unworthy situation in Norwegian agriculture in the short term, and what effect does the Council of State think the legislative proposal could have?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e2091	First of all, I believe that the representative Torbjørn Hansen addresses a very important issue and asks a relevant question, because it is always bad to hear about matters where animals die or suffer because of lack of feeding and care. Food surveillance has not recorded any increase in the number of cases in recent years. There has been a stable number, but nevertheless I believe that every case is too much. Recent media coverage of these events has been increasing. I think some of the explanation for that is increasing use of images. Pictures are available from the inspections and work of the Food Safety Authority, and this helps to increase the focus. I believe that the focus and publicity in such matters is good, because it can help prevent new issues from developing. A case in Trøndelag last week was just revealed as a result of a tip motivated by the statements about the case at Easter. This means that increasing public awareness is also an important tool. I think it has to, even if it can give an additional burden to the animal owner. I believe that these matters are very much due to personal problems of the animal owner. It is therefore important to capture signs that something is going wrong as early as possible. Many measures have been put in place to prevent animal trachea. In the budget proposal and in the 2008 grant letter, I commissioned the Food Safety Authority to strengthen the supervision of animal welfare, in particular with a view to preventing animal tragedy. However, the supervision of the authorities alone is not sufficient to prevent the development of such tragedies. In this connection, I held a meeting yesterday with a number of business organisations and the Food Safety Authority to see how the industry and the overall resources of the authorities can be used as best as possible in this area. In addition to the industry’s own organisations, the Norwegian veterinary association also participated in this meeting. Other actors that can and should play an important role here are, for example: social and health services and animal welfare organisations. These have different opportunities to capture risk-taking through their daily work. There are a large number of organisations involved. This means that together we have a great deal of expertise and resources that can be used to meet the challenges we are facing. At the same time, I want to make it clear that such matters can be very difficult to detect in time. In order to gain more systematic knowledge of how to prevent such events, the Food Safety Authority has informed me that they will go through every single event in retrospect, in order to create an even better basis for designing further actions. I think it's important that we do that, and I also think it's important -- as I was so concerned with initially -- that we get more transparency around this in general. We have to establish a culture where it's allowed to care, where it's recognised to care because it's about helping, and where caring out in the village doesn't mean that one is indicating or that one wants something bad. On the contrary, caring means that someone wants to help. By avoiding animal traffickers, we not only prevent animal disease, but we can help prevent the animal owner from becoming a criminal and losing its financial basis in addition to its own problems. In the draft new Animal Welfare Act, which has been consulted recently, the Government has proposed a general warning obligation to prevent animal tragities. Each person is required, on the basis of the proposal, to give notice when they have reason to believe that animals are being subjected to abuse or serious failures concerning the environment, supervision and care. There are also proposals to give health professionals the right to alert if they have reason to fear animal welfare through their work. The proposal also proposes other measures to prevent the development of pet tragae, including: requirements of competence and easier the possibility of depriving people of animals if they are not properly cared for. I have great expectations of concrete results from the actions undertaken in the short and long term, in the form of fewer animal trag animals and in the form of a general increase in the awareness of animal welfare in food production.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e2114	I would like to thank you for your answer. It's an expression from agriculture that in this context gets a little macabre, but it's called that while the grass grows, the cow dies. The situation is that this problem of animal tragedy has been widespread in Norwegian agriculture for many years, and that there is a rather stable situation - unfortunately. In today's VG we can read about a farmer in the North-Fron who let 128 sheep starve to death after his tractor collapsed. In the nation on March 28th - a little over a week ago - it says of a farmer who caused 32 sheep to starve. And in the Passover, 38 cattle were scattered on a farm in Eastfold. The statistics show that this is happening approximately. every 14 days. Every 14 days, you'll find a crew starved on the booth. Given that the situation is quite stable, my question is: does the Council of State believe that some of the measures that he has now launched, and which come with this law, will have a noticeable effect, so that we get a real reduction in this problem in 2009?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e2125	Yeah, I think so. I think that working with two angles of incidence here gives us results. One approach is that we improve the framework conditions for animal welfare through state law and legislation, partly from my department and partly through the practice of the Food Authority. That's one leg of this work. The second is that we are now going to intensify the work on networking in the countryside, and we need to get a cultural change out of what I said in my first answer, to care. It's quite obvious that today there's a culture that's going on that you're afraid to care because you're being viewed as one that interferes unjustly in more personal circumstances. When we know that all of them, most of them, are about personal problems, whether they're about breakups, financial problems, mental problems for the rest, it's quite obvious that getting in early, revealing relationships, saying from if you see anything, it's all, the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e2132	I agree with the Council of State that one of the problems here is that people don't give notice, and that increasing media awareness leads to more people caring. People don't want to silence the neighbor -- and maybe there are sensible mechanisms in the Norwegian people that make it that way -- but here there's a need for people to alert. Then it is interesting for me to hear what the Council of State thinks about one possible measure. We have so-called emergency phones in some areas of our society. Could there have been an idea about the Food Authority setting up an alert phone, and that it was marketed in the media that Norwegian farmers and others are following, so that one gave a very clear signal that here is the low threshold, here people should contact if they are unsure, send a message of concern if you believe that this type of event takes place on a farm? The last thing I want to ask the Council of State is, is, is this a typical little business case? Is this a typical consequence of having too many small users in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e2141	To the end, I want to be very careful about stigmatizing. I think we're going to stick to what I said instead of the starting point for the problems, that it's largely about personal problems for the individual, and it's not going beyond that. With regard to the representative's proposals, I think it's an interesting idea to take it further. It is quite obvious that establishing a lower threshold to notify, a lower threshold to care about, is one of the things that needs to be done. If there could have been a measure that would help lower the threshold, I have no objections to continuing to work on it. So that proposal I'm going to take with me and discuss with the Food Authority, and see if there can be a way forward to make it easier and more acceptable that people care when they should care.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e2151	I record that the Minister for Children and Gender Equality has already answered my question in the press today, but I still ask the question now: ‘Approval as adoption parents in Norway lasts for two years with the possibility of a one-year extension. A Norwegian couple who received their approval 28 months ago are waiting for a child from China. They have been granted authorisation for three years, but that may not be enough. However, if they are granted before 20 December, they may have to go through the whole application procedure again if the child has not arrived within that period. It's pointless and resource-intensive. What can the Council of State do to avoid this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e2160	The representative of the Dryersdal addresses an important issue, with which the adoption authorities are familiar. In the last three years, the number of foreign adoptions to Norway has fallen markedly. There seems to be fewer children today who are involved in foreign adoption. This has led to longer implementation of a foreign adoption. A discrepancy between the number of children to be adopted and the number of adoptive applicants leads to many waiting for a child here in Norway. The United Nations Children’s Convention and the Hague Convention for the Protection of Children and Cooperation in International Adoptions oblige Norwegian authorities to ensure that adoption takes place with respect for the fundamental rights of the child. The Hague Convention also has detailed rules in this area. An important task for the country of destination is to ensure that adoption applicants can give the child a good and lasting home. A prior authorisation shall be granted for a period of two years with the possibility of a one-year extension. The reason is that there may be changes in the economic, social or health situation of adoption applicants. Applicants are therefore obliged to inform the adoption authorities if changes occur in their lives. As I understand the representative Tørersdal, the applicants she refers to expect to be awarded a child before the extended prior authorisation expires, but they do not manage to pick up the child within three years. In such cases, an additional extension beyond the three years may be considered in accordance with the applicable guidelines. In other words, if you have already come into contact with the child, you can get a further extension under today's legislation. If the adoption applicants have not been notified of a specific child at the expiry of the prior authorisation, a new application must be promoted with up-to-date documents - and this may take some time. I agree that we need to focus on measures to simplify the procedure, provided that the simplification – and I know that the representative Tørersdal is also concerned about – does not go beyond safeguarding the child's interests. An overall review of the entire adoption field through a NOU shall be carried out in this field. I want to make sure, independently of this, to simplify the treatment of matters relating to the extension of the prior authorisation. This work I will start quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e2175	I thank the Council of State for the answer. There are two things I want to drill a little bit more in. One applies to this couple. As I understand the Council of State, if they are given an assignment, then a letter will be sent to you stating which child is coming, with a simple grip, they will be able to extend the prior approval until the child has arrived. And if they don't get it, they have to go through the application procedure again. Then my question becomes: is it possible to simplify the application procedure so that you do not go through this somewhat bureaucratic and comprehensive procedure again? The reason why I ask is that I think you can take care of the child's concerns by not having too much focus on information that is already there. The second question that I'm very concerned about is, when does that review come? I have asked this question in different variations to the government that has had the same task. They've said there's a big message coming. My question is, When?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e2184	The public investigation to look at the whole of the adoption field in relation to both children's rights and regulatory simplifications will be awaited. When this government sample is reduced, it will become a process in the extension of it. But what's important now are the parents waiting for a child. They may have an extension if they have already come into contact with the child. But the change in the rules that is relevant before the work on the notification and public investigation has begun is to extend to those who have not yet come into contact with a child. In other words, you may have applied, had an extension of one year, but you have not yet made contact with the child. Then it's time to go for a rule change that allows you to get an extension even if you haven't yet been told which child comes home to you.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e2191	I thank the Council of State, for she makes me optimistic. Because as I understand it, this rule change can be made by 20 December, which is the current deadline for this family and for many others who are in the same situation, so that they now have a few months to go on. If the Council of State is serious about this happening soon, I understand that it is possible to make this change of rules - regardless of the large review that will come in the field - in the next few months. Is that correctly understood?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e2198	The representative Tørersdal has understood me correctly. We can make this rule change independent of the public investigation, but when this rule change comes, I'll come back to it. I also know, as the representative Tørresdal, that there are many emerging parents who are waiting and have been through long processes - only a few years when they have in vain tried to have children, and so many years when they have been waiting in adoption queues, so I have an absolute understanding of their situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e2211	I allow myself to ask a question to the Council of State which reads as follows: ‘The protection of children in the heath municipalities has fewer employees and fewer determinations than the average in the country in relation to the number of children. The county receives several complaints about child protection treatment from both users and partners. What can the Council of State do to improve the difficult situation of child protection?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e2220	The representative of Eirin Faldet, in his question, refers to the reporting of municipalities in the area of child protection and to the situation in Hedmark in particular. I am pleased that through this, the representative shows the important political commitment to child protection that is necessary if we are to make good child protection even better. To those who first and foremost know the representative Fallen as an avid spokesperson for roads in this country, I can tell you that after becoming Minister for Children and Gender Equality I have been contacted repeatedly and have seen the huge involvement of the Fall in child protection in Norway and for the children who are most struggling. We've long had a big and important focus on state child protection. I think it's also important that we focus on municipal child protection. It's in the municipalities the kids live in. A lot of people get help in the municipalities. In recent years, the County of Hedmark has consistently had a lower number of complaints about child protection issues. In 2007, the County of Hedmark received seven complaints concerning individual decisions in the field of child protection and nine complaints about the proceedings in the child protection service. The number of complaints in Hedmark is lower than that of other states in the region, such as the United Kingdom. Upland and Eastfold. This applies both to complaints against child protection services and to complaints against institutions. We are also informed that the cooperation between the State team and the Hamar region and the municipalities in Hedmark is good. Buffetat says they have an agreement with all the municipalities about regular contact, both on individual matters and at system level. National child protection is also consulted by telephone from municipalities that need to discuss different issues. Both a user survey conducted by the East Region and a directorate confirm that the cooperation between the State child protection system and the municipalities is good. However, there is reason for concern about child protection in Hedmark. It is true that there are differences in the average number of occupations per country. 10,000 children. On an average basis, there are 23.6 occupations per country. 10,000 children. In the hedeland municipalities, the average is lower - 20.3 trade unions. The figure for Hedmark has been stable in the last few years. Therefore, strengthening the local economy is important. There are relatively many deadlines and instructions for child protection messages in Hedmark. This will be looked at by the department, and I am sure that the county council in Hedmark will follow up its supervisory responsibilities towards each municipality. We also have a cooperation agreement with the KS, where one of the main objectives is how we can, in cooperation, get more attention on child protection and how to prioritise child protection in municipalities. Without knowing the situation in the municipalities of Hedmark in particular, I believe that we have a job to do to increase the political focus on child protection, and I want to contribute to that. I'm going to a child protection conference in Hamar in the near future. There I will take the opportunity to listen to the experiences of child protection. A good child protection only works well if politicians always focus on the improvement points.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e2248	I would like to thank the Council of State for a very thorough and good answer. Fortunately, I have the impression that the Council takes child protection seriously. I am very pleased, on behalf of the children who need adult support of all, most of all. It is true that child protection in Hedmark wears out in many areas. What worries me, of course, is that six out of ten new cases end up with consecration. As the Council of State says, there is a destiny behind every number. In addition, the time-limits are exceeded in about every five cases. It's unsustainable. I hope the Council of State can help lift child protection in Hedmark, so that even more people get help.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e2257	We have a common responsibility to increase the focus on child protection locally. After all, it's not the kids who scream the loudest and go on a demonstration train. That's why we have a common responsibility to raise awareness of this. We've been especially concerned with increasing the level of knowledge in municipalities. That is why we now have regional conferences all over Norway. There are particularly some areas where it is important to increase the level of knowledge. This applies in relation to drug use, mental health protection and violence, and children with behavioural problems. So there's a lot of areas to grab.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e2262	I thank you again for the answer. I agree with the Council when she says that strengthening the local economy is a very important contribution to raising child protection. However, when major issues are discussed in local government, there is no budget line on the life situation of children. So it's very important that more politicians get involved. However, it is also a state responsibility - both in terms of transfers to municipalities and in terms of increasing competence and reducing treatment time. Because it's while the kids are waiting for things to happen, and the kids are getting it even worse in their everyday life. That's what we have a common responsibility to do. I trust the Council of State will take this very seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e2269	Of course, the community economy is crucial for child protection. Professional guidance from the state and strengthening the competence of municipal child protection are important. It is also important what kind of cooperation we have locally between different professional bodies. Many kids who need help go from office to office. There are different bodies responsible for them. So it is important that we get better coordination and cooperation locally on the future of these kids.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e2277	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘From spring 2008 onwards, a new examination scheme will be introduced in Norwegian for primary school where the exam will be held in both bookkeeping and new Norwegian on the same day. Several students, teachers and Norwegian Target Teams have expressed themselves critically about this change, and Norway's Target Team says in a statement that they believe this change will lead to more mixing of the two writing languages. Does the Council of State feel that it is a strengthening of the Norwegian profession that exams in book goals and innovatory are held on the same day, and is the Council of State concerned that students may be confused about language?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e2286	First, I would like to inform you that a new curriculum and a new degree form in Norwegian was already announced to the schools in September 2005. After the new scheme, young people will have their stand in both their main objective and their secondary objective. It is only for the examination that the students shall have a single character covering both dimensions. The decision is the result of Storting's Inns handling. S. No 268 for 2003-2004 for St.meld. No 30 for 2003-2004 Culture for learning. The proposal from the Ministry of Education and Research was that the examination in Norwegian for the basic school should be reduced from two days to one day, and that the students who were graduated in Norwegian should only be tested in their main goal. The Storting said so in the submission of a one-day exam, but added that the students would try out both the main goal and the side measure on this one day. Citation from setting: ‘This majority supports the Ministry’s proposal for a written Norwegian examination in primary school. This examination should reflect the elements of the subject so as to give a real picture of the skills of the students. Both the main objectives and the secondary objectives shall therefore be part of the written Norwegian examination. This majority share the Ministry's view that the primary objective of the training of students is the most comprehensive part of the Norwegian field. Therefore, the main objectives of the pupils must be the majority of the written Norwegian examination in primary school.’ The Directorate of Education has been given the task of implementing the new Norwegian examination scheme as decided in Stortinget, and I believe that the directorate has followed up the statements of Stortinget. I would also like to add that in the near future more information and support will be provided to students and teachers about new exams in Norwegian on the directorate’s website. There is no hiding from the fact that the department has received more views on the new exam form. I have therefore asked the Education Directorate to evaluate how the new system of testing both main objectives and side targets works, already after the upcoming exam in ours. When I consider later whether it is necessary to make changes to the examination form, the result of this evaluation will be very heavy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e2302	I would like to thank the Council of State for a very good and constructive response. Of course, I am aware of what the Storing has decided, but it is not always the decision of the Storing in practice that will lead to improvements for which the decisions apply. That is why I am very pleased that the Council of State will carry out a rapid evaluation. There have been many recordings, and one of the recordings has come in an open letter from the student board at Sunndal Youth School, where it says: ‘It’s hard to write two styles in one day. It is difficult to convert from primary to lateral and vice versa, and all of this results in a ‘lubricant’ written in a mixture of two different writing languages. [[...]] [[...]] The texts become poor and less coherent.’ The fact that the Council of State is now carrying out a rapid evaluation is a great advantage. Does this mean that the Council share my concern about linguistic interaction with a common day of exams?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e2312	One might always question the effect of Storting's decision, but one cannot question the government's follow-up. That is why I am following this decision here and conducting the examination as provided by Stortinget. So, as I've learned, both elephants, teachers and others have made contact with me when I've been to school and meeting, and have expressed concern that it would be difficult to implement. I have also listened to the concern that the two-language exam on the same day will be required for part of the students. As you can see, these are the particular concerns that are the basis for us to evaluate the new scheme already after the first implementation. So I'm concerned that we're going to make it easier to use a good language, and that we're going to have a good performance of the Norwegian exam. Therefore, there is extra emphasis on the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e2319	I am pleased that the Council of State's basic position is that the decision of the Storting should be followed up, and that there is no disagreement between the questioner and the responder. Another option in this context: if this evaluation is to show that there are some challenges and that one has to come back to implement changes in the subject, then the Progress Party has the solution to present to the Council of State, and it is of course that one makes the side target optional, as the Progress Party has suggested many times. Is there a mechanism that the Council of State will be able to assess if the evaluation fails?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e2326	No, it isn't. And that's because the government is busy that we're going to have clear ambitions about a high level of student knowledge both in the main goal and in the side goal. I don't believe the solution to the challenge when it comes to the examination scheme is to make less demands on that level of knowledge by having an optional semi-final exam. The government thinks we should have written exams on both target forms. Now we're going to do it in one day, and then we're going to evaluate the system after that and come back to how we can best ensure a good exam both in the main goal and in the cross-measure for the elephants in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-09.ana.ud1393e2331	Today's map is finished. - The meeting's been cancelled.
