ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01-lower.ana.ud772e35	The representative, Karin S. Woldseth, will put forward a draft representative law.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01-lower.ana.ud772e38	As previously promised by this pulpit, I would like to make a proposal on behalf of Arne Sortevik and myself on the amendment to Law No 18 May 1979. 18 on the limitation of claims, the limitation period, the limitation period in the case of orphanages.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01-lower.ana.ud772e43	The legislative proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01-lower.ana.ud772e56	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no change of line, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - This is deemed to have been adopted. The President has reason to believe that this debate is going faster than what is suggested here.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01-lower.ana.ud772e63	I'll try to contribute to it. What we're invited to do today is to decide that we're legislating the Editor's poster. The theme has been up in Stortinget several times and has in each case got quite wide connection here in the hall. The editor poster is a tool that has had great impact as a contract law instrument. It's a constant-daily expression for all of us who relate to the media debate. The work has been going on for a long time, and it is fine, I think, that all the hearing bodies have agreed to the law. It may seem strange that a law is being passed on to a poster as well incorporated as the Editor's poster, but it does not include any penalties in the law. But as a group committee says, this is considered a step 1 in a more comprehensive media responsibility law that we believe is needed in Media-Norway today. The Committee has granted the Ministry the right to extend the legislative proposal in relation to the medium to be covered by it. Now everyone who communicates news, topicality or social debate is covered, and that also means, for example, that. government publications. But there are two elements that have been debated about, and which I think are debates we are going to follow further as well. One goes on the electronic media, where the editor's poster may appear to be clear to some parts of it, but where, in particular, the area of online debate has led to both the writing of books - great debate - and also major political debate. The Committee has noted that there is a need for an evaluation of the law after a period of time to see whether it is functioning as intended. If I'm going to add some opinions from the Left on this issue of online debates, I would say that I think online debates are a very important part of electronic democracy that is developing. I think it's going to develop a culture of debate over time, as we see that debate cultures in public space are always developing, but if a culture of debate in public space is to develop, some moderators of different types are required - not necessarily just an editor who cuts, but also someone who points to a poor culture of debate. And then it's a challenge that there's a public debate where anonymity can be linked to participation, which makes this public debate different from any other debate. This is a challenge for both the way we think about the media and the way we think about freedom of expression. The second point on which there has been confusion or disagreement is the possibility of getting an open channel in the TV offer that opens up, for example: voluntary organisations are given the opportunity to make television programmes and reach a wide audience. There is a broad consensus, all minus the Progress Party, that the editorial responsibility here has to be placed on the individual producer, and that good solutions have to be found here to ensure that we do not deviate from the principle, but still are able to enable such an operator to act on the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01-lower.ana.ud772e80	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01-lower.ana.ud772e95	In Ot.prp. No 16 for 2007-2008, proposals are made for amendments to the law on housing law, the law on ownership and the law on disposal. The Committee strongly supports the Government's proposals. The Progress Party wants to investigate the possibility of removing the entire pre-emption system, and I expect the Progress Party to explain its position in a later article. A large majority of the Committee supports the Government's proposal to amend the law so that the municipalities can transfer a municipal owned share of the right of residence to the owner of the associated residence without pre-emption. Most of the hearing bodies also support this proposal. These changes will allow municipalities to make better use of municipal housing in a more flexible way. Maybe even more important is that people don't get pulled up with the root of a living environment they're already well established in. It is quite incomprehensible that the Progress Party does not see the good effects of this particular proposal. The majority of the Committee also supports the amendment to the law granting exemptions from the right of pre-emption for others who have or may be expected to have specific tasks in providing housing for disadvantaged persons. These are referred to in the first paragraph of Section 4-2 of the Law. The common denominator for all of these is that they have or have taken on responsibility for providing housing to different groups of disadvantaged people. I think, through today's decisions, we're taking some small steps in the right direction in housing policy that might make the housing situation a little easier for some, and that should be a unanimous ovulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01-lower.ana.ud772e106	I promise to be short. I refer to the Consulting Body of the Association of Real Estate Agents, which, in its hearing opinion, opposed the Government's proposal, and that the Norwegian Lawyers' Association believes that it should be possible to establish a housing company as a temporary intermediate stage between a limited liability company and a housing law. The Association of Lawyers believes that the tax conditions of transformation should be regulated through tax rules rather than blocking such tax advantages by tightening the law on housing. The Advance Party wishes to oppose the Government's proposal in respect of parts of III. It is unreasonable that only the State, county or municipality should be able to circumvent the right of pre-emption in housing laws and joint societies. On the contrary, we believe that the forfeiture of the right to purchase must also apply to other groups, and that it will have a number of advantages. We will show you, among other things: that such a change could lead to a freer and more dynamic housing market, where owners can freely sell to those to whom the owner wishes to sell. We also believe that the withdrawal of the right-to-purchase mechanism could lead to increased mobility in the Norwegian community, because it would be easier to buy apartments in those parts of the country where there is no long-term service in residential buildings. Then I want to bring up the proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01-lower.ana.ud772e115	The representative Ib Thomsen has taken up the suggestion he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01-lower.ana.ud772e125	Odelstinget then goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01-lower.ana.ud772e208	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01-lower.ana.ud772e218	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01-lower.ana.ud772e226	During the debate, Ib Thomsen, on behalf of the Progress Party, put forward a proposal. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to remove the right of pre-emption from the sale of dwellings and apartments. ‘... The proposal will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01-lower.ana.ud772e291	Here the Progress Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01-lower.ana.ud772e359	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01-lower.ana.ud772e369	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01-lower.ana.ud772e562	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
