ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e77	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today and tomorrow - and consider it adopted. The President will propose Anders Anundsen. - Other proposals are not available, and Anders Anundsen is considered unanimously elected president of today's and tomorrow's meetings. The representative, Olemic Thommess, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e84	On behalf of Martin Engeset, Sonja Irene Sjøli, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve and myself, I would like to propose an investigation into the situation of people who carry out care tasks for their own family members and receive care pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e89	The representative, Mr Harald T. Nesvik, will make two representations.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e92	On behalf of Siv Jensen, Vigdis Giltun, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen and myself, I am delighted to make proposals for a review of the Norwegian Patient Damage Compensation Scheme in order to improve patients' rights and conditions. On behalf of Robert Eriksson, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Vigdis Giltun and myself, I would like to propose an escalation plan in order to implement the adopted action plan for diabetes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e99	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e116	A large majority of the parties have long agreed on immigration policy. There is a broad consensus that Norway should accept and help the people in need of protection, both refugees who need asylum under the Refugee Convention and those who come under other international conventions and human rights. There is also a broad consensus on the protection of other strong human interests. Regulated immigration is important. But of course, the Right believes that measures to limit groundless immigration do not have to break international obligations. However, it is essential to establish a regulatory framework within the area of action we have. The right notes with regret that the government has gone so far in the wrong direction in several areas. Immigration policy is liberalised and signals have been sent to the outside world. According to figures and calculations from the Directorate of Foreign Affairs, twice as many have applied for asylum until now compared to the same period last year. Asylum inflows are now the strongest since 2003, and new forecasts show that at least 10,000 asylum seekers will arrive both this year and next year - the double of previous estimates. There may be more reasons. But it is a fact that our neighbouring country Sweden and Denmark have tightened up their asylum policy. Other European countries have done so in the past. But Norway seems to be going in the opposite direction, and it worries us in the right. We are concerned because we know what it means from work and resources to deal with such a large number of asylum seekers. When Erna Solberg became municipal minister in 2001, 18 000 people were awaiting treatment of their asylum application. UDI had major problems, but after much work and many political decisions by a broad majority in the Grand Duchy, it was cleared up in the asylum institute and the queues were gradually reduced to a level of 5,000 per year. A well-functioning multicultural society depends on the acceptance of the population, and good integration requires that immigration policy is satisfactory and works well, that it is transparent and manageable. Now I am afraid that the warning lights are starting to flash. The first reports of concern came in the New Year. In January, I asked the Council of State about the percentage of refusal and admission and about Norway's situation in relation to other countries in northern Europe. At that time, the Council of State's explanation was, among other things, Extension of the Schengen area in December 2007 as well as changes in the rules of the summer. The answer also confirmed that Norway has one of the highest rates of approval in Europe. In addition, the Council of State said that the proportion of children has not yet been significantly higher due to regulatory changes. However, we now know that the number of asylum applications from persons who reported to be single minors on arrival has more than doubled in 2008 compared to the same period in 2007. It is close to recalling previous discussions about both anchor children and age testing. To get a foothold in Norway, children can be sent here while their parents choose to wait for family reunification. In terms of both age testing and DNA testing, the Right will have stricter legislation, and we have suggested that. Child's best is superior, but we can't be naive. In March, I asked the Council of State why the return agreements with Iraq and Somalia had stopped. The explanation came, but nothing about why the Swedes get to what the Norwegian government is not doing. I hope the Council of State today can explain just that. The UDI is prepared for the high arrivals to continue for some time to come. There's no sign that this is a temporary situation. I think the Council of State also sees that, and it's with wonder I've been following the news of the last few days where SV and the Central Party go out against their own Council of State. Governments want to reduce asylum, but are strongly attended by their cooperation parties in the Government. Once again, we're going to see that internal disagreement leads to paralysis, and we've seen it before. The council wanted the age limit and connection requirements, SV would not, and then there was nothing. Now it seems that SV wants to have a clean fight about the maintenance requirement. It is striking that during the entire previous period, the Right Party and the Workers' Party were very often involved in immigration issues. Now the Workers' Party and the State Council are trying to tighten up, but they're being unfairly countered by SV and the Center Party. The Labour Party may appear to be losing control of the immigration field. That would be a pity, for Norway and the Norwegian community, for the best, is a broad consensus in this important field. The proposals presented by the Evening Post on 6 May could be supported by the Right, probably under some conditions. The proposal on SOS children's cities must be discussed with current partners and the High Commissioner for Refugees. The proposal seems to be poorly managed so far, but in my opinion it is interesting. On the right, the Government has chosen to pursue a more liberal policy in the foreign field. In several areas, the new Foreign Affairs Act will signal to the outside world that Norway can be a good country to choose from. This is why, among other things, we are dealing with the Foreign Affairs Act. chose to oppose the Government’s extended concept of refugee. Norway is known abroad to be the most attractive in the class to implement the EU Status Directive, but in this case the Right chose for its part to be pending. We believe that the extended concept of refugee provided by the Government will lead to an increase in the influx of persons to Norway seeking protection and an increase in the number of residents. For us, it is most important to ensure that those who apply for Norway and are allowed to stay are actually those who need protection. We must avoid sending out a picture of Norway that tells us that if only one gets here first and one lasts through the training of cases, dismissals or falsification of documents and appeals, one will finally be allowed to stay. We must not get there that we premium it to train. A policy that builds up under this is a policy that leads many people into a disaster. The government's three-year rule we believe is a contribution to this. In the right, we have therefore voted against both the changes to the regulations and the changes to the Foreign Affairs Act that a residence permit may be granted if the return has not been completed within three years of the case being brought up. The consequences for all those who wrongly believe it is so easy to stay in Norway, make it necessary for us to have a different policy. We have to be consistent and fair. In fact, although it may be difficult, we have to say no to people who we actually individually think we should agree to. The right is in favour of more stringent maintenance requirements than those imposed by the Government. I think it is positive that the government parties have come to the right in relation to the principle, but we believe that the amount should be more realistic. We also believe that there should have been an exception rule that in some cases made it possible to take account of the income potential of the person who comes to the country, not just of the one who is here from before. So we think it's important to get a system that deals more effectively with and settles the appeals. That is why we have proposed a so-called 'love selection'. Asylum seekers with rejection remain for too long in the country, walk in vacuum and can easily enter a negative spiral that leads to crime. The government should do much more to make negative decisions effective. Will the Council of State address this neglected field, which is also involved in giving an unfortunate picture of Norway? I attend the Council of State's response to my interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e150	The representative of Holmberg is right that Norway is now experiencing the strongest influx of asylum seekers since 2004. At the same time, it is important to stress that the forecasts of asylum influx are, and will be, uncertain. If they strike, about 10,500 asylum seekers will arrive in Norway in 2008, while the estimated figure was 5,500. We have also seen major changes in the past; for example, the arrival of asylum under the Bondevik I government increased from 2,300 in 1997 to 8,500 in 1998. It appears that the fluctuations are relatively higher in Norway than in most other Western countries. But also a number of other countries have had large fluctuations, for example, inflows to the Netherlands increased by 89pst. from February 2006 to February 2007. The number of persons who declare to be single minor asylum seekers increased from 349 in 2006 to 403 in 2007, while the proportion who declare to be single minors was 6.6 pst, respectively. in 2006 and 6.2 pst. in 2007. By 31 March this year, 211 had declared to be single minor asylum seekers, a share of 8,5 p.m. In 2006 and 2007, it was above 40 pst. of those who declared to be single minors, considered to be more than 18 years old at the time of adoption. In the last year, many Western countries have received more asylum seekers than in previous years. Overall, for Western countries, there is an increase of about 10 pst. Iraq has been the largest country of origin in the last two years, but represents a smaller proportion in Norway than in some other countries, such as Sweden. The next major groups are Chechens, Eritreans, Serbs and stateless - mainly Palestinians. There was an increase for all these groups from 2006 to 2007. The acceptance rate will vary slightly over time. Developments in 2008 show that the share of those rejected has increased from 39 pst. per 1 % 31 March 2007 to 55 pst. per 1 % 31 March 2008. Thus, increases in Norway are due to an increase in arrivals from many countries, and not as in the past to a dramatic increase in arrivals from a few countries, such as Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1993 and Kosovo in 1998-1999. The large influx in 2001 and 2002, of 14,780 and 17,480 asylum seekers respectively, was also distributed among many countries. Unlike today, large groups of asylum seekers from Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union came. These were groups that did not need protection, and a large proportion of them were refused their asylum application following a so-called rapid procedure. In recent years, arrivals are allocated to countries of origin where the share of concessions is high. Therefore, measures having an effect are not as obvious. It is difficult to say a certain thing about the reasons for the increased influx of asylum into Norway and some other European countries. One of the main causes is likely to be negative in many countries of origin, such as Iraq, Afghanistan, Palestine, Kosovo, Sri Lanka and Eritrea. The external perception of Norway’s policies in this area vis-à-vis other comparable countries, such as the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. Sweden and Denmark, probably also have great significance. This government has not made any significant changes in immigration policy in recent years. Some adjustments have been made in the liberalising direction, including: in the case of children. On the other hand, UDI practices for ethnic Chechens unrelated to the Russian Federation were amended in August 2007. In addition, practices in the UDI for Kosovo Serbs are now changing so that asylum applications can be assessed against both Kosovo and Serbia as countries of origin. These are restrictive measures. In Sweden, some restrictions have recently been made. Practice has changed for asylum seekers from Iraq, so that it now largely corresponds to the practice we have here in the country. Sweden also has an agreement on returns to Iraq, while Norway has for several years returned asylum seekers to Iraq without a similar agreement - to a limited extent. Although no significant changes have been made in Norwegian policy in recent years, however, changes in Sweden can contribute to the development of an external picture of a relatively more liberal Norwegian policy in the area now. The increased arrivals of asylum are challenging to deal with, both in terms of procedural capacity, the creation of new state reception facilities and housing and integration. These include: the need to establish 3000 new state asylum reception centres. The increased arrivals of asylum also mean that we need to review whether our practices towards particular groups differ from those in our neighbouring countries and other comparable countries. I will come back with a first statement on the reasons and possible measures in the revised national budget for 2008. At the same time, I would like to stress that asylum practices and the assessment of the need for protection are largely regulated by the Refugee Convention and other Conventions on Human Rights by Norway, for example. the European Convention on Human Rights. Of course, people who have a real need for protection must receive it. I would therefore like to conclude by saying that some measures have already been put in place which could have an impact on the flow of asylum. I would like to mention in particular the work of returning persons with final rejection of their asylum application or with illegal residence. Forced return to 109 countries was carried out in 2007. We return a larger proportion of those who are refused, than many other countries. We have sent a request to a number of countries for the conclusion of readmission agreements, and we are strengthening several Norwegian foreign stations with specialist staff working to verify ID information, prevent human trafficking and facilitate the implementation of returns.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e178	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is good that the Council of State looks closely in this area, and that he takes it seriously. I have the impression that the Council of State is doing that. I am addressing the revised national budget and what measures we can look at there, and we are going to have to take a political debate on those measures. It is disturbing to the Council of State that there is an increase in arrivals from many countries. I understand that it is difficult to say something unambiguous about the reasons, because there are a lot of factors involved here, and there are a number of cause contexts that you have to look at. Of course, the international conditions have a lot to say. War, hunger and natural disasters we can do little with. What I think is important in this matter, and what worries me about the fact that the Government has now moved in a more liberal direction, is that although there are no significant changes, there are many small changes. And we know that many cymbals make a big pot. We have something as simple as the jungle telegraph. And the fact that the outside world can get a picture of Norway as a good country to come to, where politics may be a little unpredictable and often changes, is not an image that is positive and which I want Norway to have out in the world. Right wants a strict, fair and consistent immigration policy. The Councils of State specifically mentioned the Netherlands - which also has an increase - and other European countries. I am aware that within the EU there is a common framework for asylum policy - an asylum pact. There is a broad consensus in the EU that there is a need for a political document setting the framework for immigration and asylum policy in an enlarged EU under the Treaty of Lisbon. Asylum, the legal immigration framework and Frontex are key elements. This is meant to be a political document, which all Member States see as a need. Outside Europe, countries recognise that different case-law in this area is a problem. One example is that it is not right that there would be a zero-percent chance for a Chechen to have asylum granted in Greece, while there is 50 pst. the likelihood that he would have asylum in France - a comparison that is most relevant to Norway. Immigration is not new in the European context, but it is clear that the situation has changed - not only in relation to world disasters, but also in relation to the enlargements of the EU, the Treaty of Lisbon and, of course, developments in the world. The Lisbon Treaty itself establishes a common policy that supports national immigration policies. And then I would like to ask the Council of State: what does the Council of State think this will mean for Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e195	Let me first say that I think that the representative Holmberg's analysis here is quite wise. There are, as I said, complex reasons for what we are now experiencing, and there is no doubt that the amount of conflicts outside the world has something to say about the influx of asylum. Otherwise, I think you are on the right track by saying that Norway has not made any significant changes in its immigration policy, but there have been some adjustments. Some of them are restrictive, and some are liberalisations, but they seem to be a form of liberalisation externally. When other large countries of asylum, such as Sweden, at the same time, makes some restrictions - not significant restrictions on Norwegian practice, but it is perceived externally as an intensification - leading to the sum of the kind of effects that more asylum seekers are seeking against Norway than before. What we are now assessing in the Department and in the Government is whether, through the revised national budget, we can come up with some measures that will provide some signals to correct the external perception of Norwegian asylum policy. The majority understands that we are now in the final assessment. The revised national budget will come to the week, and the debate will be fresh, I see - so the conclusion will come in the revised budget for the week. As I said, the purpose of this is to correct what I think is a somewhat wrong impression of the changes that have taken place in asylum policy both in Norway and in other countries. The last representative of Holmberg addresses is the question of the evolution we are now seeing in the EU, and the significance of this for Norway. The representative of Holmberg has given the government a chance to make a special big message to process this topic. I will not conclude from that message until we have implemented good processes, but there is no doubt that if Europe is moving towards a more common asylum policy, it will have a great impact on Norway - of course! I also believe that it is well on the way, and that it is unfortunate that different asylum policies are being pursued within Schengen, because it creates far greater problems than it creates opportunities for each country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e206	Part of those who make up the increased influx into Norway are people who need protection from war, torture and persecution. Others simply want a better life without poverty. Most of the Nordics are solidarity and want us to help those who need protection, and that these must have a good offer and an opportunity to build a future in our country. At the same time, Norway is a small country, and it is limited how many we can accept and help in a proper way. That is why we have to limit immigration. It has not been long since we reached broad agreement in this Chamber on the main lines of Norwegian asylum and refugee policy in the new Foreign Affairs Act. Just because this is about individuals and not least situations beyond our control, it is important to have a principle approach to this challenge. The fact that we are now experiencing an increased influx of asylum seekers into Norway should not be used as a passport to change the criteria on which basis we are to provide protection and asylum. Some in this room may want to use this situation to raise the issue of softening the rules, while others - and I feel sure of that at least - will go radically in the other direction, with a much more restrictive policy. I want to warn against both. Measures that we would like to put in place must be within the principles that we agreed on in the treatment of the law on foreigners; something else, I think, is too short-sighted. It is clearly a challenge in what we now experience: that there are so many more asylum seekers coming here than the forecasts were a few months ago. As the Council of State had in mind, there are many and complex reasons for this increased influx. Those who need protection, we have to accept in a good way, but there are some people here who don't need protection, and they have to get off. More rapid handling of cases is particularly important. Furthermore, measures should be put in place to ensure the faster implementation of decisions. So the measures that will have to be taken should not lead to the sending out of people who are entitled to protection. It's important to underline. But I am convinced that the influx will go down if we succeed better in the return of those who are being rejected. On the same day as the new law on discharge was adopted, the Stortinget Government asked to consider launching a process to highlight Norway’s challenges in terms of a comprehensive migration policy in the light of developments in Europe. The issues related to the whole of the migration field are of the major challenges of our time. In this work, we should seek long-term solutions, perhaps especially on asylum issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e219	It's very interesting to hear the Council of State today. It is a fairly humble state council, which goes a long way in complying with what the Progress Party has said for a very long time, but which one has not previously heard from the Labour Party, namely that Europe is a kind of asylum market. It is a market where happier people who, for economic reasons, want to come to Europe, seek the least resistance and try to get asylum on the wrong footing in the European countries, which pursues the most liberal asylum policy. As of today, Norway may be the country that does, at least it is perceived this way. In a situation where Denmark and Sweden are tightening up, it is quite right, as the interpellanten says, that Norway, unfortunately, is going in the opposite direction, in the liberalizing direction. It makes sense that, as a result, the influx of asylum to Norway is increasing. This is a consequence of the fact that there is a kind of competition within Europe to have the asylum policy that least attracts happiness. For people who need real protection, this is not a problem, because it will get them no matter which country they try to seek protection in in Europe. Thus, it is also wrong when the Council of State goes quite far in referring to international conventions, and that our freedom of action is not very great in this area. It is clear that it is fully possible for Norway to pursue a far, far more stringent asylum policy, without breaking the Refugee Convention or other international agreements Norway is obliged to do so. We can only see that by looking at the policies pursued in a number of other European countries. It is obvious to the Progress Party that reasonable rapid action is now needed to limit the short-term flow of asylum, and it was then interesting to read in the Evening Post and in the Newspaper last week about the leakages of measures that the Council of State has taken a high level of consideration within the Ministry. How early this was in the notebook are you going to see when you ask SOS children if they're familiar with these measures? So they confirm that no, we've never received such a request from the department, we've read it for the first time in the newspaper, and - underlined them at the same time - we're also opposed to such an action. It shows how early this was in the internal phase, but still it got out. Then it takes 24 hours, and then there are red-green politicians and shooting at their own state council. I have to say that I sympathise with the difficult task of State Council Bjarne Håkon Hanssen has when he clearly sees the need to tighten up Norwegian asylum policy, but experience that his own people, like the representative Rivamm, people from the Center Party, and not least their own youth organisation, the AUF, only spend a few hours at distance and shooting after these proposals. For the Advancement Party, it is obvious that we need great restraints, and it must be put in place fairly quickly. We are eagerly waiting for what is going on in the context of the revision, and hope that the Council of State will take more action. At least the Progress Party will support the measures that have been presented in the media in the last week, although we believe that we should go far further in tightening up Norwegian asylum policy. What is obvious is that action needs to be taken quickly. It is then sad to note that internal disagreement within the Red-Green Government seems to stop the necessary measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e230	The background to the topic on the right is that we see that the experience from previous years, when one has had a very high influx of asylum seekers, is that the rate of rejection is rising sharply, and very many people are living in asylum-seekers in Norway for a long time under conditions that are not an advantage either for them or for Norway. So the purpose of raising this issue now is to try to limit a trend that leads more people to spend a long trip to Norway, sells what they have from small funds in the country they come from, and puts themselves and their families in deep debt to try to stay in Norway. That people try it, it's often, probably in most cases, good reasons, but that doesn't mean they necessarily need protection. If Norway is to fulfil its international obligations to provide people who need our protection, stay, right relationships, good relations, and if we are to pursue a good integration policy and ensure a proper settlement in the municipalities, we are dependent on keeping the influx of those people who will not be allowed to stay in Norway anyway, down to a minimum. That's why it's desirable to keep the number down, but the acceptance rate high. There the previous minister who was responsible for this area, Erna Solberg, did a considerable job cleaning up in an area where this had slipped out. But we still see long-term effects of the high inflow in Norway earlier, because many people have remained in this system. One must prevent it from happening again. That is why, when we read in the newspapers, we are pleased that the Minister has concrete, good suggestions on the block to prevent such developments. These are proposals that in no way, in our opinion, violate the main lines of the new Foreign Affairs Act that were passed in Stortinget not so long ago. These measures should be easily implemented and will be supported by the Right in order to be implemented - although, of course, we have several measures beyond them. It would therefore be interesting to hear the representatives of the government parties of the Central Party and SV in the further debate confirm that they have the same reality as the Council of State expressed in its statement, where the Council of State in many ways shared the assessment of the inter-pellant regarding the description of the situation and the need for action. The Council of State also clearly stated that he would come back with measures in the revised national budget, which corrected the impression that Norway was now leading a more liberal asylum policy and which has led to an increased influx. It will then be important to hear today that the Centre Party and the SV share such a description, and that they are also willing to join the Government in bringing the necessary measures that need to be put in place - and they need to be put in place now. We already see that the municipalities are struggling very hard to settle the people who are to be settled and who are now in line to settle. We see that the UDI is now struggling to increase the capacity to extend asylum receptions again after they have been through a demanding round of shutting down asylum recipients. It is clear that such an up and down policy in this area is not a good thing for the country, nor is it a good thing for the municipalities affected by this. It is demanding for local communities with the establishment of asylum recipients and, in particular, it sees a high level of commitment in the context of the closure of asylum recipients. So one such up and down policy serves no one. At least it does not serve those people who need our protection and our help.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e245	There is a clear difference between how we look at the world, the conditions, the challenges and the solutions, and not least what we care about, and how. While the Right places emphasis on a strict and fair asylum policy, SV believes that we should have a humane and fair policy. In that there's a big difference. It is raging many wars and conflicts in the world. Iraq, Chechnya, Afghanistan and Somalia are clear examples. Changing climate conditions mean that in countries like Burma and Bangladesh, people lose homes, livelihoods, and lives. In Palestine, people live in an open prison under a cruel occupation and start to lack oxygen, to put it that way. All of this causes suffering and persecuted people to seek protection, food and security. This makes people desperate and seek their way away from war, violence, insecurity and hunger. The best thing we can do is to help prevent and resolve the conflicts in the world, take climate challenges seriously and prevent them, and improve the allocation of resources in the world, so that more poor people are fed on the table, health care and education. But there are some acute challenges. We in SV believe that the increased number of applicants face important challenges here at home. Measures are therefore needed to deal with the increase we are now seeing in the number of asylum seekers. A fundamental prerequisite is that the measures taken must, in our view, be based on the following policy bases, which are also set out in the Soria Moria Declaration: ‘The Government will pursue a humane, solidarity and legal security policy on refugees and asylum. Norway has a clear moral obligation to take responsibility for people in need of protection. The Government will base its refugee and asylum policy on international legal principles expressed through the Human Rights and the Refugee Convention.» When the representative Holmberg now asks for new measures on the basis of a press release showing increased figures in the first quarter, I ask myself: What kind of measures are actually being requested? In today's world, there are 40 million people on the run. And as I was about, people leave their homes because of violent conflicts, hunger and distress. We would like Norway to contribute more to reducing the number of refugees in the world. Unfortunately, Norway’s policy is not the only one that affects this. In the world, therefore, Norway’s efforts are low, but they are incredibly important for those refugees who have the opportunity to come here. At the same time, we must not forget that Norway's acceptance of asylum matters is low, compared to other countries in Europe. This perspective must, in my opinion, also be part of the debate on action on the new figures. In our opinion, a fair asylum policy requires clear rules and international cooperation. An effective procedure based on adequate legal certainty guarantees is important. This must be the basis for considering any new measures in the field of asylum policy. Finally, let me say that those who do not have a basis for asylum in Norway will be rejected quickly - and that is how it is done today. Claims are made as if everyone who comes to Norway is automatically granted asylum. If so, we would have had a completely different situation in Norway. We had not heard all the complaints in the media that we hear today. So I want to reject that statement. There are a few things I would like to bring up here now, but I see that time does not go on. I may come back to it later.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e267	An overall objective of refugee policy is to provide protection for those who need it, regardless of the number. If anyone in this room can say how many people there are who need protection, I think they'll be guilty. It must not be the number that governs us, but the purpose and aim of our asylum policy. It shall be human; it shall be consistent; it shall be fair. In fact, those who need protection are the ones who need to stay. We must see individuals, not groups. All people have the right to be met with respect and individual treatment. It is the basis of our policy. However, it is challenging when the influx of asylum seekers to Norway increases, and the temptation to use the opportunity to stigmatise whole groups of people or religious groups is obviously great for some. It is sad to hear how disparaging representatives from the Progress Party speak of the people who come to Norway. We should not close our eyes to the new situation and the challenges it brings. It is important that we examine the causes of the increased inflow, and that measures are being taken to counteract it based on what we know about the causes, and not just because we are eager to take action. We want measures against the unjustified influx of asylum seekers. It is very good that the Council of State has said that there is a presentation of this in the revised national budget. That discussion is important to take, because it obliges us even more as inflow increases. Since the applications are being examined, we must try to see whether these are groundless asylum seekers or whether there are people in need of protection. The order of magnitude of the two groups, the groundless and those who really have a need, will give us a clue as to what measures we need to take. As the Council of State said, there is now a higher number than before that that gets rejected - 55 pst. until April of this year against 39 pst. from New Year to April last year. Thus, it appears that the trend can be against more asylum seekers finding their way to the Norwegian border without the need for protection. We have to take that seriously. There is no simple explanation for the increased flow of asylum seekers to Norway now. NOAS has pointed out that the fact that Sweden is tightening up and has got a return agreement with Iraq can send signals to smugglers in Iraq. In this context, it is interesting to see what Norway is doing in terms of a return agreement with Iraq. Human traffickers often decide where asylum seekers should go. According to Kripos, 80-90 pst. by all asylum seekers by means of a network of smugglers. The secretary-general of the NOAS, Morten Tjessem, says that the main factors that make them flow to our country are the conflict situation in the country from which they flee and the reputation of the country of destination. And it must be clear to us that Norway has a reputation for being a country that respects human rights, with a good economy and good welfare arrangements. It's important that we get an increase in inflow. We are of the United Nations rated to be one of the world's best countries to live in. It becomes too easy to say that the cause of the increased influx is a liberal immigration policy. We have a good reputation, it's good to live here. That's an equally important reason. Persons who are not granted an asylum or a residence permit on a humanitarian basis in Norway are obliged to leave Norway within a given period. Those who do not return voluntarily before the expiry of the withdrawal period shall be picked up and sent out by the police. This effort to streamline the return of persons without a legal stay is important. In particular, it is desirable that they return to their country of origin on a voluntary basis. A voluntary return programme has been launched for Northern Iraq. It's very positive. They shall be able to return with dignity and opportunity to restart their country of origin. At the same time, we must see the reality in our eyes. Ideally, we wish that everyone who was finally rejected would leave the country. But there are people who choose to go underground and become paperless immigrants. The reasons are individual. Perhaps they are not ready to accept that their attempts at immigration have failed. They have invested a lot, both socially and economically, in their efforts to get a new country. They wanted to succeed, but they have failed. We must take seriously that it is not as simple as saying return, return, return to this human group. We need to take it seriously and take action too.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e284	I would like to add some comments to the debate that I have had the pleasure of sitting and listening to. I want to start with the Per-Willy Amundsen of the Progress Party, which I think has a very easy approach, because he refers to everyone who comes here as 'happy hunters'. Having that approach I think stigmatizes violently, because most people who try to get here come from deep distress and try to get in a better situation. These aren't happinesses, they're people who are looking for a better future, and there's nothing wrong with it. But we don't want to have a policy that will allow anyone in need to stay in Norway. There are many who choose to travel and put life, health and economics at risk of coming here, and on the day they come here, they see that they have misunderstood the functioning of Norwegian asylum and immigration policies, and they are returned. The danger is that they are in debt, and that part of them has also sacrificed life and health on the way to getting to the West, believing in a better life. They're not happier, they're people trying to get out of trouble. However, we cannot have an immigration policy in Norway that allows all those with a worse economic situation than what we have to stay, and therefore they must return. It's a problem if before you get here, you get into a big economic and human dilemma. The group that has the worst is the ones that are being sent as parcels all over the world. This happens if you have a policy that stimulates lonely minor asylum seekers, or children, to be sent around the world in the belief in a better future here. Too many, often called anchor children, I think it's a big accident to be used in such a game, for example. sent from Sri Lanka to Norway. We don't have to run a policy that makes us get an unnecessary influx, because it's not good for the people who are part of that system. It has also been argued in the debate that the Central Party has expressed itself critically about a proposal that is not public. That's not right. We have not made a critical statement about a proposal that is not public. Here's a discussion, and we're completely in line with the Council of State and the Council of State in his response to the interpellation. So that discussion we can just put away completely. We haven't been an actor in that social debate. So it's a fact that there's an increasing inflow, and that's a challenge. We need to find the solution to the narrowing of the refugee and asylum policy that a broad Storting agreed on when we adopted a new foreign law. I feel confident that the measures and adjustments that the Government will notify are good within that framework, and that we will be able to stand upright after that. But the increasing inflow is also a challenge in terms of housing, and there we have to look at measures to manage to get the fastest possible settlement, so that people do not stay for too long in reception, or for too long in a vacuum when they have been accommodated. We also have to look at how the processing capacity can get better all the time, and how to return people as fast as possible, because the worst thing you can do to both us as a community and to people is that they're walking in a vacuum over a long time, like a piece of a system. Here I think political Norway is quite united. In conclusion, I just want to make that comment that I think there is a broad majority in the Storting that will be able to gather on the possible adjustments that are needed, and that does not encourage people who do not have the opportunity to stay, to come here, because that is the worst thing for them. It is also expensive and difficult for our society, and it does not promote integration. There is only one party that is in one way on the side, and that wants completely different measures, and that is the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e302	Removing the influx of asylum seekers and refugees is really quite simple: it's a world where we don't have hunger and distress. It's a world we don't have war. It's a world that we don't have environmental disasters. If we had had a perfect aid policy, a perfect environmental policy, an active Norway in peace work, where there had never been any support for war, we would not have had this challenge either. I'm not going to use the opportunity to point out who is cutting in aid, who is opposed to Norway doing peace work, who was in favour of the war in Iraq, and who is against environmental efforts, because you get hurt when you point out that inconsistency. What amazes me is the shift in tone that has come in this hall from discussing the Foreign Affairs Act. The right seems almost to be on a slightly different plane when they talk about how big a problem this leads to in terms of work and resources, while I can't remember that there were any suggestions for major contractions from the Right when we discussed this just a short time ago. The left is also in order to have a fair, preferably strict but humane immigration and refugee policy. I'm also because you have special measures. We supported Erna Solberg's actions when we saw that there were very many unwarranted applicants from the old Soviet republics. Applicants did not have grounds for asylum, and we tried to get as quick and straightforward a procedure for each one as possible. There were actions supported by the Left. That's actually pretty interesting internationally what was done then. Because if you look around the world, for example. on the border between Mexico and the United States and the border between Spain and Africa, you can see the pressure exerted on the border crossings. In fact, Norway was able - by comparison - to establish a cooperation where at least a few years ago, perhaps the largest living gap between Norway and Russia was. At the limit of the world's greatest conflict of living, it was actually possible to establish a system of trade cooperation, development and trying to help each other out, which perhaps many other countries should have learned a little from. I will not in any way support an opinion in which one accuses this government of having taken many steps to get a more lewd, more humane or more fair refugee policy, especially in the case of women and children. I do not understand why SV has a low profile in this area. It's not about a wave of children. It's about approx. three school classes of all the world's children, who have come extra. That, I think, is a challenge we should actually face. What's the big challenge, and where I really support the concerns of the Council of State, is how we're going to manage to keep the speed of treatment, be fair and ready to take the flow away when the international situation is such that more and more people are running away, and more and more people are experiencing that they don't have opportunities. The war in Iraq has led to enormous pressure on the Nordic countries. When you claim that Norway has taken the big noise, you haven't seen what Sweden really has done. Sweden has made a great effort to avoid the influx of refugees from Iraq. I have to say, when you see it, you're very proud to have belonged to the government that actually said no to that war. I think those who said yes to that invasion should be ashamed when you see what it leads to out of need for people. The left would like to make an effort to ensure that we keep the rate of treatment, that we make sure that we are able to have a fair treatment, and that our whole system is able to meet the severe and difficult situation in which the world has come. We are also open to discuss several international agreements as long as there is a humane and fair refugee policy that is agreed to have international rules for.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e321	I think the debate today has been constructive in general. To me, it seems like we have a great deal of common understanding of the big traits and the big lines. So it's nuances, and I have to be allowed to comment on some of them. I believe that SV is something far away from reality, that they do not address the problems that we actually have in some areas of immigration. I'm sorry about that. It kind of becomes an idealized world. Then you make a number that you have to have a humane immigration policy. Yes, of course, we agree with Akhtar Chaudhry that we should have a humane immigration policy. We're dealing with all the international conventions and human rights. It is equally important that Norway pursue a consistent and regulated immigration policy. It's only when it's consistent that it's going to be fair. Then I think that the Left must have forgotten something from the debate on the Foreign Affairs Act, namely that the Right promoted a number of proposals, and accepted some proposals in the liberal direction. So I wonder a little bit that the tone today is different than it was during the odelsting debate. It's a stranger to me. Like SV, I'm also worried that tens of millions of people are fleeing this world. But it is now that Norway cannot help everyone, and that is precisely why it is necessary to have a consistent and manageable policy. It will again be positive for our society, for the process of integration and for our multicultural society, which we have, and which we are still going to have. In fact, it is incredibly important that we handle the whole immigration field. With regard to the Christian People's Party, they say that a good reputation is important, and it is good that other countries know that Norway is a good country to live in. I do not disagree with that, but we cannot give a picture of Norway outwards as an attractive asylum country, because it will give false hopes to many people. Many people take all they have of assets and also use criminal networks to get to Norway, because they think it's easier to get asylum here than it really is. That's when we have problems dealing with it. I think that the Progress Party is provocative in its description of the happy and asylum market. The world is not that simple. The world is incredibly difficult. Too many countries are poor and need assistance from the rich part of the world. I agree with the descriptions provided by SV in this area. - Now my speaking time is out. The last thing I want to say is that Norwegian policy must largely also embrace the opportunities for development that we can give the world to the rest of the world, so that we can solve the problems in the poor part of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e340	I would also like to start by thanking you for the debate and thanking you for many - if not all - constructive contributions. I take with me many of the assessments that have come from the pulpit, in the final work we are now doing in the Government related to the revised national budget. I just want to give a final consideration, and it's about me and the government being very concerned that Norway is going to take its international responsibility for the fact that there are millions out there who are on the run, who are being persecuted, and who are fleeing at risk of their own lives and being subjected to torture and unworthy treatment. What I think is really bad about a situation that can happen if we get many people who are applying for asylum in Norway on the wrong basis, i.e. not the need for protection, is that we quickly get into the situation that we spend a lot of resources dealing with it in a humane and proper way. I now come with revised national budget in my area this week. Only to set up 3,000 new state asylum reception centres and 25 new state asylum receptions - that is clear it will cost money. Our entire apparatus will be very tied up with processing applications, having people in receptions, increasing residence for those who are granted asylum, etc. The worst thing about it is not that we have to spend that money on these people, but that it limits our ability to accept refugees. We use so much resources to deal with the large asylum flow that our ability to increase rapidly, for example. the amount of quota refugees, i.e. increasing the amount we take of those who sit in the camps under desperate conditions of life and who are recognised refugees by the UN High Commissioner, is indeed weakened when so many resources need to be used to deal with more cases where the basis is not the need for protection. I think that is the greatest paradox in a development that could possibly come out of control in this area, and that makes all my and Norway's humanistic tradition tell me that there are many honest motives for saying that the asylum flow to Norway needs to be handled in a sensible way. That's what the government is aiming for.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e349	The debate on substance is closed. So 1 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e363	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e372	The proposal of the Progress Party on an Energy Policy Action Plan is far from new. That is also the reason why an overall committee refers to its respective comments in the context of the examination of Document No. 8:29 for 2006-2007. While government parties point to the fact that the main features of the Government's Energy Policy Action Plan are reflected in the Soria Moria Declaration, and that the Government has implemented a number of measures to increase power generation and reduce consumption growth, an overall opposition is still awaiting concrete action. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left are totally incomprehensible in the view that the Government does not want to produce any form of overall document for energy policy, such as an energy policy action plan, a key communication on energy policy, etc. Unfortunately, this illustrates the challenge in Norwegian energy policy, where the sector is dealt with piecewise and in part, and how many contradictions and a lot of short-termity are evident from the results. The Soria Moria statement has proved to be far from enough. The commitment to renewable energy lacks coherence between the level of political ambition, the framework conditions and, in particular, the industry support system. The NVE’s procedural capacity is also shockingly poor. That's what state councils know about, but nothing happens anyway. The result is that the wind power project is on ice, while the small power industry is frustrated by ambiguous signals and increased taxes. Unfortunately, too many examples illustrate that there should have been a big message or action plan to get a comprehensive perspective, so that the political debate can have a common framework around factual assessments, etc. All that happens is that the opposition can find that there is once again internal controversy in the Government about important issues, preventing Norway from taking the necessary steps further. This time it concerns the energy sector. I ask the Government to put aside the internal scandal, and I am promoting the proposal of an overall opposition, i.e. the Committee's minority proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e387	The representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e390	This proposal has become a repetition in the Chamber. That's the third time it's promoted, and I feel a little unnecessary to spend a lot of time on this debate. I expect that we will have another chance when the proposal is re-launched next year. But for the third time, we can conclude that the Government has an energy policy action plan. It's described in the Soria Moria statement, and now it's more important to get action than even more plans. We clearly have challenges in Norwegian energy supply with a demand that is high in relation to production. We all agree that we need both increased energy production and, not least, energy efficiency improvement. We have a great potential for energy saving, an area that often gets a little behind when we discuss power balance and the energy situation in Norway, although everyone understands that saving 1 TWh is far more effective than producing a new one when we have scarcity. The real challenge here is that the energy policy measures we are taking in the years to come must be done without helping to reinforce the climate crisis we are facing. This means, among other things: Renewable energy investment, and I am very pleased that Enova’s framework has almost doubled from 2007 to 2008. The objective is 30 TWh renewable energy production and energy efficiency improvement by 2016. Then, after the agreement reached in the climate agreement, we have re-established contact with the Swedes on green certificates, and until they are in place, it is important that we have arrangements that are so good that we actually get to build something. That's what's important. The government has implemented a number of measures to increase power generation and reduce the growth of consumption. During 2006 and 2007, there has been a significant increase in production capacity, which is not to be expected when you hear part of the debate. Capacity in Norwegian electricity production is also expected to increase further in 2008, including: as a result of the expansion of water and wind power. A central point of the climate agreement is research and development. In the longer term, many exciting opportunities lie ahead for the energy country of Norway, for example. in relation to sea power. Many are concerned with wind turbines, but also with solar cells, the development of bioenergy and other more or less immature technologies, there is a great potential. It's too early to say what will be the answer to what instrument unites our need for energy with the zero-emission vision. In the Workers' Party, we are pleased that considerable sums will be spent on researching climate technologies and on new energy solutions in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e407	The proposal to draw up an energy policy action plan has been promoted in order to provide the best possible basis for developing Norwegian energy policy in a more holistic and more forward-looking way, which the proposers believe is in the best interests of both the environment, security of supply and social security. One underlying reason for promoting this document is that Norway has not had a well-functioning force policy since the 1960s, 1970s, 1980s. The fact is that since the early 1990s and until today, the Norwegian power policy has slumbered in some kind of thorny sleep. For too long, the need to expand new Norwegian power generation has been ignored as consumption increased. In the last 10-15 years, the consumption of electrical energy has increased so strongly here to countries that we have become dependent on a large net import of coal and nuclear power from our neighbouring countries. The Progress Party believes that we need to take a more active hold of the deterioration in the power balance that has arisen, and as soon as we are advised, processes and plans to re-strengthen the power balance, become less dependent on imports and increase the country’s security of supply to a level of reassurance. This is precisely what the action plan we are now proposing will contribute to. To put it mildly, the party of progress is both amazed and disappointed that the government parties and the government will not realize this time that there is a need to develop an energy policy action plan, preferably in the form of a growth message. The Group of the European People's Party notes that the red-green government is following the passive line of force policy which has been underpinning this in Norway since the beginning of the 1990s. We also note that everything that the Government has talked about is that they are supposed to provide a force-political boost, unfortunately only appear to be empty words and blows in the air. The result of about 15 years’ absence of active Norwegian power policy is that the energy nation of Norway has been in the absurd supply situation that in the very majority of years it has become dependent on imports of coal and nuclear power to cover domestic electricity consumption. The fact that Norway, as the world’s sixth largest producer of hydropower and one of the world’s largest exporters of both oil and gas, has become dependent on electrical energy is, in effect, a failure statement for Norwegian energy policy. How has a European power of energy like Norway been able to end up in a situation where we are self-sufficient in electricity only this year at extremely high rainfall? We know the answer. The reasons are further underlined here today when we see that both the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are completely uninterested in developing an energy policy action plan. Today we live in a high-tech society where even small disruptions in energy supply can have dramatic consequences for many vital areas of society. It is such that a power crisis in Norway is actually just a dry year away. For these reasons, we need an overall planning document that discusses the challenges of expected power consumption in the next few years. We also need a more detailed discussion of how we can make better use of our remaining hydropower potential. We also need to discuss in more detail how we can facilitate the deployment of a variety of energy technologies, so that we can create a more robust energy supply system that is less hydro-dependent. We also need a plan to discuss the level of research and development efforts and the use of new alternative energy sources in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e422	Norway is a rich energy country. We have natural assumptions. We have a lot of hydropower. We have oil and gas, according to the wind maps in Europe, we have the best wind resources, and we also have many other forms of energy in new renewable energy that should make us the exporter of clean energy. The world needs someone who sets itself the goal of exporting clean energy. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change provides us with the years up to 2015 to reduce greenhouse gases in the atmosphere if we are to achieve the target of 2 degrees increase compared to pre-industrial time. The natural assumptions should put us in the driver’s seat. We also have money we can spend on technology development. We have a lot of good technological environments around the country, and we're so lucky that, in addition to the technological environments, we have a lot of smart stuff. They must also be used in the challenge we face. Faced with the climate problem, we have to succeed, and we have to see completely. That is why the Christian People's Party believes that we should have a comprehensive political action plan for the energy field. It is sad that the Government does not see this necessity, when we have it for the state of the kingdom's environment and for oil policy. That we as a great energy nation should not have it within energy, amazes me. In its letter to the Committee, the Council of State states that the main features of the Government's action plan are contained in the Soria Moria Declaration. The Soria Moria statement is probably a good and good statement to rule out, but it's something else to have a public document that's been investigated, that's been at the hearing, and that the whole Storting is behind in what energy production and direction we're going to have. It was also said by the representative Marianne Marthinsen that we already have an energy policy action plan - and she refers to the Soria Moria declaration. I'm not going to go into the processes of the Soria Moria Declaration and how it was made, but I think it might be very bold to compare the Soria Moria Declaration with an action plan made in the Department and with the structure we have there. Unfortunately, at present in Norway, we have the worst support system for new renewable energy. What we should have approved on 1 January, it is not yet approved, and we are five months in overtime. What those who want to expand new renewable energy in Norway would meet is the red runner -- and not the nail mat, which unfortunately is what they meet. This applies to documentation requirements. It is a non-energy-emitting support system. It is important to be allowed to connect to the web when they first want to produce. This concerns the concession treatment in NVE. It also applies to the appeal time in the Ministry of Oil and Energy. I think that both the position and the opposition agree that we have challenges in all of these areas. It must then be possible to get to some arenas where we can discuss this and come up with comprehensive solutions. Energy is important to us as individuals. Energy is important for Norway with the natural resources we have. Energy is also important in a world society and in a sustainable society. That is why I hope that at some point in this period we will be able to move one step further, perhaps with the play from the Government, that they will take the initiative for an action plan in this area, because when it comes from the opposition, at least we have not succeeded so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e443	In this, we are asked by the proposers to support the development of an energy policy action plan which covers all foreseeable uses and production of energy, as well as the availability of different energy technologies and the wholehearted commitment to the development of new energy sources. It is not the first time in this period that the Progress Party is asking for holistic action plans. The idea is certainly good, but for the Central Party, the action is the first to be counted. This is particularly central to energy policy. New generation of wind power is e.g. more important than holistic national plans for wind power generation, and more small-scale hydropower production is more important than national plans for small-scale power plants. The Soria Moria Declaration is the starting point of the Government's energy policy objectives. Government alerts in the Government Declarations oversee energy thinking through evaluation of energy laws, e.g. The government is doing well to meet the objectives of the government statement, and there has been a marked increase in Norwegian electricity production in the first few years of this government. It's expected that production will increase further in the year we're in. Governments and Governments have shown a commendable commitment to promoting the production of new renewable energy, and the Government, for example, has doubled its support to Enova for energy efficiency improvement and renewable energy production. One has, among other things: start conversations with Sweden about the creation of a common green certificate market as a target. The centre party is going to work actively to keep up the pressure to increase the production of new renewable energy to ensure that Norway has enough energy and clean energy, but also because we believe it is important that Norway should be a major exporter of environmentally friendly energy to Europe in the future. Climate challenges are increasingly demanding to replace fossil energy with renewable energy. The centre party believes that less hydropower expansion, on- and offshore stateing and a great commitment to bioenergy are important instruments in future energy policy. A good network of lines is crucial to ensure the supply of energy to all parts of the country and to ensure the delivery of new energy production. We now need to focus our efforts on research and development and stimulate new production rather than use energy on different energy-related plans. There's a commendable exposure to the opposition to put in place the production of new renewable energy, and it has to be interpreted as one here wants to give the Government support in the important work one is doing in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e458	The Left supports the proposal of the Progress Party for an Energy Policy Action Plan. But I want to reflect a little bit about the reason and the situation description that the Progress Party gives, because I don't think it's a correct description. Torbjørn Andersen says that most years depend on imported coal power in Norway. The situation is that this varies greatly from year to year, and that a number of years have a large export surplus. One may ask questions about the relevance of the term ‘normal year’, which is often used as a fasitium, to describe the situation. But even though the picture is more nuanced than that described by Torbjørn Andersen, it is true that there is a great potential for both production and energy efficiency improvement, which has not been put into use in a good enough way. So ask Torbjørn Andersen, why is that? I think there's essentially two reasons for that. Firstly, political authorities have not been offensive enough either in terms of renewable energy production or in terms of exploiting the savings potential. The second is the obvious fact that we in Norway have been in the lucky situation that we have had a long time low price of energy resources, which has meant that it has not been profitable enough neither to save nor to create new production. I think it is necessary to have such a picture of reality in front of you in order to produce the action plan or measures that are needed. The left has therefore said that we want an energy policy action plan. One of the reasons is that it will give the Government the opportunity to clear up internal disagreements and present its whole policy in this area. It's necessary, because it's an area that is too much characterized by things being done piece by piece and division. And it would have been a good opportunity to promote measures both in the short term and in the long term and get it anchored through a treatment in Stortinget. I am amazed that the government parties justify that one does not need an energy policy action plan, that one has the Soria Moria declaration. I respectfully believe that reporting is an insufficient document on the challenges we face. One of the challenges we're facing is to reconcile what we're saying we're going to do, and what we're actually doing, in terms of renewable energy production. I hear that Erling Sande is excited that someone has now resumed negotiations with Sweden on a green certificate. Yes, but the sad thing is that it's been years since the government scraped that solution. But they agreed to it again in connection with the climate negotiations in Stortinget. I also think it is important to have a comprehensive plan for marine energy production. There, the Storting said no to the Left's proposal to create such a national strategy. Therefore, it is positive that this has once again been addressed in the context of climate negotiations. I also have a very strong need to emphasise the great potential associated with energy efficiency and the work. The new kilowatt hours we're saving are not just the easiest to get, they're also the ones that obviously have the least negative environmental impact. Norway is in a favourable position that if we combine those trends internationally that make pure energy production more competitive, with the great potential we have, we can become a major exporter of pure energy. But there will also be major fluctuations in how much is exported and imported in a nation that has so much of its production related to hydropower - where it naturally varies from year to year how much one can deliver.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e481	The government presented the main features of its energy policy in the Soria Moria Declaration. This master plan forms the basis for the Government's work during this majority period. As stated in the Declaration, the objective is to facilitate secure and efficient energy supply at acceptable prices to households and industry. Secure access to energy is important for most people in everyday life, for the creation of value and for jobs. The government has therefore given high priority to reducing the vulnerability of Norwegian power supply. The government will facilitate increased power generation by actively investing in environmentally friendly forms of energy. Firstly, it involves exploiting the potential of upgrading existing hydropower plants. Furthermore, the Government will stimulate the expansion of small, mini and micro power plants. The focus on energy efficiency, heat and electricity from renewable energy sources are key elements of the Government's policy on the development of an environmentally friendly energy supply. Enova's framework this year is about SEK 1450,000,000 - a doubling of the framework compared to 2007. The increased economic framework provides a basis for enhanced investment in all areas of renewable energy. The government has an ambitious target, as mentioned here, of 30 TWh new renewable energy production and an energy efficiency improvement by 2016. To achieve this objective, good mechanisms to stimulate the production of renewable energy must be in place. The government has therefore started new calls with Sweden on green certificates. This is also a central point of the agreement between the government parties and the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left on the Climate Communication. In order to speed up wind power generation while we wait on the certification market, we have announced a new round of investment aid for wind power through Enova. There are also major improvements to the transmission system. Among other things, the NorNed cable between Norway and the Netherlands has opened. The government is engaged in having a central network of sufficient capacity throughout the country. The development and development of the transmission system in a socially rational manner is an objective of both domestic and Nordic countries. Statnett SF is running several major projects, and has outlined a portfolio of investments for the next ten years of around NOK 16 billion. A focus on research and new technologies is important to build up in the long term the development of an environmentally friendly energy supply. The government will strengthen the research and development of renewable and efficient energy technologies and CO2 management technologies by 70 million. kr in the current year and by 300 million. kr in 2009, as defined in the climate agreement. And in addition, we're going to cancel out 150 million. kr to a demonstration programme for the development of marine wind turbines and other immature energy technologies. This will be done within the framework of Energy21, the new R & D strategy for the energy sector, which we are now establishing. I received a proposal for a strategy from the Energy Strategy Group on February 21, and we are now establishing a governance for the strategy. The Management Board shall be composed of representatives of energy companies, industry, R & D environments and the authorities. The Management Board shall contribute to the organisation and implementation of the Energy21 strategy in accordance with its objectives. I have great expectations for this work and am very pleased that the entire sector has managed to gather on the strategic objectives set out in the plan. The government is undertaking a comprehensive effort to develop and realise CO2 management. The capture and storage of CO2 is a very important measure to address the major climate challenges we face, while at the same time strengthening energy supply is needed. More than DKK 1 billion have been allocated to this work in the 2008 state budget. It is assumed that the investment decisions for the CO2 capture installations of Kårstø and Mongstad respectively are taken in autumn 2009 and 2012. In parallel, we are investigating transport and storage solutions for CO2. As a follow-up to the Soria Moria Declaration, the Ministry of Oil and Energy started work on the evaluation of the Energy Act in the winter of 2006-2007 and identified several key energy policy issues. There has since been a process of seminars and hearings in this area, and we are working on proposals for the Storting during this period. The government will follow the policy for a safe and environmentally friendly energy supply with further measures and will return to the Storting in the usual way related to the issues in question. In addition, I aim to present a big message at the turn of the year where I will address various key energy policy issues. I would therefore believe that some of the case-rapporteur's - let me say - ritual criticism falls away, and the party of progress should be somewhat less 'chokka' and disappointed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e524	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e528	I listened with interest to the statements of the Council of State. But however you turn this around, it's a reality that in six or seven of the last eleven years we've been dependent on importing electricity, Danish coal power or Swedish nuclear power, to cover the domestic final consumption in Norway. This is a reality - and also a hint at what Mr Kvassheim said in the Chair. It has been a goal for Norwegian energy policy that we should be self-sufficient in a so-called normal year of rainfall. I want to get into it a little bit, because being self-sufficient in a situation where we may get low rainfall is important from a lot of social security perspectives. I would like to ask the Council of State: is it a goal for this government that Norway should be able simply to be self-sufficient in electrical energy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e535	I think the Progress Party is a little bit small, I, when all they want, is that we're going to be seabed with renewable energy. My clear goal is for Norway to become a significant exporter of renewable energy, because we have a formidable starting point to be, at a time when people on the continent are living busy using more clean and renewable energy. We don't get there overnight, but we have to start work now with a view to making this a reality in a few years' time. It is primarily by combining the fantastic resource that our hydropower is, with offshore wind turbines, that we can contribute to truly significant amounts of renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e540	The Council of State said in its speech that we should have good support mechanisms in place for new renewable energy. My question will then be: What has been the contact between the Government and ESA in the last five months?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e545	There is a great deal of contact between the Minister of Oil and Energy and ESA and my department and ESA on a number of issues. It is not least about CO2 management, but it is also about renewable energy. What is the situation is that we have a case in ESA, a notification of the feed-in system. We choose to put it on ice, because we're busy getting a scheme of green certificates in place as soon as possible. The reality is that the rates of aid contained in the feed-in scheme, at least for wind, will be too weak, and therefore we have chosen not to pursue that track further, but to announce a new round based on investment aid for wind.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e555	New proposals are constantly coming up on how to trigger new renewable energy production and some of them are justified by a black-painting of the situation for which there is no coverage. The last thing is that a red-green politician in Sogn and Fjordane thinks it's a basic good idea to grab on to protected watercourses and suggest power development there. It is an area where there has been a broad consensus in Norway that something has been developed and something is permanently protected. The broad consensus is of great value, and starting to dissolve in this model will have significant adverse effects on the environment. I see that the Central Party’s representative from Sogn and Fjordane has also been enthusiastic and will look into this. I want the Council of State to clarify what is the Government's view. Can she ensure that this is the way it has been for a long time, that protected watercourses are protected, and that those who want to trigger new energy production are given other alternatives?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e560	Reference is made to the opinions of the excellent representatives of the Centre Party from Sogn and Fjordane. I don't fully understand how the words have fallen, but I have a feeling that as a good centre party, you had a desire to express respect for local thinking. That being said, my clear starting point is that the protected watercourses are protected. We have opportunities to wisely expand hydropower in Norway without going into areas that are protected. Then we're talking about upgrading projects and expansion projects, and we're definitely talking about increased deployment of small power plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e567	Let me follow up where the previous representative left off. There was no doubt about what the representative Sande said to the NRK yesterday, namely that he thought this was exciting, and that he would have liked this to be realized, because the protection that has been done exists, but the power development that one sees for itself, and as we wish locally, can be done with very small interventions, and as I said, local democracy wants it, but the protection plan puts an end to it. It's an enormous hydropower potential that can be realized in a gentle way, even within protected areas, and we know that part of hydropower production today is in areas that have been protected afterwards. The council says that there is a potential for upgrading this, but we also see that many hydropower plants, such as in the case of the Middle Norway Space, cannot be upgraded, precisely because the watercourse has now been protected. This is the question: Will the Council of State take the initiative in a thorough review of the overall plan so that it can be cleaned up in order to upgrade existing hydroelectric power plants in protected areas, but also to look at the potential for prudent development in the protection area?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e572	I am deeply concerned that we are going to exploit the hydropower in Norway in an even better way than what we are doing today, and I think we have great opportunities to do so without going into the protected areas. That means that I want to focus on contributing to wise and sensible deployments in areas that are not protected, and I will definitely also make sure that we take advantage of the opportunities that lie in new development.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e577	Then I would like to take a line on green certificates. It has been known that the Soria Moria Declaration states that small-scale power plants should not be part of a green certificate market. In the past, one has said that the reason why one did not obtain a scheme of green certificates in 2006 was that there was a distortion of burden-sharing. Analysts from Econ have said that the reason for this burden-sharing was obviously that the government omitted small power plants from green certificates. Small-scale power plants would be the cheapest production of new renewable energy in Norway. When you exclude it, the next project will be more expensive in Norway than in Sweden. Then it's very relevant both for the small power industry, for the energy industry and for those who work for green certificates, to know: Will the government in this round include small power plants in a green certificate market? Or does the Government stand firm on the Soria Moria statement, as No Marte Thorkildsen from SV also said in the Energy magazine, that small power plants should not be part of the green certificate market, so that we have to conclude that there probably won't be a market this time either?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e582	We are, as the representative Solvik-Olsen knows very well, within a process with Sweden related to establishing a market based on green certificates. When we are in a process with Sweden, it is very difficult to comment on some elements of what is going to come into an agreement, and I simply have to ask for that respect. This will be the case in any debate, and therefore I have to come back to the substance of a green certification system when we have a clarification with Sweden.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e587	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e593	Let me start with a comment on the last line from the Council of State. For of course, if the government actually wants small power plants, there's no problem saying that one initially wants to include it in green certificates, but will come back to the details of how it's included. But when even the Soria Moria statement says it shouldn't be, it shows that the government has actually taken some principal positions there. And the reason why the Progress Party is repeatedly promoting this proposal to put in place an energy policy action plan is that the Government's energy policy, as set out in the Soria Moria Declaration, is so contradictory in many areas that we need to have a thorough debate on it in the main room, so that we can get a comprehensive approach to objectives, to government bodies, to support schemes, to research projects. For now we see that the Government has repeatedly gone out and promised gold and green forests to the bio-food industry, to hydropower, to wind power, to wind turbines, to gas power with CO2 cleaning, to research and development, to industrial power, but none of the times has been followed up by measures where an actual dimension of the governmental body is equivalent, and one has not followed up by dimensioning the support schemes accordingly. At the Norwegian Wind Energy Association's annual meeting on 7 April, the wind industry itself said that if one is to achieve the objective of 3 TWh wind power by 2010, as the Government has said, a multiple aid scheme, for what the Government has put on the table, is not good enough. Then State Secretary Guri Størvold said: "Yes, it shall not be on money! The problem is that that money doesn't exist in the real world. It is not useful to be at the annual meeting of the Small Forces Association, as the Council of State has done, or at the annual meeting of the Norwegian Wind Forces Association, as the Secretary of State has done, and to promise that much will happen when what is delivered in the Government is going in a completely different direction. The only thing the government has provided from politics towards Stortinget is a big message, a single big message, to give some concrete details about what the Government thinks. There was a big message on four pages of renewable energy policy. It was an historic short story, which has already been scrapped. The wind power industry is facing its third support system in two and a half years -- first it was green certificates, then it was the feed-in system, now it's investment support, and everyone goes and hopes that it will be green certificates anyway. So over the course of four years, one has tended to be within four support systems. Is it strange that the industry, all the trade associations, is sitting and saying that there is no whole in this? We have to get this whole thing, and you could get it in a big message. The Labour Party says that the Soria Moria Declaration is complete. The point of the Soria Moria Declaration on Energy Policy is in length with a chronicle in the Class Battle. Is there enough to say something complementary about what the Government wants? The center party says: Action counter. Yeah, well, then it's time to get started. Because if we look at the results, it happens fine little. On the contrary, the industry is concerned about a lack of totality, and most of the power projects that have been notified before the Government took over have been put on ice. The few that are realised are the exceptions to the rule rather than the consequence of what the Government has provided. Therefore, an overall approach should have been discussed in the Storting in order to get the whole thing in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e605	When I hear the representative Solvik-Olsen get up so phenomenally, I have to ask if he was in the room when I made my contribution. I just said that I am planning an energy message that is due to arrive at New Year's. Then we're going to deal with the whole energy policy. It is about everything from oil and gas to renewable policy. It's coming. It's just taking it easy, and in the meantime, we're going to make sure that there's a lot of development work going on in the renewables field. We're going to work on getting the green certificates in place. That is crucial, I believe. It will provide us with a framework that will best support the work on renewable energy over the years to come. Then we can't sit with our hands in jail until we have a green certificate market in place. That is why - and this has happened after my State Secretary was in the Wind Energy Association - we have announced a new round of investment aid for wind power. It came on April 21st, and the goal of that round is to trigger new wind power, and the goal of getting projects going concretely, so that we can secure 3 TWh by 2010, is on track. Then we have just presented a bioenergy strategy. It is important for us to address the challenges primarily in the field of heat, where we have a formidable potential for energy saving. Let me also remind you that on 5 February we got the plan Energy21. There the industry, that is industry, industry, research institutions and authorities work together to advance the main priorities in the field of energy - very important - not least because we then know that we are doing everything we can to develop this important field. We have had very good experience with the corresponding approach in the field of petroleum, and therefore I feel very sure that this will be a success, not least because the priorities laid down in this broad work coincide entirely with the priorities of the Government. This is a field where there's a lot going on. The size gets the opportunity to take the broad debate when the energy message comes. In the meantime, we're going to work systematically in areas by area to make things happen in the real world.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e618	The rhetoric we now heard from the Council of State has unfortunately become typical of the Minister of Oil and Energy in this Government. We heard it during Enoch's first six months in the Council of State that promised to sort out most of what he claimed was the fault of the Bondevik II government. The problem was that when he left two years later, he had only delivered a big message that has been scolded by the Government. What one now hears the state council Haga boasting of, just the same offensive approach, is like hearing a football coach boasting great goals in a fight where they are less than 10-0. It's not very credible. When one sees it one says about Enova and betting on new wind power - yes, one has a goal of 3 TWh new wind power by 2010. I think the vast majority of people who heard that goal, thought it would be windmills that stood and produced 3 TWh in 2010. State Secretary Guri Størvold gave the impression of it in today's business no later than a few weeks ago. At the same time, the Council of State has said many times that it should not be finished producing wind power. It's enough it's a contract party in Enova. State councils should like to confirm whether 3 TWh wind power will be produced in 2010, or is it enough that it is contractually secured in Enova? There's a very different way of doing this. In particular, the Council of State should comment on this to be realized in the way that Enova feels that they now have a clear signal, at least according to a statement in Today's Business two weeks ago, where one says that the objective of 3 TWh wind power is to be achieved - cost what it will cost. That's what's been the problem, that the government's entire signal hasn't been holistic in any way. There has been a signal that allows Enova to use billions of dollars to realize the last plot or kilowatt, just because the government has said what the goal is. Yeah, it's great if the government comes up with a big message about this. But then the question is, why is one voting against this in Stortinget? It is not possible for the Council of State to give a single answer, and the representative of the Workers' Party spoke in his main speech that the Soria Moria statement is good enough. Yeah, what's that really mean? I would like to look forward to such a big message. The problem is that the big message should have come in the first year of this government's period, not in the last one. What happens when it's finished is that the Storting takes a summer vacation, and then it's a campaign. But it's like that, because then the government can boast that they've put something forward and hidden behind it, without being judged on what they're actually going to do. It'll be like when the Council of State boasts of the biopsy. Yes, a biostrategie was presented that has also not been anchored in Stortinget through a notification or proposition. But what's worth noting is that the industry, when they write their chronicles and letters in professional bodies, butchers this bio bet and says this is just old pudding. It's old money, it's old stuff. There is nothing new, and there are no believers in relation to the goals of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e629	When we go to the big hall, perhaps Norway's main pulpit, it is important to prepare. I tend to read through the documents and attachments in every case that we have. I have also done that this time, and in the first sentence of the letter from the Council of State that we got to this matter, it says: ‘The Government presented the main features of its Energy Policy Action Plan in the Soria Moria Declaration. This plan forms the basis for the Government’s work during this large-scale period.» When I read the setting for today's case, there is not a single small word that there will be a separate energy message. So from this case, something was released in the committee a few weeks ago, and until today, May 8, something has obviously happened in the government. Nothing's better. Because we in the opposition believe that we need an energy message. So nothing is more joyous. But what we see again is that the pressure from an overall opposition is giving results. It has produced results in the form of green certificates, and it will now produce results through an energy message. I'm looking forward to maybe in a year's time, at this time, discussing the energy message. I enjoy it and look forward to it, because it is a crucial, important matter that comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e641	It's been said up to any big-time representative to boast exactly what he wants, but now it's been a very long time since the government said that we should provide a petroleum message at the end of the year--and that message comes. And I'm expanding it to become a broader energy message. I think it's a wise approach, because then we get to see the whole of what I choose to call energy policy. For me, energy policy deals with both the petroleum industry and the other classic energy activities. So what we're talking about is we're going to take the kerosene message, as we've talked about several times in this room, and we're going to take it as a starting point, and then we're going to expand it to include the broader energy perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e648	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3213]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e664	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines following the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e673	Debate and opinions on the power situation in Central Norway are a continuing event both inside and outside the Stortinget. The motives for raising the debate may be more, but I choose to see it positive in such initiatives. It is true that the power situation in Central Norway is demanding because the growth in consumption, especially in industry, over many years has not been followed up by sufficient generation of power within the region or transmission capacity that can accommodate the worst case drying year. In an extreme case, exceptional measures in the form of rationalisation, agreed reductions in consumption in some businesses or the use of back-up power in the form of power from mobile gas plants must be considered. The answer to these challenges is new power transmission connections, new production in the form of more hydropower, bio and wind. There is also much to be gained from energy saving and energy efficiency improvement, including. through support funds from Enova. The region flows by gas. Gas power is part of the solution. The main challenge in Central Norway, as elsewhere in our country, is total dependence on hydropower, with the uncertainty associated with fluctuating amounts of rainfall. This has now been visible in the middle of Norway. A very visible sign of the imbalance between the regions of the Norwegian power market is that the prices of power to the consumer are sometimes higher in Central Norway. As long as this price difference is small, the problem is small, but if the difference were to be large and persistent, this is not acceptable. The Minister of Oil and Energy, in a letter to the Stortinget on the matter we are dealing with today, has given a very good signal, as she says: ‘However, let me underline my clear objective that the specific price range in Central Norway will be lifted as soon as possible.’ That's good. I know that a number of measures are needed to get this done, and I'll mention someone. The risk of undermining power in the region needs to be greatly reduced. It is very important that Statnet, as a system administrator and responsible for the development of the central transmission system, has already implemented a number of voltage support measures that allow us to make better use of existing networks. We will soon have a significant increase in the transfer capacity from Mid-Sweden, an increase in the import potential of between 0.6 and 1 TWh. Then I expect the construction of a new line from Fardal in Sogn and Fjordane and into Møre and Romsdal, to Ørskog, to be started as soon as the concession treatment is over. The ‘insurance scheme’ in the form of the use of mobile gas power plants may prevent very unfortunate disconnection. I also trust that gas power plants can be built in central Norway. There are three possible projects: one in the Forest, one on the Rover and the other in the Fröna/Aukra area. I expect a constructive dialogue between the departments concerned and the concession holders/licenses. I have noticed that Industrialkraft Møre has recently received two powerful joint owners - by buying into a 50 pst share. by Tafjord Kraft, one of the leading power producers in the county, and a new joint venture by Norsk Mineral AS having entered the owner’s side. I have reason to believe that Enova looks with goodwill at new renewable energy in the region and thus becomes an important supporter both in the heat and wind. Although some wind power projects may be controversial - and they are - it is my belief that wind power projects should be developed and thus can make important contributions to the power supply in the region. In this context, it is important for the Minister of Energy to state that she will not sit and wait for regional or national action plans, but to make rapid and ongoing decisions when the projects are ready. That's good. I will also bring forward the government's strong commitment to bioenergy, which of course will benefit Mid-Norway. An excellent example is the bio-fuel plant that More and Romsdal Biofuel have under planning on Averøya, a factory that can produce up to 450,000 tonnes of pellets, a time-lapse of the entire Norwegian pellet production today. This factory has been promised close to 100 million. kr from Enova. We hope that in Norway we can become major consumers of pellets. In total, measures are in place, or under planning, which in the short term can ensure the power balance in central Norway. We also have confidence in Statnett's statement that the short-term situation is also under control. But now all efforts must be made to implement existing plans so that all uncertainties can be eliminated.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e712	When I heard Kristoffersen's posts, I got a little déjà vu feeling, because this is exactly what we experienced two years ago, the last time we discussed the issue. That's the problem in this case, that energy policy speaks a lot, but there are very few results. Many words are delivered, many measures and actions are provided, but none of them materialise, because they are not followed up with sufficient money, adequate clarifications in terms of framework conditions, or sufficient authority. In this way, Mid-Norway is the illustration of the fall of the politicians in energy policy. It has been announced for many years that the power situation in the region would be difficult. When one decided to expand the Worm Lange, when one decided to expand the Sunndal, everyone knew that this would increase the power consumption. Yes, only Hydro Sunndal represents as much power as the entire Oslo city. But did something happen on the force side? No, it didn't. A closed eye for the power situation when the Worm Lange was treated in Stortinget. Neither the Workers' Party, the Center Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party nor the Left said one word about the power situation in Middle Norway during the Worm Lange treatment, simply because they knew that the gas power question would be central to such a debate. None of them could tackle it, because the political clarification is not in those parties. The only two parties that addressed the problem were SV, which does not want gas power plants, and therefore also warned against the Worm Lange, and the Progress Party, which accepts it as a necessity, and thus argued for it even when it was the Worm Lange. So a closed eye-- but the consequences don't go away for that reason. Now we see that the residents of central Norway have to pay the price. Stryn Energie estimates that a normal household in Central Norway will have to pay over NOK 2000 more for its electricity than a household in South Norway will have to, just for 2008, and they expect it to increase even more in the years to come. When the price range in Middle Norway was introduced, red-green politicians promised that this would cost a maximum of 0.5 cents to 1 cent. kWh. That's all that was needed, promised Ola Borten Moe at the NRK on November 6, 2006. It promised Stokkan Grande from the Workers' Party in Trunder-Avisa on the same days. Now we see that the price difference is many tens. This is a manifest breach of promises by the Government, and especially when one knows that the former Council of State of Enoksen on 20 April 2006 said to the Address Paper that he considered ‘it to be irrelevant that Mid-Norway would have a higher price of electricity than the rest of the country’. The government's policy is mildly a floating target here. The problem is that they misrepresent the entire debate by promising a mass that is not being fulfilled. But the results are known in ordinary people's wallet, and it's noticed in the industrial companies' attempts to have a forward-looking business. A mid-Norway action plan was promised. The last time we discussed this issue in the staging room, Minister for Oil and Energy Odd Roger Enoksen - 1 June 2006: ‘I am now working on an action plan as requested, to address the power situation in Central Norway, with a view to bringing forward the action plan early in the autumn’, i.e. in 2006. That action plan has never been presented to Stortinget - never! So the government says yes, but we're doing a lot of action. Yes, let's look at what the government has actually contributed that is genuine red-green. All that Statnett does is say publicly that these are things they planned long before the red-green government ingested the offices. They're just continuing plans that already existed. There is nothing genuine red-green about the renewable energy support scheme, except that everything has been put at risk. Green certificates would have been honoured with another government, which had also included small power plants, and thus had an agreement with Sweden. The only thing that is genuine red-green in the actions towards Middle Norway is two mobile gas power plants, which cost over NOK 2 billion, and as the Council of State rightly says she hopes never to be used, but which in the worst case will give CO2 emissions far worse than from coal power plants. And then we just have to think about what we could do with 2 billion kroner, if we had said: use them to subsidize existing measures. If we first say that we're willing to spend $2 billion, we need to see where we get the most for them, and not just push them away in a measure that hopefully never gets used. Because when we get into the gas power situation, as the industry says, the only measure that can realise enough power, and then eliminates the power price risk within the time horizon we're talking about, we have to look at: what has the government done on the gas power side? Well, there's been a project in Forest, where the prime minister said it's just putting the shovel in the ground. But he has not done anything to get gas for the project. With regard to the Tjeldbergodden, state councilman Enoxen said that he was sure that this would be realized. But it hasn't got any help, and it's now been squandered. The franc has been refused gas power plants because they didn't have CO2 cleaning, but the NVE also said, if you ask for a CO2 treatment concession, you'll still get a discount, because it's socio-economically unprofitable. The government has not provided any good clarifications, except for two mobile gas power plants. And it's a shame to Mid-Norway. I take up the proposals from the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e748	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e751	This is a proposal that has previously been taken up by the Right, and I have no world thing against this proposal being re-examined, this time by the Progress Party. I think it's time today's government starts to take on the fact that you're in government year three, of four. Former oil and energy minister Odd Roger Enoxsen promised to present an action plan, initially in the autumn of 2006, which he did not deliver. He then promised that this action plan would be put in place before Christmas 2006. It has not been delivered either, but the answer today is that we do not need an action plan, we need action. Okay, let's say there's no need for action plan, but there's a need for action. But then one must certainly take the trouble of delivering action in this area. I can't see any physical, concrete action being delivered, other than the purchase of two mobile gas plants - the last one that this forum could be thought to put on the table. Knowing that all of the three gas power projects planned at the government shift are now largely shattered by today's government, and at the same time you are in a situation where during a few years you get a deficit in the order of annual consumption in the whole of the Great Oslo, you have to get into an action phase. When you talk about the concept of ‘action phase’, the answer is left from red-green politicians, Enova. And then you ask, what was the question? So the answer is Enova. But also there I think it's time to be able to point out action, because you know that this takes a long time. One project after another is being launched, and we are now going to wait for what will be delivered, also in the follow-up to the climate agreement in the context of the revised national budget, which is due on the 15th of this month. Then I have to say that although I have certain expectations, I believe that this time too I risk being greatly disappointed, not least on behalf of households, businesses and industry in Central Norway. It no longer lasts for the red-green politicians, who also this time use the opportunity -- not to look forward, not to talk about what to deliver, but to talk about the snow that fell last year. You can't literally assume that there's going to be a lot of snow and a lot of rain in the future in Middle Norway, and that it's going to solve the problem. You have to deliver in this area. If not, households and industry pay a bloody high price for this. Yesterday the play came from the municipality of Stryn, as has been explained so far here today. The proposal of the red-green majority in Stryn - that is, Breheimen, which is located in the same region - was barely shot up before it was immediately shot down by the Minister for the Environment. You don't even take the trouble to get the question solved to see how we're going to be able to deliver renewable energy within the short period of time we're wearing to be able to do this job. All this I think it can be festive, and professionally interesting, and Polish nice to discuss in the 2009 election campaign, and I really enjoy that. We are going to bring forward Stoltenberg's 1st May speeches in 2004 and 2005, and we are going to present other examples of lifting breaches. But this, I think, has to shine as lean comfort for all those who are going to develop and live in this region further. It is therefore very important that, in addition to the acquisition of these highly polluting mobile gas power plants, which have been purchased by a red-green government, the breakage is now taking place in an action and delivery phase.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e772	As previously pointed out in several debates on this topic, some of the reasons for vulnerability to the power situation in central Norway, as elsewhere, are that almost all power generation is based on hydropower. In addition, we use electricity for heating, a situation that has put many Nordics in a trap that they are struggling to get out of. At the same time, we have a lot of powerful business located in the same area, which was put on the verge when the Worm Lange was put into operation without the then bourgeois government at all being willing to take on the fact that the situation was already strained. The responsibility for these problems must therefore be shared by more people, and the solutions must be diverse. There is much that can be done to remedy the situation. The Minister for Oil and Energy, by letter of 4 March 2008, explained the measures taken to prevent the region from coming into a situation where there would be a lack of force. In addition, Statnett has implemented a number of network actions in central Norway in recent years, which are of great importance, not least in dry years. It is invested in stress support, which will help keep the voltage within acceptable limits. It has also introduced its own and lower input tariffs for all producers connected to the central network of the region. The increased transmission capacity between central Norway and Sweden, the Nea-Järp stream, will be completed in the autumn of 2009, which will provide approximately 200 MW in increased transmission capacity to Central Norway. Much else is done or is on the stairs as well. So it's done a good job of relieving the situation. However, I would warn against believing that increased production and network capacity is the complete answer. On the contrary, we in SV believe that the long-term response is quite different, namely on the consumption side, seafaringly in combination with large-scale efforts on new renewable energy. But it's primarily because we need to replace fossil energy with renewable energy, and because we have an enormous export potential, which Åslaug Haga had in the previous debate, and which also includes. The Research Council is very concerned. I would therefore like to focus my contribution on the need for energy saving, energy efficiency improvement and large-scale investment in the production of new renewable energy. Increased commitment to new renewable energy production and energy efficiency improvement are key elements of a strategy for an improved energy balance and an improvement in the overall energy balance, and especially in Central Norway. In total, this strategy aims to deliver 30 TWh by 2016. The climate agreement offers good framework conditions for wind power and other renewable energy. A significant expansion of wind power will also have a significant impact on the power situation in central Norway, a region where the potential is high. I mentioned hydropower as part of the vulnerability related to the power situation in central Norway in particular, and in Norway in general. We've put ourselves in a trap in this country. Some have said that the Norwegian tradition of heating our houses with electricity from hydropower is like washing the garage floor with five star cocoons - a rather crude fleet. The Nature Conservation Association in More and Romesdal, for its part, has pointed out that there is no power crisis in Middle Norway, but a heat crisis. We just need to get people out of the power trap and into energy forms that match their needs for heating and cooling. Then we can have in mind that since the 1950s, Sweden, our neighbouring country, has used district heating to a large extent to cover the consumption of energy for heating. The most important thing, however, is that we are actively working on energy saving in all conceivable areas. The Nature Conservation Association has calculated that we can save 5.1 TWh in Central Norway. There is anyway a lot to pick up on a strong commitment to energy saving and smarter ways to use energy. An example is from Enova, and was referred to by NTB earlier this year: By choosing new lighting technology, Norwegian municipalities, county councils and the state will be able to save almost 500 million. kr per year. Measurements have shown that it is possible to achieve a total energy reduction of up to 70 pst. some places. One challenge is that the network companies partially own the street lights and, moreover, would like to have the benefits of energy saving seas. Here we can help clean up. Another example is industrial waste heat. On a global scale, 50 pst is going. by the energy consumption of the game called ‘waste heat’, because no systems have been created to capture it and use it for, for example: heating. This is also most relevant to Norway. More and Romesdal have access to large amounts of bioenergy and at the same time need to invest in sustainable jobs. Bioheat is a good alternative in More and Romesdal. The government has recently put forward a bioenergy strategy that, hopefully, will be able to speed up such a commitment. At the same time, we must continue to build up infrastructure for heating. The new Law on Planning and Building can help to speed up parts of this development. What we have to prevent is that there is an infrastructure for the distribution of gas to households. It's going backwards into the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e787	Both in a normal year and in a dry year, we have challenges with power availability in Middle Norway. This has to be solved. We have to think of power throughout the country, because there are also other regions that will come after Middle Norway. The best and most environmentally friendly kilowatt hour is the kilowatt hour we don't use. We all have a responsibility to think about energy saving. As politicians, those who need to create framework conditions, it is important that we facilitate energy saving, and it is important that we inform about good actions that we can all do as consumers, but also as business owners. But then our society needs energy. We also have to facilitate this. We must choose environmentally friendly energy and development and more production of new renewable energy. The government's goal is to have 30 TWh new renewable energy in 2016. Enova is the main instrument of the Government. It's important that Enova works, and that they do the job they're going to do. It is also important that Enova has the tools needed by the industry to trigger this renewable energy. I can understand the decision of the Presidency of Stryn to repeal the protective plan decision in Protection Plan IV. If you look at it on the basis of the government's policy in relation to the tax conversion, I can see that it is believed that the government wants a large-scale expansion of major hydropower projects. I understand, but I don't agree, that the Presidency of Stryn is trying to add up to. But if you look at the decision on the basis of the government's policy, you'll find arguments as to why they're doing what they're doing. This government is most concerned with actions and not so much about thinking in full and making action plans, we have heard in the previous debate. In the setting, the Left and Christian People's Party have suggestions for different action points that the Government might consider. In central Norway, a good technology environment exists, and it is an area that can be used as a pilot project to develop technology and more renewable energy. We give this proposal free of charge to the Government. It may be there until the day the Government needs more action points. For this area, more action is needed, and we hope the Government can look at this proposal and perhaps benefit from it as the pressure increases.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e807	Even though current prices today are 7 cents per cent. KWh, it's coverage to say that the power situation in Middle Norway, which is the theme today, is demanding. It is so demanding that there is a need for a planned approach to the challenges facing it. We note that the Government lacks it, and is not willing to follow up its promise to present an action plan. What we also need is the similarity between what you're saying you're going to do, and what you're actually doing. It's e.g. in the context of renewable energy production so that measures to reduce interest have not been taken for years to stimulate it. That was the case when the green certificate was scrapped. That's what's the effect of a stronger regime in the case of taxes on small power plants. That's what happens when there are long treatment queues in the NVE for those who work with small power and with wind power. The Left and Christian People's Party has put forward an arrangement with Central Norway as a separate supply area, and as a geographical area for the development of sustainable energy solutions, based on resources existing in this region. Like No Marte Thorkildsen, I want to point out the great opportunities that exist in relation to energy efficiency. We tend to put too little emphasis on it in energy debates. Ethics are the cheapest and often the best solutions. It was also indicated here that in this area the municipalities could save hundreds of millions of dollars. There may be a sensitive input in connection with the request for the communicative proposal. Measures to reduce the energy expenditure of municipalities will also be a good contribution to energy and the environment. I am amazed that the government has prioritised and accepted that 2.5 billion kroner are spent on the purchase of mobile gas power plants in this region. I am completely unintelligible that, with the focus that you have today, and have had in the past, on energy efficiency and an increase in work, SV has chosen to contribute to the deployment of the funds into mobile gas power plants. There are very large amounts of energy that could be triggered if one had spent it on renewable energy production, and large quantities could have been saved if this had been channelled into support schemes or measures that would contribute to better housekeeping with energy resources. In this situation, it is also incomprehensible to me that the Government has not accepted the invitation from Hafslund, which, in connection with the bio plant on Averøya, as Asmund Kristoffersen said, has said that they want an agreement with the state on the supply of spare power, i.e. the same type of supply as the mobile gas power plants will provide. So the government is willing to spend DKK 2.5 billion on reserve power on mobile gas plants, but is not willing to engage in real conversations with those who are now going to build a plant on Aver Island and who are willing to make spare power available. In some of the previous speakers, the theme has been that Stryn politicians want to build up power in protected areas. I think that's how this kind of thing happens when it happens little. Had the government been more active in this area, I think it would have been less mood to go to this measure, which I am also very pleased that the Council of State has said today is quite out of date. It means in clear terms that politicians, whether they are representatives of Sogn and Fjordane or neighbouring areas or local politicians, must focus on other solutions if they want to increase renewable energy production. I'm a little surprised that Ivar Kristiansen from the Right is critical of the government's refusal to open up or evaluate expansion in protected areas. I have always believed that the Right was part of the majority behind the established policy in this area, but it is possible that this is a result of Børge Brande leaving the country. Otherwise, there is talk of stress support, and such support is a good use for all of us who follow the energy policy of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e824	A wide range of measures are being implemented to improve the power situation in Central Norway. It concerns increased transmission capacity, increased investment in energy conversion and different types of new production, as well as other measures to ensure security of supply in the region. Statnet has an important role in Central Norway, both because they have the task of managing the system and because they are responsible for expanding the central transmission system. Following its accession, the government has actively supported the comprehensive measures implemented and implemented by the State Network in order to improve the power situation in the region. This includes, inter alia: investments in voltage support in the transmission system. This contributes to transfer opportunities entering and leaving central Norway. Furthermore, Statnett has decided to invest in and start the construction of transfer capacity between Central Norway and Sweden. This compound shall be in place in the autumn of 2009. Statnet has submitted a concession request for a new transfer link between Sogn and More to NVE. The construction of this link will make an important contribution to improving the power situation in Central Norway. Statnet, as a transmission system operator, is responsible for dividing electricity spot areas in the event of expected energy shortages into a geographically demarcated area, or for managing large and long-term bottlenecks in the regional and central networks. A dedicated price range in Central Norway was established as one of several measures to improve power availability and security of supply in the area. The length of maintenance of the price range in Central Norway is an assessment Statnett has to do based on the concrete physical conditions. Since central Norway is a structural deficit area, it is important that there is a signal of continued saving of water in the region. This is signalled through the price range and it is important that actors take this into account in their planning. But when this is said, it is my clear goal to remove a separate price range in central Norway as quickly as possible. The government's increased investment in energy conversion is an important element of the Government's strategy for improving the power situation in Central Norway. There are many current energy conversion projects in the region. Enova's 2008 framework, which is beyond SEK 1.5 billion - a doubling of the framework compared to 2007 - provides a good starting point for strengthening efforts in this area, which many people have been involved in here, and which I believe is systematically sub-communicated as an opportunity in relation to the energy field. The government has an ambitious target of 30 TWh new renewable energy production and energy efficiency improvement by 2016. To achieve this objective, good mechanisms are needed to stimulate the production of renewable energy in place. The government, as we have already talked about before today, has launched new talks with Sweden about green certificates, and as we know, there are measures all of us here in this room agree on. In order to speed up the development of wind power and pending the certification market, we have announced a new round of investment aid for wind power through Enova. The call is financed by the funds provided by Enova through the Energy Fund. The target is 3 TWh in 2010, and we're going to spend billions on this for years to come. There are many good candidates who can apply for support. They're also in Middle Norway. I believe it is important to speed up the development of new wind turbines. The current support level is not high enough. That is why we have arranged for a new round of investment aid. And we've said that it has to be raised so high that we actually get triggered projects. I have also contacted Shell as an operator at the Worm Lange to find out if there is a basis for power generation associated with the Augera. The ministry is now in dialogue with Shell, but it is too early to say whether this power generation is a desired solution. In connection with the meeting on the power situation that was held in Stjørdal in January, I said that I would set up a group to follow the work to improve the power situation in Central Norway. The group held its first meeting. It was a good and constructive meeting. Both the Ministry, Statnett and the participants in the group have concrete follow-up points for the next meeting. I am concerned that we should strengthen communication between the different actors in the region, because I perceive that we have been in a situation where the trust between the different actors has been too small.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e846	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e849	This was a rather general feature of the Council of State. So let's do a little bit of detail. One of the solutions proposed to Central Norway is the development of gas power plants. Real good projects have been proposed. One of the last was Industrikraft Møre's project at Fränna. They were rejected by the NVE, on the grounds that the project did not have CO2 cleaning. The NVE said that they had assessed giving Industrikraft more concession, assuming that it was CO2 cleaning - but they would also refuse it, because the project would be socio-economically unprofitable. So one is doomed to no, no matter what projects you deliver in Middle Norway. Then the question is, when the Council of State then goes on to tell Shell at Aukra that they are going to assess a gas power plant, what framework conditions are different from those of the Frenna, can Shell expect - in relation to CO2 clean-up, in relation to financial support and in relation to the transmission of gas?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e870	It is true that there are several proposals to build gas power plants in central Norway, among others. one in Forest. The situation for Forest is that they have both a permit for emissions and an energy concession - and can start if they are able to achieve profitability in their project. The challenge for the gas power projects in the region is precisely this: it is not possible to achieve profitability. It is a relationship that I believe the representative Solvik-Olsen has a tendency to overlook. When it comes to the issue of Shell and Aukra, we have asked for an assessment of the possibility of establishing a gas power plant dedicated to the socket. This means that you will be able to apply slightly different criteria, not in the form of cleaning, but in relation to other elements that can make it more profitable to build this gas power plant.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e877	No one argues that Mid Norway will have a sub-coverage of 8-10 TWh over a two-year period ahead of time. Then my question is: When the Government says yes to the purchase of mobile gas power plants, is it so to understand that at the same time, based on the debate we have had earlier today, it says no to at least correct the possible expansion of the Breheimen watercourse, which can provide 400-500 GWh with new renewable energy? Has the Government finally concluded on this question? If the answer is yes, I would think that more than me are wondering what is the logic behind such a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e884	As I said earlier today, I am concerned that we have a significant hydropower potential in Norway. That we should seek to take out more than what we are doing today - through upgrading, through expansion and by starting up entirely new projects. I believe that there are plenty of projects to tackle, and we can contribute a lot of power without going into the protected areas. My clear approach to this is that protected areas are protected areas. We respect that. We have plenty of opportunities to drive new power generation without going into protected areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e891	There is a lot to say about the decision to grant DKK 2.5 billion to provide mobile gas power plants for Middle Norway, but at least it shows a willingness to blow up billions in a situation where a feeling is necessary. Now this is channelled through Statkraft, but it is in interaction with political authorities. Then my question is, how does the Council of State assess the possibility of taking a similar power cap in an area which is not to be reserved but which is actually to trigger savings kWh or new kWh? In other words, what is the big deal about energy saving, energy efficiency improvement and new production in this area? That's exactly what the Left and Christian People's Party has proposed in their scheme: measures that can provide both energy saving and new energy in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e898	I believe that you have a tendency to take too lightly on the reason why you have chosen to go in with mobile gas power plants in central Norway. As authorities, we have a responsibility to ensure that people have good supply of energy, and we definitely have a responsibility to ensure that the social consequences of breaches do not become widespread. When we've chosen to go in with mobile gas plants, it's like a clean insurance scheme so that it won't go in black in mid-Norway. I believe something else would be completely irresponsible. Because when we took over the government power in 2005, it had been decided to add up to a situation in central Norway where the large additional consumption that came in the region was not taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e905	The government has a target of 30 TWh new renewable energy by 2016. The goals of the Center Party have certainly never been anything to say - I remember the climate goals of 1990. The instruments are not present. The only concrete instrument put on the table for new renewable energy, which has had some special effect, has been to increase hydropower taxation by 8 ø/kWh. That it helps to achieve the target of 30 TWh new renewable energy by 2016, I doubt. At the same time, the government has chosen to spend between 2 and 2.5 billion kroner on these temporary power plants in More and Romesdal. So we have two very good pottery projects on the Harbak mountain and on the Outer Vikna wind power projects that are ready for construction. Can the Council of State promise that instruments will be provided to enable these wind farms to be realised as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e912	Let me just first make it clear that 30 TWh by 2016 is an ambitious goal. It is about the development of new renewable energy, but it is also about energy conversion. I think it's alarmingly rare that we hear the Progress Party talk about energy conversion and energy saving. In the case of wind power, I repeat what I said in the hall earlier today. On 21 April we announced a new round of investment aid for wind power. Then it's up to those who have a concession to apply. If the projects to which the representative Lien refers are sufficiently good and reach, they will be able to receive support in this round.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e919	The reason for the previous answer is to inform the Council of State that only three projects will be ready to apply for support, so that I think she gives a slightly distorted picture. But back to gas power, because there is also a very distorted picture when one claims that there is only the economy that is the problem for, for example. Uncle. The problem for France is not economics. The problem is that the government of the State Council has ordered the NVE to pursue a policy in which a refusal of the project to Fräna is made regardless of whether or not the project comes with CO2 clean-up. So they're not going to build, they're going to get no concession whatever the project they're going to do. Then the Council of State cannot hide behind the fact that this is about economics. If all gas power plants in Norway are unprofitable, why is one then based on Mongstad, which the Government has boasted for so long? If the government believes that a ‘dedicated’ facility for Aukra is important, why could she not say that the Franja should have the same status? Then a just built one line from the Freeway, past the Worm Lange and out into the sea, if that's the point. The uncle can realize now. One has to start over if the Worm Lange is to be realized.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e929	Let me first clarify something about what the representative said first related to the wind. We have a number of complaints in the department. I am concerned that we should be able to respond relatively quickly, so that we have a wider range of projects that can be addressed in the context of the important round that we have now submitted on the wind. In the case of gas power plants, the reality is that the Government and the Advance Party disagree, because the Government believes that new gas power plants will have CO2 management. It's in the Soria Moria statement. We have a political disagreement on this. I believe that it is irresponsible to start up new gas power plants without cleaning. That is a political position. I note that the Progress Party has a different approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e940	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e945	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen began his speech by saying that the government's words are not followed up with money. It is both wrong and misleading. I mentioned in my article more examples of measures and associated use of money, for example. Enova money in a range that few can show the husband. Billions of investment in network improvement and new networks are also money, even if they are not directly taken out of the treasury. Great money has been invested in bio and heat, and the investment aid that was announced is, as the Council of State just mentioned, related to wind. I also believe that I dare to claim that we strongly inspire that we have built a new transmission line from Sogn and Fjordane when that concession treatment is over. Governments also mentioned that Shell as the operator of the Worm Lange on Nyhamna had been challenged to find out whether there was a basis for power generation associated with the plant. After listening to the posts from both the Right and the Advance Party, I have to ask: What are the answers of these parties besides what the Government has actually done and has announced that it will do? Are these parties even going to apply for concessions? I think we're about to be sober in the argument about power development and how it actually happens. So it's like companies are applying for a concession, they're getting these concessions approved, and then they're building them. And as far as I know -- I take that reservation -- the government has not said no to a single concession in Middle Norway. On the other hand, the government has done what is possible within the rules of the game we have to deal with, as the Storting has decided, just to ensure that it is inspired by new production. So also the Storting is well-known that the Government, among other things. In the light of the environmental agreement here some time ago, efforts are being made to improve the framework conditions in order to achieve more renewable energy, as the Council of State also stated in its statement. In the case of the mobile gas power stations, the answer has also been given. The need for this comes from the neglect of previous governments. And I have to say, as a resident in central Norway and as a representative of a state in central Norway, that I want us to have this insurance scheme in place, and that we can avoid the houses going in black, as the council said here. It cannot be tolerated by the industry, nor can it be tolerated by private households. It was not possible, I think, to go into Hafslund's scheme, which was very unclear. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e956	The President will remind you that when the red lamp goes out, the speaking time is up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e959	I know that I get a little hot at the top when I hear Asmund Kristoffersen's last post - that it is not the government's fault that there is a power crisis in Central Norway, and that the Progress Party has not promoted any proposals that could have changed it. Then I ask him to read e.g. The processing of the plan for the expansion and operation of the Worm Lange, where the solution of the Advance Party was presented. Had it been followed then, we had no power crisis in Middle Norway. So you could say that the government hasn't said no to any other concessions. There has been a refusal to accept a concession in the representative's own home state, namely Møre and Romsdal, in Fränna. It was done by NVE. NVE is part of the government's apparatus. We've also created a small-scale support regime of 4 cents per cent. kWh, while introducing a tax tightening of 8 øre per. kWh. There has been a reduction in the development of Sauda, which is today said no to the expansion of Stryn, and the framework conditions for windmill expansion are being created so far that it is completely impossible to build windmills in central Norway. So we'll see if it changes in this round. The representative also says that the contribution to my colleague, Mr Solvik-Olsen, is misleading. At best, it must also be called the Government's letter to the Energy and Environment Committee dated 4 March, where it says that the situation in 2008 is that there is 3 TWh too little energy in Middle Norway. But no one has said that it is expected to be black in 2008, it is in 2009 and especially in 2010 - when one expects Hustad Marble and the TBO license to go too full, that Washington Mills, Elektem, the woodworking industry, etc., etc. in central Norway goes too full -- the need is going to be 6 TWh and not 3 TWh. So the 2008 at all is mentioned in the letter from the Government, is only suitable for misleading in this debate. Then I have to say that the representative Thorkildsen is in on a track when she talks about diet-benefit and reduced consumption. Of course, it's smart to reduce consumption in Middle Norway in a sensible way, but when you start talking about private homes, I have to say that all the private homes in the three Middle Norwegian states use a total of 9 TW. To reduce from 9 TW to 3, which the need would have been, by 2010, I find completely unprofessional. And I want to come back once again to hope that the government's somewhat unclear signals about windmill expansion will cause us to expand both the Outer Vakna and the Harbak Mountain as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e972	This is going to be a little bit of a backward debate, but when reality is that we have an unresolved problem in Middle Norway that means that the undercoverage is 8-10 TW over the course of a two-year period, as well as that we have a situation where we have a climate deal that says we're going to have 30 TW of new renewable energy in place over an eight-year period in Norway, we have to, in the name of propriety, get into an action phase. Then there won't be any questions about what the Progress Party, Right or others have proposed, because we can document and put on the table, shelf meter on shelf meter, but it's after all the government that sits with its initiative, and that has to take these initiatives and not just do the talking. Also, considering that the terrain has obviously changed in Norway, where consumption of energy is increasing quite dramatically - the last year between 3 and 4 pst. --and how vulnerability and undercovering in a dry year can be quite dramatic, we make ourselves even more dependent on imports, and then we know what kind of energy comes out of the plug. Then it becomes a bit polemic and a little funny when the committee leader, Gunnar Kvassheim, has a visit to the Right and to Børge Burnde's relocation. I think we have to relate to the world of reality, and it's clearly described, not least in the situation in Middle Norway. It is a bit interesting that Kvassheim, just enough, shoots at SV in terms of the use and purchase of mobile gas power plants - it is easy to understand that type of criticism. But when he simultaneously shoots against the Right, who at least asks for an investigation into what kind of hydropower plant we can manage to expand for in the years to come, this will be nothing but a game of politics where you avoid talking about which alternatives you want to put on the table yourself. I just noticed that in the case of Middle Norway, the desire to build 700-800-900 wind turbines, which are 100 metres high, is not particularly present. The pleasure of putting gas power plants in place is also not particularly present. When you say no to almost every measure, and at the same time it records the increase in consumption, I'm not sure that the people of Central Norway have reason to be particularly reassured by that kind of political approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e981	I think it is quite free to blame the representative of Kristoffersen for the situation in Central Norway. The representative Kristoffersen is thus challenged to respond to what the Workers' Party did when the Worm Lange was adopted, in order to expand more power in Norway. If a single sentence is found in the position or in the debate in the grand hall on the Worm Lange case, the representative Kristoffersen shall have credibility - but it does not find one, for it does not exist. Yes, it's okay, Statnett spends money on continuing the project that was started under the red-green government. Yes, it is possible to boast of that money. One can boast of the money deposited in a renewable fund of $20 billion so far. The problem is that one does not get triggered by new power generation. That's what you're measuring. Putting off money where the plug is so narrow that they don't come out on the other side in terms of new production, it doesn't help much as the moulding mechanism. The government says they haven't said no to a single concession. No, but the NVE, which is the government's body, and which bases its proceedings on the government's signal, has said no to a number of projects. The uncle is one example, the upgrade and upgrade of the space is another example. The government can then hide behind that it's not the government that has done it, but they're based on the government's signal. Is it such that all cases should be dealt with to the Government, with that policy a leader? Uncle is an example. They got no from NVE. When the Council of State then, in its reply, talks about the Progress Party and the Government disagree on CO2 clean-up: Yes, we are, because everyone sees that a gas power plant cannot be based on CO2 clean-up today without the state taking the full cost. It has not been agreed by the State, and thus the conclusion is simple: if you want a gas power plant, you have to have it without cleaning at first, and then get it cleaned up as soon as it is commercially profitable, or it becomes profitable in relation to the CO2 ratios. That policy will not follow the Government. But it will be a derailment of this debate to use it as an argument in the case of the Free. The uncle searched without cleaning, yes. They got no. But they had also received no if they had sought cleaning. The same thing also got Hammerfest Energy. They applied for gas power plants with CO2 cleaning on Melkøya, and they got rejected. I challenge the Council of State to deal with these facts and say whether that's economics that's why the NVE turned down the Franc. I think the Council of State is very dishonest in its way of arguing. I challenge the Council of State to answer what was the question: Why could a dedicating a gas power plant to the base of Aukra, but not in Fränna? In France, a gas plant can be realized much faster, because the plans have been completed, the site is even excavated. It's not like that on the Aukra, which starts the opposite over again. Shell's enthusiasm for a gas power plant now after The Tent Goods is not very great. We know that in the summer of 2007, Enoxsen went out and said that the only solution to the power situation in central Norway is a gas power plant, and he proposed to spend a couple of billion dollars on it. We know his destiny. That is why this council does not dare to follow up that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e1008	In fact, I would like to call for respect for the use of words on this platform. I think we have to go a long way to be even correct with what's facts. It's very easy here to try to deceive, because there's no one outside this house that takes to disprove. The government has not said no to any concession request from Industriekraft Moore. It's the NVE who said no. NVE is neither the Government nor the Advance Party, nor the representative of any other party. Now Industrial Power Møre has sent in an appeal on this matter. That means that this matter is now on the political table. Then I see it as completely natural, as the Council of State has sometimes suggested in talks, that you have to look at the whole situation. But the government had challenged the Worm Lange drivers to assess their situation in terms of safe power availability. I think that's a very good play out, because it has to be done. I must also be allowed to correct. I kept a largely prepared article. When it came to the background that the situation is as it is in Middle Norway, I said it was past government neglect. No one was mentioned, nor was anyone forgotten. When the situation is as it is, it is absolutely necessary to guard against a lack of power affecting businesses, industry, households. That is why we were in a situation of compulsion, as the Council of State very well explained when we took over. We had to put in place an insurance scheme. It was a system that none of us -- at least the parties that sit in government -- wanted, but it became necessary. One gets so hoping that new production and other measures will make these mobile gas power plants as low as possible, if possible not in use.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e1019	I have a serious challenge in seeing the coherence of the Labour Party's energy policy. In the previous case, the Labour Party spokesperson said that the energy policy in Norway was governed by the Soria Moria Declaration, and it had to be satisfactory to a large extent. And so it is that the NVE, Norway's watercourse and energy plant, is an agency that manages energy policy in Norway on behalf of the Government. But in this case, it is said that when the NVE, based on the Soria Moria statement, says no to both the one and the other, on the basis of political signals, the desire for CO2 management, the desire to maintain protective plans, etc., the Government does not say no. If I'm going to interpret Marianne Marthinsen in the previous case, the government doesn't have any energy policy at all, because it's the NVE that has. But Asmund Kristoffersen is of a different opinion. So I'd like to get both an answer from one of the Workers' Party's representatives on who is in charge of the Workers' Party's energy policy, and who has understood and misunderstood these relationships.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e1029	Ketil Solvik-Olsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e1032	Governments have been challenged several times about concrete things, without her having answered it. I repeat that once again, so that the Council of State will not forget it until the debate is over. Why is it possible to dedicate a gas power plant to Aukra, but not to Frenna? What's the difference between the two power plants? Why has Hammerfest Energie been rejected, when it is based on CO2 cleaning? The councils made a point that it was the Progress Party and the Government that disagreed on the principle, but the NVE practice a policy on behalf of the Government, where both Fränna and Hammerfest Energie are denied even with CO2 cleaning. When you say you're going to have 3 TWh wind power realized in 2010, you're going to be up and produce 3 TWh, or is it enough that it's contractual in Enova? Another question: Does the NVE act independently of the government's signal, and is the government council satisfied with the way the NVE treats applications? And the last question: Before mobile installations were built, has the government assessed whether they should be included in full-scale facilities, as Industrial Power More wanted in relation to Statnett?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e1047	With all possible respect, there'll be something ritualous about these discussions, which we have relatively frequent. And things don't change from week to week when it comes to these questions. In the case of Industrikraft Møre, it is correct that the NVE has rejected that application. That application is in the department, with me, that appeals. That means that it would be wrong for me to go into that matter. That's the system we have for anchors. The matter is with me, I'm going to deal with it, and then the result of that treatment. We have a similar situation with Hammerfest Energy. It's also with us. That means I won't have any opinion about it until we've dealt with the matter in the department. In the case of Aukra, the answer to that is given before, and it is reasonably obvious. I have asked the licensees in Worm Lange if they can look at the possibility of creating a framework around a dedicated facility. This is, of course, a completely different situation than that which is the starting point for Industrial Power More. As I said, in the case of Industrial Power More, it's on my table, and I'm going to deal with it in a proper and proper way. So there's a question of wind and the objective of 3 TWh by 2010. What we've said, and I think is good within the range, is that we're going to have 3 TWh up and go in the sense that all of the projects that together contribute to 3 TWh, either in production, or the spade is put in the soil for production. So it's a lot more than just having an application that's accepted by Enova. It takes many years to build a wind power project. It is said that it will take some time for the projects I have set up now through the new investment aid scheme to be up and running. But we're not going to enter our target sizes if we don't have the full clarity that the projects are going on, the spade is set in the ground.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e1061	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3213]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e1079	It's a pleasure for me to address a topic that very much occupies the population in half of Norway. Unfortunately, the subject does not receive the attention it deserves and is entitled to, because it covers a very large part of the country, perhaps because it concerns a relatively small proportion of the population. In the long term, no matter how good or bad the agricultural settlement of the year may be, good and reasonable use of Norwegian forests, rivers, mountains and natural and outdoor resources is an important part of the value creation potential of Norwegian districts. That's why I'm going to travel this interpellation today. Let me repeat some of the text: ‘Private ownership and continued business opportunities in areas covered by public protection measures are subject to ongoing conflicts and uncertainties. Many landowners experience that protective measures accompany economic losses and reduced income opportunities.» This very relationship is an important contributor to the lack of legitimacy of many protections and protection processes, while increasing the organisation of value creation in protected areas will have the effect of reducing resistance to protection and increasing the localisation of protection. It is not difficult to conclude that the organisation of commercial use of protected areas should be based on a management plan. However, such plans should actually facilitate the exercise of nutrition in those protected areas where there is no obvious cross-protection. They should also be firmly anchored in local democracy. I am not convinced that the landowners and local democracy in northern Oppland are very impressed by the work done by government teams with the management plan for Rondane, which can certainly also be said about the protection of Trillemarka. It is also important to bear in mind that local knowledge can be provided by the state assimilation of people into the high-mountain areas, but this will never replace the local knowledge acquired by the outlying population through the use of the land by generations. I believe, in this context, that there are also nature conservation considerations that argue for local democracy to have a greater impact on how business can be carried out in protected areas. This does not apply only to protected areas under the Nature Conservation Act, such as national parks, landscape protected areas and nature reserves. It also applies to national salmon fjords, salmon rivers, so-called non-interventional areas and increasingly buffer zones, periphery zones, influenza zones, etc. Before I go on, I want to draw attention to St.prp. No 65 for 2002–03, where the so-called mountain text is found. The text may not be so well known to the national media, but for people, landowners and local politicians in mountainous and outlying areas in Norway, it has been presented as an important pre-miss provider for the government’s administration of Norwegian high-mountain topography since 2002. Among other things, it fights. solid: ‘But there is room for more people in the mountains, and it is desirable that more people should be given the opportunity to experience mountain nature, both for the sake of health and well-being of the individual, for the sake of economic development in the mountain communities and to create greater legitimacy for measures necessary to preserve these values.’ However, in the Questionnaire on 7 March 2007, Council of State Bjørnøy rarely doubted whether the mountain text should be used in future for the management of Norwegian high-mountain areas. This could perhaps comment on Solheim's comments. I believe that Norwegian mountain and country municipalities deserve to know if it is such that the mountain text has departed at a silent death in the Ministry of Environmental Protection. I have noted that, during the debate on the voluntary protection of Trillemarka, today's Minister for the Environment believes that there is no land-based activity, but income from protection to live on in District Norway in the future. I have to say that I have not fully understood what is in this statement, but I expect to be clear in the course of today's interpellation debate. If what's put in this, it's Lars Peder Breck in the Nation on April 17th calls «real protection compensation», I'm excited about how high such compensation must be in order that it can replace the future free use of the protected areas. Such a replacement had to be almost based on an annual and almost eternal payment. But an alternative, or rather a necessary supplement, to such substitution is nevertheless to facilitate the commercial use of the protected areas. So to what we're really talking about here: I want to take as an example the mountain areas where I am most well-known for my own part, namely the areas around Sylan, Rondane and Dovre, in the border areas between South Trendelag, Uppland and Hedmark. In the five municipalities in the Nord-Gudbrandsdalen is 56 pst. of the total area protected under the Nature Conservation Act. In the municipalities of Dovre, Skåk and Lesja is more than 70 pst. of the area protected, like in Røros. It is obvious that such conditions facilitate nutritional activities also in the protected areas as a fundamental and absolute necessity for continued residence in the area. Cabin construction in the areas outside and perhaps to some extent also in the protection areas must be an important part of such organisation. In order to substantiate this, I refer to today's economic life and Dun & Bradstreet every year, where they manage the most successful and growthable businesses in the individual counties. In Uppland and Hedmark, which are regions with low average incomes, for all the last years, their condition has been strongly influenced by tourism-oriented enterprises in general and companies engaged in the construction of cabins in particular. However, a review of the coverage of the gas industry in the current business day from October 2007 reveals that many of the managers point to the close links and interdependencies between cab construction and investment in other tourism-related industries. An example of such an enterprise is Hummelfjell in Os municipality in Hedmark, on the border of South Trundelag, where it is invested in the construction of a family farm in the mountains, with cottage village in connection with the Alpine plant. At the same time, the company builds cabins in other areas of the mountain region. In addition to the fact that the company itself keeps people in work, the turnover of local timber shops also increased by 20 pst. from 2006 to 2007 and is expected to increase as much in 2008. If cabins, the mountain text reads as follows: ‘For many Nordics, outdoor activities and access to natural experiences are the main reason for owning a cabin. Cabin life is a positive well-being that is deeply anchored in the Norwegian People's Party. It is also a good basis for making people happy in nature, thereby raising awareness and the willingness to support actions to preserve important natural and cultural heritage.’ Despite this knowledge, it may often seem that the Government is more concerned with preventing the construction of cabins in mountain areas than with facilitating such development. In Bjorli-Lesja winter sports site, located in the municipality of Lesja and outside the national park area, there is a desire to build cabins. In this case, however, the State assumes that the area of influence of the wild train extends all the way down to the highway, making any extension impossible. In Rondane, during the examination of the management plan, the State performs initially to propose that skiers should not start until 20 January. When you know that this is an area that is well visited in good time before Christmas, this becomes pointless. The County also proposes to ban organised tours in the National Park. It's mildly incomprehensible, but it also opens up some interesting issues. Does this mean, for example: that the local Scout group is not allowed to go on a trip together, but must go separately? In that case, such a prohibition would not be in line with the rights of all persons. The most paradoxical thing about this management plan is that it is the county that makes the proposal for the plan. This is what he sends as the county - which is the man of the state - to consult local people elected in municipalities and regional councils, and then next time to send his final proposal for a final decision in the Trondheim Directorate. This can in itself make it a little motivating for landowners and local politicians to work to facilitate value creation in relation to protected areas. A final example of the practice in the municipalities, I will pick up from Galdhøpiggen Sommerskisenter, which is an important part of summer tourism in Lom Municipality. The county council has, among other things, refused to move the piece of dirt a few hundred metres, given that it lies in the buffer zone of the national park. The duration of treatment has been so long as two years - in other words, two partially wound seasons. This illustrates an important general problem. Of course, specific conditions must be laid down for the use of nutrients in the protected areas adopted. This should preferably and as far as possible be done through municipal decisions. But when the state, by the state and the directorate, operates increasingly with buffer zones, edge zones, influence areas and what is now called, in my opinion, it is a democratic problem. It is assumed that many municipalities have a very high proportion of protected areas - some as much as 85 pst. - a multi-kilometre buffer zone will be completely destructive to local land management. I would strongly urge the Minister for the Environment to clean this up. If, in the course of such a process, it would be strictly necessary to extend some national parking limits through democratic decisions, I shall be involved in a dialogue on this. But bureaucratic snouts that put barriers in the way of economic development, we cannot be familiar with in a legal state. So I want to end with a philosophical consideration. The reason why the big community has found out that these areas are to be protected is precisely that those who live there from there have preserved the nature of their municipalities in an excellent way. Thanks to them, business is being made difficult or impossible, and the power of managing the land is being moved to Oslo. For comparison, 5 pst. by nature and the cultural landscape of Oslo and Akershus found to be in such good condition that they have been protected. Then I have to admit that I have a little difficulty in seeing the logic of the management of Loms and Skåk's outland areas being moved to Oslo. Finally, I will quote my question: ‘What measures will the Council of State propose to ensure that nutrition in areas affected by public protection measures remains possible?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e1135	I walk almost every day past the Old Aker church right up here. The municipal government in what was then Christiania, once in the 1800s, decided that it did not have enough value. You could just scrape it. One of the predecessors of the Advance Party, then right-wing editor in the morning newspaper, wrote at the time that we respect the Church of the Aker, but not to such an extent that we use 50 specials on it. I think the people of Oslo today are very, very happy that the predecessors of the Advancement Party did not get right at the time, but that we still have the Church of the Aker - Old Aker Church - Oslo's most beautiful church. When I start there, it's because what I'm reacting to in the Party's interplay and general policy, isn't the individual points of view. There it can be wise and unwise. But the "frame of" protection-- we don't hear a positive word about protection in general. Vern is something big, beautiful and fine, something that is incredibly important, something for which there is a broad majority in the Norwegian population, which is a great uprising in Building Norway. After all, many people live in the districts because they are especially happy and have love for nature. That's why they've chosen to live there. Let's start by saying that protection is important. And then there are some conflicts around what we're going to solve. If the Progress Party could once be allowed to say something nice about protection, something about what it has meant for Norway and the rest of the world, I would at least have a starting point on which we could discuss. Let me also say that protection is incredibly important to achieve the international goals we have set. We want other countries to take care of their species diversity. Norway must take care of its diversity of species. We will stop the eradication of Norwegian species by 2010. It's not a decision that you can say exactly and certainly when you do. But if we're going to be able to do this, we need a considerable amount of protection, and then we have to deal with the conflicts around it and look at both benefits and disadvantages. 14.3 pst. by mainland Norway. We want to ensure a representative sample of Norwegian nature as protected areas, and there is a large and broad uprising about this both in the Stortinget and in the population, not least in the districts. The interpellant is, of course, entitled to combine protection with looking at the economic potential of it and, of course, to allow the use of the head in the protection policy. It is not that once you have protected an area, it stops any economic activity in this area. We have different types of protection, and the way you protect it depends on what is the very purpose of the protection. The purpose of protection is the starting point, and then you can see how from that point of view you can get the most economic and other activity around it. The so-called mountain text, which the interpellant draws forward, was presented by a government that had the Advance Party as its parliamentary basis. It contains a lot of sensibleness, and I see no reason whatsoever for this government to go away from essential elements in it. There's just talk about the combination I'm looking for: the importance of protecting the uniqueness of the Norwegian mountain nature and the importance of being able to create employment and value creation in mountain areas. The government has set up a separate action plan for the sustainable use, management and care of protected areas. This plan provides an important basis for the further work of the Government to look at various measures to promote sustainable economic development and value creation linked to protected areas. Secondly, the Ministry of the Environment now has a natural heritage value creation programme in full-time work. The value creation programme for the cultural heritage, or cultural memories, was established in 2006. That programme shall contribute to projects and activities which can demonstrate that classical nature protection actually pays off to the community, thereby contributing to the necessary local anchoring and acceptance of the protection tank. The proposal was widely supported in the consultation of the report and details of this programme will be submitted to the Stortinget later. Thirdly, the Government, in close cooperation between the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Industry and Trade, is working on a tourism strategy presented in 2007, where sustainable tourism with natural and cultural landscapes is a key element. This brings experiences, this is important for people, but it is also a good basis for income in many districts. One of the measures of the travel strategy is to launch a review with selected municipalities to look at the possibility of using national parks and, where appropriate, other areas protected by the Nature Conservation Act in the context of travel life. Another action is to establish a network of experience and competences for local and regional authorities that will test nature and cultural park projects. Fourth, in February 2008, the Ministry of the Environment granted 23 municipalities the status of national park municipalities and five agglomerations as national park villages. These will receive a trademark-protected logo as proof of their status and to assist in the marketing of the sites. The aim is to strengthen the value creation of municipalities and local communities based on the value of national parks as a quality stamp on wilderness nature. Let me also add to this point that there was a lot of competition about this. It was not the case that these municipalities wanted to defend themselves against the protection and keep it a secret. On the contrary, they were very pleased to be able to market the fact that the area of their municipality was protected, as a basis for attracting tourists and other additional activities. In extending this, we should look into whether we can't achieve more with regard to positions in the administration, care and preparedness of the protection areas. In the case of Trillemarka, which is one of the interpellant's affairs, we have a good dialogue with the three municipalities concerned, the two Numedal municipalities and Sigdal, about how we are just going to get the combination of a protection, to which they have been skeptical in these cases, that's right, with the possibility of using it in travel life contexts and a number of other contexts that can bring benefits to the rural communities. So I would like to mention that I have seen that the interpellant and others from the Progress Party have several times come up with some sort of criticism of what I said at an earlier time in Stortinget, about the large and significant cash flow that can lie in protection, for District Norway, and almost tried to set this up against all the other things you need in District Norway. Anyone who knows Norwegian districts knows that one of the most typical things is that a lot of people run in different combinations to generate income on different bases. There may be two incomes in a family from different industries, but there are also many people like this. combines a teacher's profession with gardening or fishing activities with other establishments. This has been the case in Norway for thousands of years, combining different forms of nutrition to obtain income. I see nothing wrong with the idea of combining the traditional industries such as agriculture and fishing with modern industries such as industry, and even more modern industries such as tourism, data activities or what it might be. You have to look at these different potential cash flows to District Norway as a whole. They can reinforce each other. It's e.g. if the cultural landscape is not claimed, it must necessarily be done by farmers, it is also not necessarily attractive for tourism, nor does it provide the basis for the local coffee shop, the local cooperative club or the local pension fund. Cultural landscapes, nature conservation, travel life and these things are very, very close together. We go into a period of time when many of the support schemes that have been traditionally heavy in Norwegian districts can hardly be maintained in exactly the same way. Then we have to be constantly looking for new opportunities to strengthen the settlement in District Norway. I wonder that the Progress Party looks so defensively at this, instead of seeing the great possibilities: how a combination of different types of nutritional basis can just give the living districts that we want. Finally, I would like to say that the interpellant draws up a number of single examples of what he thinks are unfortunate effects of protection. I have no prerequisite for going into each of them. However, as a general comment, I would say that it is not possible at any time to create a rule from the accumulation and government that does not require the use of the head in addition. No matter how well-regulated we adopt here, people in District Norway and anywhere else who want to practice that protection must go forward in such a way that you simply use your head. It's not all as important of big and small. A modest, practical approach to handling, talking to people in a rural community and looking at how to make things slip in the best possible way, is the best approach to combining the great protection we have, the new protection to come, with an understanding that makes people in the countryside feel good about this and can make more money on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e1169	Let me start by saying that I think we can immediately establish that this interview debate is worth the time we're going to spend on it. I am very pleased that the Council of State states that the main elements of the mountain text are also fixed in the future. That we are produced as being descendants after the Right, I take a great distance from that, and hope that it is in the Minutes. In relation to commenting on individual cases, I have a great deal of understanding that the Council of State cannot do that. What I tried to challenge was the principle of who draws the line for where the protection should go, and that it must be done on the basis of technical advice from the Directorate of Nature Management, the counties, etc., etc. But my concern is that it must be us here in the Stortinget and the Council of State, who must answer for the Storting, who must decide where the limit of protection should go, and that it should not more or less be done after a bureaucrat's own discretion in Norwegian states. So the council says that it's the love of nature that makes you choose to live there. Yes, for many Dutch people who have moved to parts of Norway recently, this is the most likely reason they have moved there. But it's still true that large parts of the alien population live there because their families have lived there for generations after generations. In relation to Trillemarka-Rollagsfjell, there has certainly been very little involvement from both the Progress Party and, for that matter, the Center Party against the Protection of Rollagsfjell, which is the attractive tourist area. Being able to develop some significant tourist industries related to the review in Trillemarka, I am somewhat more in doubt if you can, but I wish the Council of State the best of luck with that project. So to this, traditional industries are also a prerequisite for maintaining the settlement. This is an important prerequisite for one of the most surplus traditional industries in Norway, namely the forest industry, the timber industry, the paper industry, etc. Last year, 54 km of forest road was built. It has never been built so little forest road ever. I guess that's something that's worth taking with me. So to the Dovre Mountain Council at Dovre. This is also a concrete example, but I hope the Council knows about it. The Dovreberg Council, which consists of members of the municipalities and counties around Dovreberg, has thus been empowered to manage the protection areas of the Dovrefjell-Sunndalsbergella. This project is about to be evaluated and completed. Does the Council of State consider that there is a reasonable way to manage Norwegian outland and protected areas by attaching such advice to a high level of power and authority?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e1184	I have noticed that it is still a long way within the Progress Party to say something positive about protection, but now leave it. I hope it will come later in the debate. But in general, we don't disagree. It is clear that we must have professionally based guidelines provided by the Stortinget, practiced by the Government and by various agencies, and then it must be combined with a local dialogue and the use of common sense at local level. What that means in practice in the individual case, of course, is impossible for me to go into here. I notice that the interpellant wants to make it easier to build cabins in different parts of Norway. I also get a flow of enquiries with the opposite aim, that it is believed that this has now taken over, that very important parts of Norwegian nature are built down by cabins in an uncontrolled way, and that one should consider whether the municipalities should not make much more local plans to ensure that the cabin building is done more properly than it does today. What I'm concerned about is establishing a policy in this area where we get important new protection, but protection that is acceptable to a majority of the inhabitants of the country and that has the support of a majority. I refuse to divide humanity in the way that anyone does. I remember being at the National Government Meeting of the Federation of Nature Conservation for a while back, and there was a speaker who basically divided the Nordics into two groups. One consisted of such as himself--and it was possible he included me in that group--and there were people who were real happy in nature, they had great love for nature and had the right leisure attraction and wanted to walk quietly around in District Norway and listen to birds and look at flowers. The other part consisted of those who want to run as far as possible around in snowmobiles, fighting as much as possible, making as much noise as possible and hell--apologies--making problems out in nature and just making spittles. I think that a large part of the population lies between these groups. They want us to take care of important parts of Norwegian nature. They want more protection. All studies show that there is a great deal of upsurge in the protection tank in Norway, but they want it to be done in a modest way that will allow it to be accepted in the districts, so that you can get substantial entrepreneurial income from it, and that you use common sense in the many large and small questions that are raised. What I'm after is a tough, strict and long-term protection policy, but practiced in such a way that we have people with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e1195	Since the Council of State apologized for using an unparliamentary expression, the President shall allow it to pass.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e1198	I think the interpellation and arguments about protection from the Progress Party show a little bit about the true face of the Advance Party. It's actually -- it's at least my opinion from the debate so far -- that they put any consideration aside in terms of private ownership, or that protection should not contain any kind of restrictions. That's what comes to expression through this interpolation. Then I think it will be difficult for the Progress Party to fulfil the hope and wish here today of the Council of State to say something positive about protection itself. I guess that's going to be completely impossible. But this is primarily about taking responsibility, both locally, nationally and not least internationally, as pointed out by the Minister for the Environment. We have responsibilities in relation to nature, biodiversity and aesthetics, but we also have a responsibility for opportunities for experience and recreation, and not least - perhaps one of the most important things - it is also about availability in future issues of protection. The protection is directed primarily at unique natural areas, with unique values, and in it there is a significant potential, at my discretion, attached to the protection. Although the protection itself is disputed when it is to be introduced, I think it can also be easily recognised that after the protection has been introduced, it offers opportunities for nutrition development and nutrition; though perhaps not at the same level and within the same genre, at least it offers greater opportunities in many contexts. These are tourism, tourism, experience-based tourism, recreation and not least the natural experiences themselves. Not necessarily in the protection area itself, but in relation to the protection areas, these are important activities that underpin new industries with significant potential. In the context of the Government’s presentation of the draft law on new planning and building laws, one of the themes is addressed in a positive way, in a way that also includes the opportunities offered by protected areas for the development of nutrition in the protected areas. So the interpellant says that one of the reasons why protection is implemented is that the areas are well managed by the owner. Yeah, lucky for you, it's been like this. But the strong desire for, for example, cabin construction around the areas to be protected is not a negligible factor, leading to a massive pressure in those areas. It is perhaps the main issue today that leads to an intensified pressure in many important areas for us. So then, the cabin geometry that Lien highlighted, in a way, has also become a problem. This is about both safeguarding the value of protection; it is about ensuring availability and the possibilities of experience and recreation. I can mention a small example from my own municipality, where both the municipality and the private over time have developed a great area of experience and recreation and good things for the public. Once the area has become attractive, the cabin building begins, which in a way sets aside both the accessibility of the public, the natural values, the possibilities of experience, etc. So that's the balance point it's important to take care of. That's what this government does in a good way. One has done so through the safeguards contained in that period. One does it through the protective regulations that come for the Trillemark. One does so, not least by means of the bill that is now available in connection with the Planning and Building Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e1211	I think it's an interesting thing. I myself have been following a number of coniferous and watercourse protection matters closely, and I have often seen how hard-handed the authorities are, and how difficult it can be for many landowners in this country. I am also, probably together with many landowners, a little frightened that the Council of State has now announced a new round of, among other things. coniferous protection. We know from the past that the level of conflict is often very high between protection authorities and landowners. Some people I've talked to believe that land protection can be regarded as an infringement of private ownership, and see it almost as a state confiscation for private land. I should like to point out that, as I say, national policy decisions on protection have often led to the greatest disgust and resistance of both landowners and local politicians in the areas that are and are affected by protection - whether watercourse protection or congested protection - and that this protection often has adverse nutritional consequences locally. I will deal with one example, which I think is quite grotesque, and which also shows the bleakness of the Great Britain for both property rights, local democracy and local interests, namely the Tovdal River, which was protected in 2005. The thing was that almost all the municipalities involved were strongly opposed to the extension of this protection. Nevertheless, despite all the protests from local teams, the bulk of the population chose to protect the watercourse, including the entire impact field. With the protective plan adopted for the Tovdal watercourse, a whole series of good mini- and small-power plant plans had to be ironed out for good. For this peripheral, the Tovdalen, which had sorely needed to exploit this type of business, among other things. strengthening the settlement, it became almost a tragedy. Authorisation for the construction of small-scale power plants has been applied for even after this protection was introduced into the watercourse. In the case of an example that I know well about, they've been fighting for seven-eight years to build an environmentally friendly small power plant in a slightly vulnerable place, but they've had a rejection. The small power plant I'm talking about here was also supposed to be the very life base for a farm where a newly established family with husband, wife and three children had moved in. Because of the protection and refusal from the NVE, the family is now probably moving away from the farm. So five people leave this rural area as sheltered refugees into the city. The result of Norwegian protection policy is that we have almost received protection refugees. Watercourse protection in this case depopulates the countryside, and there is poor district policy. There is a clear need to soften the protection against watercourses in establishing smaller power plants also in sheltered watercourses. Most types of protection in Norway are, as I said, a serious interference with private property rights. When protection destroys people's livelihoods out in District Norway, there is an unacceptable abuse in a legal state such as Norway. The Party of Progress is strongly skeptical of coercive protection, whether it is water protection or coniferous protection. If we get to decide, at least I'll fight to protect only where there's not a high level of conflict, and new protection will only take place through full voluntarity. It is also, as the Constitution requires, to be provided with full financial compensation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e1224	I think it is timely that the Stortinget discusses this theme that the interpellant addresses today. I also think that the Council of State has a pragmatic approach to the challenges and conflicts that protection and use naturally provide. If we are to succeed in the process of convergence, we must say, as the Council of State also does, that the answer is that protection is important and that it is likely to become even more important in the future. It's probably going to be more future than the case before, to be asked about how we've been dealing with individual situations. We are discussing many conflict-affected issues. There is no doubt that, in the case of large-scale protection, the right to rule from local to central level is being transferred at the same time. It is important in the future to spend even more time and to go even further into the problem of these communities, which the big community is required to take on the pressures that protection brings, to see how the big community can, at the same time, be more involved in and compensate for the disadvantages that this naturally brings. I think that, to an even greater extent, as the Right has previously suggested, we need to identify which municipalities in the country have been largely linked to their areas. We need to develop categories for this type of municipalities, not all are the same. We must not generalise and create a common policy for the whole country, because the country is very different. We also need to be able to establish guidelines on how we and the big community can contribute positively in municipalities that are given large areas of land on a short-term basis, and also to create a system of compensation for communities and regions that are proven to lose income as a result of strong ties. An example is the municipality of Saltdal, a neighboring municipality of my home municipality. In fact, there are several nature reserves in the municipality. There are seven areas of landscape protection and there are two national parks. ==References== 65 pst. the area of the municipality is fully protected. Probably, the municipality is missing out on tens of millions of income. The big community has said no, for example, to the Kjemåva stretching. We can certainly do that, from different points of view, in retrospect, was right in time, but it is proven that the municipality is missing out on jobs and large revenues as a result of this protection. Then it's a little sad to see the lack of local understanding. It's natural to understand that when you see the income you miss, and that the big community doesn't compensate anymore, and makes things better, there's going to be a conflict. Then it becomes very easy to do as one of the government parties did at the last big shot, they went to the election to exercise a protective break. I recorded that the party collected relatively large uprisings on it. I'm not sure you're going out so fresh next time. I think maybe the Council of State should take care of the failure to launch a big message on how the big community can create greater understanding, be able to better facilitate activities and developments in nature use, travel, etc. in those municipalities which are proven to lose major activities. It's a little sore to look at the national parks we have around the country -- one of them we have in Junkerdal -- that live from hand to mouth. We must do something about this if we are to obtain political acceptance in order to bring about a rapprochement in the national Parliament in order to move forward with the protection plans and measures that will certainly be necessary for the future. I also think there are many good examples of how to take advantage of the protection for something positive. As far as the Telemark wild reindeer is concerned, I hope that the Department will follow up and further develop the local plans, which can help to restore some compensation, and that the understanding and ability of the big community to use nature can be more widely used as the example's power to delight both large communities and communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e1237	The goal of Norway to secure the biological deficiency is well anchored in a broad political plurality in this house. We have a commitment to that through international agreements, and that's what most parties have committed themselves to to the voters through their party programmes. Protect is one of the states' tools to achieve this goal. In the opinion of the Centre Party, good administration is the best protection. This is evident when the Riksrevision points to the loss of protection values in our protected areas, and it is not strange when the care that has previously gone naturally to the area is gone. Builders, through the resilient management of nature in our country through generations, have maintained a diverse cultural landscape and thus helped to facilitate a greater biological deficiency than had been the case without the cultural landscape. Today, the scattered busses and the resilient administrations are still holding large areas of cultural landscapes in claim, although we now feel that both the area and the spectrum of nature types are being reduced. We have to recognise that the work and responsibility for ensuring biological deficiency divides differently between municipalities and landowners around our country. Some of them are strongly covered by protection. Municipalities that have, or have, large parts of their protected area, in isolation make a relatively greater effort than other municipalities in order to meet the national target of biological deficiency seen in this room. It is important that we, as regulators, follow up these municipalities and the landowners involved by facilitating the development of nutrition in and around protected areas that can make it possible to have a way of living in these areas in the future as well. This is an important measure to ensure that municipalities and local populations are involved in the protection processes, so that both challenges and opportunities with protection become clear. Protection must be followed up with mandatory plans in the case of care. We in the Centre Party are pleased that the Government has already announced in the Government Declaration the Action Plan for the Sustainable Use, Management and Management of National Parks and other Protected Areas, and has also made it clear that efforts to develop national parks as a resource for local communities and local value creation will continue. In its articles, the Council of State also highlighted some of the measures being taken in this area. The centre party would stress that an important premise for us is that protection should be based to the greatest extent possible on voluntary and local participation. We believe that voluntary protection is an important measure, not only to take care of the interests of municipalities and landowners who have areas of high protection value, but also, not least, to provide protection policy and work to ensure biodiversity legitimacy in the population. No one's lit up with centralized protection processes where local people's opinions are being outrun. Finally, in a similar case in the fall, a collective committee put itself behind a comment that said: ‘The Committee considers that, although there will still be a need for more protection, it is important to combine protection in terms of local economic development and living conditions. We must ensure local anchoring and support for the protection work.» It shows that the Storting Group is signalling a direction in this policy area and may be more gathering on this issue than the interpellant suggested.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e1255	I want to start my post by saying something about why we're really protecting, because based on the interpellation that's traveled, you'd think there was something you were driving because you thought it was fun to have a bully with District Norway, and it's actually not like that. The size has decided that we should stop the eradication of biodiversity by 2010, and then territorial protection is a key pillar. Over the last 150 years, at least 103 species have been eradicated in our country, according to the Norwegian Nature Conservation Association. In fact, the number is much higher. The species database reports that in Norway, 1 988 species are classified as threatened. The number of species that die out has increased in modern times and the speed of this process is much higher than that which can be characterised as natural. It has been assumed that human activity and influence are an important cause of this. Today, changing use of areas and areas, including expansion, is the greatest threat to biodiversity. Other important influencing factors are pollution, climate change, taxation and the spread of alien species. Often several of these factors work together, giving a complex threat picture. This increases the risk of extinction. Some species, for example: only in few or small areas and are particularly vulnerable if their habitats are to disappear. There is a great deal of excitement about the protection plan policy in Norway, as Erik Solheim said in the meantime, if we look at the treatment of protection issues in the United Kingdom through own communications, such as the National Park Notice, and the regularly submitted notifications elsewhere. The individual safeguard decisions set limits on the types of activities that may be permitted within the protection area. A key element is that greater, heavier measures must be located outside the protection areas but that the protection areas should be able to form the arena for activities within the scope of the protection objective. In other words, protection is not the same as the absence of the possibility of activities. It is government policy that protection areas should be a local community resource and provide a basis for local value creation where conditions allow. For example, Norwegian mountain nature shall: both as a source of outdoor life, recreation and natural and cultural experiences, while at the same time providing a basis for employment and value creation in mountain areas, but an ecosystem approach must be adopted to the administration. A separate action plan has been established for the sustainable use, management and care of protected areas. The Ministry of Environment is also working on a natural heritage value creation programme to contribute to projects and activities, which can demonstrate that classical nature protection can actually pay off to the community, thus contributing to local anchoring and acceptance of nature protection. The proposal received broad support in the consultation round, and it will be exciting to follow it on. One of the measures of the 2007 Travel Life Strategy is to look at opportunities for the use of national parks and, where appropriate, other areas protected by the Nature Conservation Act in the context of travel life. In February this year, the Ministry of the Environment gave 23 municipalities the status of a national park municipality and five towns were given the status of a national park village. The aim is to strengthen the value creation of municipalities and communities as a result of the value of national parks. At least I experience a pride in those who have received this kind of status. There is a lot of work to be done on the issue of instruments in the Government. It's clearly unfortunate when protection is perceived as so negative that all the enthusiasm for taking care of nature disappears. I think that challenge is three-thirds. Firstly, we must have good instruments, including economic ones, that give local communities an understanding of the protection policy. It is important to involve local communities in the processes and to provide reasonable levels of flexibility. My soul has proposed an environmental fund that could strengthen the role of the Ministry of the Environment in the protection processes. Secondly, we need to increase our understanding of the value of nature in itself. We have a responsibility to manage nature in a sustainable way. After all, we're all on this earth only for a short time, and so the question of protection also has a clear ethical side. Thirdly, as politicians, as Erik Solheim pointed out earlier this year, we need to think about how we can help not to maximize these conflicts. It's important how we talk about this question, whether we light up during the conflicts, and whether we just choose to emphasize the negative aspects. It is a fact that different forms of protection can provide a large potential flow of income to the future of District Norway. In many places in Europe, we see this trend, and it will certainly be more important in Norway as well. Many are proud of the nature they have been protected, and see how important it is both as a source of income and as a reminder that some things cannot be priced. It's just too valuable. It's funny that many municipalities struggle to be declared a national park municipality. Saying that protection is something you're affected by is therefore a speculative and one-sided description, which only helps to light up during conflicts. At least I'm going to listen to not only those who think protection can be problematic locally -- because I understand that -- but also try to dampen some of the conflicts and also contribute constructively.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e1289	The left believes that land protection is important to ensure biodiversity, important natural values, viable ecosystems and a rich open-air life. Protection also provides opportunities for industrial development. We have seen a number of examples of increased interest in ecotourism and activities in areas with high natural value also in Norway. Economic activities and activities in and in relation to protected areas not at the expense of the protection value give important legitimacy to the protection. It can also provide jobs and value creation beyond what was potential before the protection came into place. In that case, it is positive. Nearly half of the approximately 3000 species currently included in the national red list of endangered species live in forests, and many of the species depend on relatively old and nearly non-interventional natural forests. The left believes that the protection work must be strengthened. This is good environmental policy, and can be good industrial policy if strongly enough. Voluntary protection was also an important strategy for increasing forest protection under the Bondevik II government. Through voluntary protection, conflicts with local communities and interested landowners may be minimised. The left wants to continue work on voluntary protection where it can properly protect the values. This requires sufficient resources to compensate the landowners who make their property available. These include: Ivar Kristiansen was inside his post, showing that compensation is one of the foundations of volunteering, which is extremely important to mitigate the level of conflict. The left is also concerned that the Government and government parties in this large-scale period have cut heavily in the appropriations for forest protection over the budgets. It stands in stark contrast to what the government parties promised when they joined, namely that they would increase the stake in the area. Once again, we have an example of an area of environmental policy where the government and government parties say they should increase their efforts, and they do the opposite. In order to contribute to the development of industry and the restoration of values related to protected areas, the Left wants an action plan and an offensive policy for the sustainable use and care of national parks and other protected areas. It must be organised for tourism based, inter alia, on: cultural and natural experiences and outdoor activities. It's e.g. the importance of increasing the efforts in the labelling of loops, the drawing up of maps, the prudent organisation and increased accessibility of the protection areas concerned by, for example, upgrading surrounding access routes. The level of conflict associated with the protection of sites may also be reduced when local participation and participation are included in this work. I would like to conclude by reminding you that, in the context of the current year's state budget, an overall energy and environmental committee concluded to present itself with a separate case on the sustainable use, management and care of Norwegian protected areas. The Committee pointed out that the protection areas have received increased attention in the context of tourism development and nature-based value creation. In this context, the Committee was committed to contributing to the development of protection areas as a local community resource and for, inter alia, local value creation. also to mitigate the level of conflict.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e1304	One who has biological education has the greatest respect for biodiversity. It's very difficult for us as humans to understand and see all the relationships that are in nature, and how that whole thing is, so understand the ecosystem. We're far from understanding it, and so it's very important to do what you can to ensure the survival of the species, which is what's called biodiversity. At the same time, you never have to lose sight of the fact that there are processes that are constantly changing. This means that stopping biodiversity eradication is more complicated in practice than it may seem. A number of the changes that happen to biodiversity have their basis in natural assumptions that we can difficult to do with. So there's a bunch of things that we can't really do with, while there's a part that we can do with. A good part of biodiversity depends on its use, for example: in the case of agriculture. A number of species depend on light. It requires that you get light down to the field, and that you have a cut of the forest that ensures it. That's why it's central to the Center Party that you have that base with you. It's like it's said here: it's not the absence of all activities, but what must be absent is irreversible intervention. Intervention in nature, in the sense of human activity, such as conservation of nature, are activities that in many cases can be beneficial to biodiversity. That's why it's central that you have it with you. However, we see in a lot of safeguards that there is just the use of the land, the harvesting of photosynthesis energy, which is being restricted, while human activity, in the form of human inflows, which causes many times as much stress on nature, increases when you get a number of protective items. It's a problem that you have to go much deeper into. The richness of nature is at several levels a major source of wealth in human lives. More than most occupational groups, farmers have been concerned with understanding and adapting to the laws and contexts of nature. Without it, you wouldn't have a sustainable way of life. For the sake of human beings, we must protect nature's resources, for example. the diversity of species. But I'm opposed to the fact that an increasingly large part of the country is being protected by the cheese plug principle, and I have so much knowledge of processes and contexts in nature that I see the unprecise and professionally unsustainable in the statement maintaining a natural diversity of species, as I mentioned. The diversity of species is constantly changing without human intervention. Current climate change alone leads to dramatic changes in species diversity. Some rainforest areas have national value, in particular as reference areas. However, it is misleading to believe that the country would be of particular value as a jungle. Also as a tourist destination is Norway as a cultural landscape that is the major resource. Without farmers who intervene in nature and operate on a planned basis, Norway grows again. The one-sided protection policy, with centralised state administration of the protection areas, undermines the economy and living conditions of rural areas, and pushes large sections of the population beyond the country into a taper position. Through generations of experience, the rural population has learned that we must live with nature in order to live on it. Likewise, we know that conservation does not provide living settlements. Without nourishment and economic activity, people will move, and the community in the countryside will die out. We also know that this development is not natural. It depends on our own actions, not least on the policies that create conditions for how we can act. How we make conditions for those who manage the land to act is crucial for how to manage this diversity. This is a Community interest. There are many who are concerned with justice and solidarity, and that we are in the same boat and have to stand together. That's what this Norwegian project is about, and that's what's now in a critical phase, for many of those who are in a value conservation tradition, for example in Trillemarka, feel that the extensive hand that you entered is not accepted, and you're told that your agriculture, your forestry, it's no longer true. Your role is now touristic, and it will lead to a completely different activity in the area that will weaken biodiversity over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e1319	This will never happen in either a financial debate or a nutrition debate, but I have to say that I am very much behind the posts of the representative Lundtägen. Let me further reassure the Council of State that protection can be good. I am absolutely sure that almost untouched nature can be a good sales argument, and that you can manage to market Norway as a tourist destination as well as then, of course, try to keep the high-mountain topography in part of Norway where you have the last wild breeds in the world, that must be an important goal. What's also important, and I'm trying to figure out, is that local democracy and landowners must be taken seriously in the processes that lead to protection, and then in the management of the same processes, for example. as has been done on Dovreberg, where a significant part of the area of protection has been allocated to local politicians. Then I have to comment on some of the other posts that have been since I was in the pulpit last. No Marte Thorkildsen says that the use of land leads to extinction. It was also the representative of Lundtegen. The absence of land use also leads to loss of diversity of species, some forest or meadow, mowing land, etc. There's not always SV is busy talking about that kind of thing. I believe that both agriculture and forestry have an important role to play in the outback in Norway for many years - perhaps in the future. In 2007, as I said, 54 km of forest roads were built, which does not indicate any offensive commitment to the type of commercial activity in the districts either. Tourism in the outlying areas is important. It's coming, and we have to make that right. It could be mountain tourism. It may be salmon tourism, or there may be a wide range of different types of tourism. In that picture also belongs to the cabin building. It is not difficult to understand that it needs to be controlled and regulated, but I think we need to facilitate cabin construction in the future. It's an important part of an outland-based business. There will be more and more people in Norway. If we're going to follow the rhetoric of Terje Aasland, that means that the Workers' Party believes that while 25 pst. of the population of Norway who had previously been able to own a cabin, in the future there will be something of a small upper class in Norway. It doesn't sound like a very social democratic policy. Then I'd like to comment on what the Council said about two types of people. I'm both a snowmobileman and an outdoorsman. I've been going to visit Storsylen, Snow Hat, Forolhogna and Reinsfjellet this summer. I invite you to join me on a mountain trip, both in protected and unprotected mountain areas in the Dovreberg area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e1338	Then we'll see if the council accepts the invitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e1341	I think the debate went ahead when the Progress Party in the last article said that ‘protection may be good’. At least then we have come a little step in the right direction in this debate. I would like to take a mountain trip with the interpellant at an appropriate time. What is on my agenda this summer is mountain trip with Jens, Prime Minister, to the Hallingskarvet in connection with the opening of the National Park there. I like to take a lot -- I think it could be nice -- a mountain trip with the interpellant as well. I don't think the Labour Party is going to take a cabin from a single person in Norway. I think people can relax in that area. There are no cabins to be taken from anyone, as it could be suggested as here. I just want to make some comments on the debate. Marte Thorkildsen and several others have been out to mitigate conflicts. The same thing has been true of the Right and several others. I think that's very important. It is one of the things we would like the Progress Party to do - not to inflate any possible conflict related to protection anywhere in the country, but to try to mitigate the conflicts. If you think that protection can be good, it could be a starting point for trying to mitigate conflicts. The government has said very clearly, as Erling Sande had in mind, that voluntary protection is the main line of protection. I think it is possible to get a lot of voluntary protection, partly on state grounds and partly on private grounds, in cooperation with the landowners. Ivar Kristiansen made a very interesting post about just the connection we must have between an offensive protection policy with local anchoring and a sense of protection, so that people locally feel that their attitude to protection is heard. That's what we're trying to do. Let's go a long way to think about it. The starting point must be that it does not affect the value of protection itself, but within that framework we must try to achieve a better localization of all protection. Money will be an important tool there. I'm meeting support from the Storting in the budget draw that we're going to go into. Of course, I want to get more money to the National Park Centres and some of the other issues that have been mentioned. I also agree with Mr Lundteg. If it hadn't been human activity in Norway, we would have had rough forest and some ice in the whole country. It would give an incredibly much less biological variation in this country than the consequences of the country being used. Many of the protection values in Norway are related to use, for example: Scared. There are many species that do not exist elsewhere. There are even special species in places where roads are built. So a number of the species we have are related to the human use of the land. Therefore, there is a combination of the protection of cultural values and the protection of natural values that will give us the best protection policy in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e1356	The debate on substance is closed. 4 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e1372	This interpellation was received during a study trip in November with the World Bank parliamentary forum for Cambodia on the importance of agriculture in the fight against poverty. In the area of Vietnam, Laos, Cambodia and Thailand, hundreds of thousands of targets are to be transplanted from rice to cassava or majok. Cassawa is also a food plant, but the replanting occurs because it is sold as biofuel at a significantly better price. This gives a significant boost to the value of the country’s agricultural production. In this sense, the numbers indicate success. Behind the figures in the communities concerned, history is quite different. For generations the numerous small rice fields have been cultivated by peasant families in small villages. Unfortunately, property rights legislation has been poorly developed. When the market for biofuels offers significantly higher prices than rice, it has resulted in extensive land grabbing from large companies and investors. As a result, the local farmer loses the earth. As a result, the main food, which is rice, disappears, and it ends with further poverty in the village or, finally, in the big city slum. At the same time, rice growing area is reduced and rice prices are rising. After Christmas I collected background material on the theme in view of the interpellation. When it was submitted just two months ago, the matter was about to become global and sporadic in the headlines of the world press, as in the editorial of the Financial Times of 26 February: «Biofuels will not feed the hunger.» The interpellant debate had to be postponed for one month. In the meantime, the matter has increased from fresh breeze to full storm, and the dust has exploded. I'll try to give you a summary. There are many factors that contribute to the high food prices. Some are structural and long-term; others are acute. These are mainly wheat, maize and rice as basic elements of the daily diet of large parts of the earth’s population. First of all. Demand is rising. The population of the earth is increasing, and the economic development of large countries such as China and India is fortunately raising millions from poverty to increased purchasing power. The diet is more like our own: more cereal products, but also more meat. They want, like us, housing, car and steak. Bovine animals eat a lot of cereal products. ==References== 700 calories of animal feed correspond to a 100 calorie steak. Second of all. Sky-high oil prices increase the food price. In particular, it costs transport and petrochemical fertilisers. The large new economies also significantly increase the demand for fuel, and the high level of prices can be long-term. Thirdly. Significant agricultural subsidies in particular in the United States and Europe make it less profitable for some developing countries to invest in agricultural development. Thus, their potential is poorly exploited. Assistance programmes are under-prioritising agricultural development, which helps poor countries to be less self-sufficient than they could otherwise be. The availability of cereal products was stable for so many years that many countries built up their traditional national cereal stocks. In the current situation, more cereal producing countries are restricting exports in order to secure new stocks. In such a market one also sees that speculators are exacerbating the crisis. Fourthly. In 2007, the situation has been exacerbated by poor yields in large and important cereal-producing countries, such as the United Kingdom. Australia. Abnormal droughts or floods have affected many agricultural countries in recent years. Whether this is the outcome of long-term climate change remains to be seen. In this case, it is also part of the long-term causal relationship. Finally, for the fifth. At the top of these factors comes the effect of conversion to large-scale biofuel production. The sources disagree here, but in the middle of the tree, the IMF believes that the use of cereal products for biofuels constitutes approximately. 20 pst. of the increase in food prices in the last few years. What's the relationship? The Cambodian example is typical of replanting at the expense of traditional food. The connection to non-guarantee of ownership was grotesque. At other places the same products are grown as before, e.g. maize, but they end up in the fuel tank instead of in the mouth and stomach. Consumer groups behind fuel demand have significantly more purchasing power than the hungry consumers, and when large western countries simultaneously subsidise biofuel production, they lose their hunger. The biofuel debate is partly very unhealthy and also difficult. I don't have time to go deep into the question of biofuels and climate change. Here the opinions are strongly shattering. It is clearly essential for the environmental impact of the types of crops used and essential for the displacement of rainforests or other significant CO2 reserves. With today’s solutions, the climate effect appears to be best addressed with sugar cane grown in Brazil on areas already cultivated or on open plains where other production is not being displaced. However, due to international markets, the consequences are often complicated. Time Magazine illustrates this on 14 April with the following example: 20 pst. of the corn crop of the United States is now distilled into subsidised ethanol. The demand sends the corn price on the roof. Traditional soybean producers in the United States are therefore adding to better paid maize, and soybean prices on the world market are rising due to decreasing offers. It makes Brazil’s farmers expand soybean production at the expense of grazing land, which the ranchers compensate for through the peak of CO2 storage rainforests and the opening of new pastures. Time adds that the amount of corn that's going to fill the tank of a SUV with ethanol corresponds to food for one person in 365 days - i.e., for a whole year - and that 3 million targets of Brazilian rainforest were lost only in the last six months last year. How serious is the crisis? ‘This is a silent tsunami’ says CEO Josette Sheeran of the United Nations World Food Programme, WFP. It is a mixture of hunger, malnutrition, malnutrition and poverty. Poor country middle class cuts out health care and meat. The average poor with two dollars a day takes the kids out of school and lives on rice, while they with one dollar a day suck everything to get a bowl of rice a day. For those with less than $1 day, it's hopeless. The WFP believes that approx. One billion people live on 1 dollar a day. If the food price increases by 20 pst, at least 100 million will fall into this group. In some countries, this means that ten years of strenuous poverty reduction can be lost. At the London Summit on 23 April, the UN Secretary-General said that the rise in food prices threatens to undermine the Millennium Goal to halve the world’s poverty by 2015. This explains recent riots and violent demonstrations in many countries in several parts of the world, and that countries such as Cambodia, China, Vietnam, India and Pakistan have reduced or stopped rice exports to ensure the domestic market. What must be done? In the short term, food must be provided for those who starve. In the long term, world society needs to find common solutions to change the structural problems. The price of rice has doubled in just the past six weeks. The World Bank estimates that food prices have risen by 83 pst. in three years. The WFP annual budget needs to be strengthened to meet new needs and to compensate for 40 pst. increase in food prices in general this year. For that, $4.3 billion is needed. By April 25, the organization had received $1 billion. In other words, the international community has to take a coordinated power cap here. Whether to go in with food or money will vary, because the impact on existing local food production needs to be taken into account. Agricultural development needs to be upgraded to the development policy agenda. These are irrigation, technology, adapted and disease-resistant seed varieties, fertilisers and, in particular, access to local, regional and international markets. There are probably enough agricultural areas globally if they are exploited for better yields in a sustainable way. The combination of enhanced agriculture in developing countries and high food prices globally can stimulate increased food production in Africa and elsewhere. For example, Russia is considered to have a significant potential. Such developments will be accelerated if the United States and Europe build their agricultural subsidies and trade barriers. Biofuels need to be assessed more nuanced. The Western subsidisation of biofuels producers in order to achieve defined objectives should clearly be reconsidered. If further development can give us second- and third-generation biofuels, time will show. Multilateral forums need to reconvene total calculations that include side effects and final consequences for both climate and food supply and prices, and that must govern both trade policy and economic arrangements. With the extent of this matter now, I meet the Council of State's assessment. I will come back to what expectations I have of Norway's international efforts in this context. But the first question is, what is the government's policy to balance the food supply, food prices and climate, respectively?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e1434	It is rare that I have heard an interpellation in the Stortinget where I could easily say yes and amen to everything I heard. It was a very good review of the situation. In particular, I could just go down again, but that would probably raise your attention, so I get to say a little bit. Let me start with a story. I was once in something called Jiangsu Province in central China, and we had a giant meal, with 15 dishes. When I hoped the dessert would come, they came instead with a very heavy fish. I asked, "Why in the world do you serve fish as the last right?" Well, they said, that's the ultimate sign of wealth. In ancient China, there was no one, not even the richest, who could eat meat, but to be able to eat fish at last when you were already saturated and could leave the fish behind, it showed that you were incredibly rich. When the Chinese Communists took power in China in 1949, basically all Chinese vegetarians were, not voluntarily, as any of us are, but forced. In 1980 the Chinese ate an average of 20 kilograms of meat a year. Now the Chinese eat 50 kilos of meat a year. They're on their way up to the Norwegian level, which is probably under 80 kilograms. It's clear that this is the underlying trend in increasing food prices -- that we're simply starting to get what we all want, and that's the goal of development policy: a large and broad global middle class that can afford a lot of what we think is great to afford. It comes first in China, but it also comes in India and in very many other countries. It also leads to a sharp rise in the price of oil and other energy products, which is also an underlying driving force in the increased food prices. The analysis of the sum of the different conditions — the underlying growth in important countries — is valid at a bottom-up level. At the top of it comes a speculation bubble that can go over, but that does not change the basic features, and at the top of it again comes the political patterns of action of individual countries. When e.g. Vietnam, which the world's second largest rice exporter does not believe to be able to export rice, obviously means something for the price of the international market. There is no fascination about the role of biofuels, but most observers are located around Vallersnes. Some say 10 pst, some say 20, and some say 30 pst. in the price impact of biofuels. But there are much larger areas that have been taken out of agricultural production, for example. areas for the cultivation of coffee, tea, cotton and a number of other non-food products. I share the completely interpellant's view -- that what we need is a balanced view of biofuels. There I think we can have a sensible hydropower policy as a model. Almost no people in Norway are fundamentally opposed to hydropower. Most of us think hydropower is a clean and good and sensible source of energy that we want, but almost none of us are for all sorts of hydropower and believe that we are now going to expand every single watercourse in the country. In other words, it is possible to be for hydropower, but against hydropower expansions. Similarly, it is fully possible to be for biofuels, but against many forms of biofuels that we do not think are sustainable. Therefore, the Government wants to be involved in influencing the work being done in the EU, because only the EU can realistically regulate the European market for biofuels, including Norwegian, and thus affect the global structure of biofuels. My opinion is that what we need in the first place is a rapid transition to second-generation biofuels, based on agricultural waste and forest waste. But we're going to phase this in much faster if we're already building up the infrastructure, i.e. the filling stations, the plants, all that's needed to make use of this second-generation biofuel. This is the main rationale for the policy that has now been pursued with regard to the setting of integration requirements and the fastest possible phase-in of second-generation biofuels. With regard to the biofuels already on the market, the Government shares the EU and many EU countries' view - that we have to regulate this market, so that we avoid the obvious problematic forms of biofuels, for example. cutting down rainforests to produce biofuels or reducing biodiversity by producing biofuels. But there are also forms of biofuels that today meet the criteria we have to reasonably set. The debate is very commuting. When we started the biofuel debate, the government demanded that we immediately get the most biofuels in. Almost everyone said that. Then the foreign minister and I said no, let's get a thorough investigation of this. We got many of the counter-representations that today dominate the debate on what is good and bad biofuels. One clear conclusion was that of the currently existing biofuel, what comes from Brazil, based on sugar cane, is among the best from an environmental point of view. So let's quickly get an introduction of new biofuels, let's get rules that regulate today's market in a sensible way, and let's look at the interference requirements when we now get a report from the State pollution control department on this in the very near future. Then I want to go a little further in the debate on food prices. I don't think we should now launch this just as a new, gigantic international problem. In the western part of the world, food has long been burned and destroyed to prevent overproduction to the markets. Getting a price increase in food can, right-handedly, increase production in Africa, in the former Soviet states and in a number of other areas that have high potential for increased food production. It does not happen automatically, profits can also go to intermediaries, and there are many obstacles on the road, but it provides a potential for that. We need to exploit that potential, while at the same time mitigating its effects. There's a big summit on this in Rome that the FAO, the UN Food Organisation, is calling for, at the beginning of June. As the interpellant said, there is a huge increase in interest in these issues now internationally. Originally, there was a meeting that no one really cared so much about. Now come Lula, now comes Sarkozy, and I'll attend--without comparing myself to them! So it's a huge interest in this meeting. In my view, the policy we should put forward there is that general development is the most fundamental in this area. I just visited Kenya and Tanzania. In Tanzania, a main problem is getting food production so simple that they don't have a working port. How, then, are you going to get fertilizer into the country? They don't have a well-functioning road system. How, then, are you going to get the fertilizer out to the farmers, and how are you going to get the farmers' production into a market, so that it makes sense to produce more? If you don't sell your goods, of course a farmer will produce for himself and his family, but he has no incentive to produce for a profit. It is this type of basic development problem that lies at the bottom. In Kenya, there is also a conflict at the bottom of the problem of food production. So all the basic development policy issues are at the bottom of the food crisis. On top of that, in my opinion, we need a green revolution in Africa as well. The agricultural output of Africa has been reduced by 20 pst. The last few decades, while it's dramatically increased throughout the world. Now remember, food production in the world is not going down. It went up last year, and it's expected to rise this year. So it's in spite of increasing food production that we get the problems we see. We need a green revolution in Africa. One of the things Norway is doing, in cooperation with something that is perhaps our largest asset in the field, Yara, is looking at how we can contribute to a green revolution in African countries. Malawi has been able to go from $5 million in the last two years. people on international food aid to become an agricultural exporter. There may also be weather and other reasons for it, but at least it is a positive development. The general development policy must therefore be at the bottom. On top of that, we need a green revolution. On top of that again, we need special help for the particularly vulnerable groups. It is poor in urban areas and poor in rural areas that do not have land. They are particularly vulnerable in this situation. They need, in my opinion, very limited international food aid - there are many examples of which have been counterproductive; it only helps to prolong the crisis. What they need in the first place is cash. Let's make sure that the poorest get access to money so that they can buy food in the local markets. It also has favourable price effects and thus provides incentives for increased local production. Let's not draw the conclusion from this that we're going to knock the poorest countries down with Western food aid. The World Food Programme has changed from being a significant tool to send surplus American grain into the world to be an organization that today buys the vast majority of food in local markets, both providing help and helping to develop local production. Then we can address a particularly acute question, and it is that famines, especially in cities in poor countries, have made it easy to help destabilize entire countries. In this way, not only is the short-term impact of food shortages on people, but also the degradation of countries that have been seen in some countries in West Africa with a high potential for this, and in some other poor countries, the size of urban populations, doing nothing and using 70-80-90 pst. of its income on food. They will be particularly vulnerable. Then you will also need help to stabilize countries, if at worst we would have these kinds of effects.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e1470	I thank the Council of State for the answer so far. In the nation's April 3rd this year, Bjørn Eidem, director of the Norwegian Institute for Agricultural Economic Research, NILF, has an interesting article. He compares today's food price crisis to the situation in the 1970s. Infant mortality and public health were significantly improved, and the result was a population explosion that the world's food production did not match. Food prices went up, and at the same time we got the first oil shock. At the World Food Conference in Rome in 1974, under the auspices of the FAO, it was decided to eradicate hunger in ten years. The FAO is responsible for food and agriculture and was successful at that time with coordination. The overall result was that the number of undernourished people fell significantly in the decades that followed. Now, 30 years later, food production is higher than ever, but the world's population is also more than doubled. Eidem points out that today’s situation is very similar to the situation in the 1970s. Food prices are rising rapidly at the same time as high energy prices, largely due to population growth and economic growth in large developing countries. The fundamental new thing since the 1970s is that energy and climate are also linked to agriculture. In this context, Norway has several multilateral organisations to play on. Both FAO and WFP and the WTO are up-to-date. Organisations have also notified of the threatening prospects in the past. A report prepared for the OECD and FAO last summer concluded, inter alia: with: ‘Increased demand for biofuels causes fundamental changes in agricultural markets that could lead to increased prices on the world market for agricultural products.’ After the London Summit two weeks ago, it is clear that the matter will be addressed at the EU Summit in June, the G8 meeting in July and the UN in September. Meanwhile, the UN Secretary-General, Ban Ki-moon, has set up an investigation group he himself will lead, which includes both the FAO and the WFP and the World Bank. The group has its first meeting next Monday, and will invite world leaders to the summit in Rome on 3 and 5 June to which the Council of State referred, where one will launch a strategy for further work, at least that is the goal. My question here is which positions the Norwegian delegation wants to meet. How will the Government contribute internationally to solving acute needs, but also the long-term and structural problems in order to provide food for the growing number of starving people? I hear the Council's answer so far, that one needs a green revolution and general development, and I agree with that. I also agree with the considerations about cash or food, and perhaps most often cash for not destroying local food production. However, what should the Norwegian contribution be in terms of taking the required structural ceilings, for example: in Europe? And what can Norway think of contributing to emergency aid?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e1492	I think it's very important that we, as the interpellant does, perceive the food situation and the food crisis as not a small isolated question that so to speak has one answer, but as a very central part of the whole big global debate on the big questions. The really big animal in this room is climate change, as I see it. Climate change has much the same cause as the rise in food prices, the formidable growth in wealth in many, but it will once again be able to reinforce the food crisis that climate change is expected to be particularly strong in the parts of the world that produce almost all of the world's food. The tropics and the northern regions produce a very small portion of the world's food, while the belt from the American prairie over Europe, the Middle East over to China and India, and Australia on the southern hemisphere, is where almost all the world's food is produced, and there it is expected to be warmer and worse ground in general for agricultural production. So we have to view this as a completely integrated part of all the major political issues. The main underlying factor is the enormously joyful development that we are getting a global middle class. Let's enjoy it, let's see how nice it is, it's never existed in human history before. But these are the difficulties we have to solve. Then I don't think there's a single answer, but there's a sum of many different things we have to do. I have tried to draw up some lines of policy on biofuels, to get the good and not the bad out of it, and we need to strengthen those UN organizations that provide emergency aid, like the World Food Programme. The UN Secretary-General, Ban Ki-moon, comes to Norway at the end of May. It will provide ample opportunity - also for the Foreign Affairs Committee of the United Kingdom, hopefully - to discuss these questions directly with him, in advance just of the meeting in Rome. We need to look at what Norway can do in terms of state building and peace efforts, which are closely related to this, we need to look at what we are doing for a green revolution in order to increase food production - at all, we need to look at the general development policy. The increase in food prices is not a question of a kind where there is a simple, small response in one area, but it is about the whole design of the policy in almost all of the major areas we are now facing. And I must congratulate the interpellant, too very, very rarely in the history of the Great Britain, there has been such a great development in a matter after an interpellation was submitted. Then, to be honest, something that a few relatively few people were aware of, both in Norway and internationally. In the course of the two months that have passed, this has gone from being one of many questions to becoming - as the interpellant showed well in his review of the G8, UN and all the other initiatives - along with the climate, the dominant issue on the international agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e1499	Let me begin by commending the interpellant for having a completely necessary debate on the world's food situation. In the last few years, we've had nearly 1 billion people who've been hungry at all times, without anyone calling it a crisis for that reason. Now we've got a plentiful situation, but it's incredibly important that we don't get a terribly simplified debate, where biofuels are pointed to as the main cause of rising food prices. I think the interpellant had a very nuanced analysis, and that's important, because if you're genuinely concerned about the world's poor and their supply of food, we have to make sure that the main causes of the food crisis are not hidden behind the biofuels. We need to be careful to get a kind of debate that only serves the oil industry, the kind that we've seen trends in the media. It is in many ways the account of a notified crisis that we are witnessing now. Of course, the prosperity development in China is very joyful, but think of what kind of challenges it brings when the Chinese have started to eat 50 kilos of meat on average a year. Biofuels consume about 1 pst. of the cultivated land of the world. If we look at numbers for the European Union, 64 pst is going. for animal feed, and it is quite incomprehensible to me that no one problems with the use of cultivated land for cotton, coffee, tea, tobacco, or drugs. Nordics alone import so much cheap cotton noise that they confiscate agricultural land corresponding to all cultivated land in France each year. So this would be a much more difficult debate if it was actually so that there was a shortage of agricultural land in the world. No one wants to think about the food from the poor. But the fact is that large parts of the affluent earth lie fallow, among other things. because local food production has been out of competition from subsidized food from the West, dumping simply. A very typical example of that is Mozambique. In Mozambique you use 15-20 pst. of the agricultural areas, so that they can easily double their production. For huge areas in the old Soviet Union in Eastern Europe, it is too. Senior Advisor Arild Skåra in Norad believes that Africa has the potential for a five-fold, or maybe even a time-fold, of its agricultural production. So when people are hungry, it's not because it's impossible to get food. Agriculture in developing countries is in many places not profitable, in many places not effective, and it is one of the really big challenges. Then, of course, increased food prices are dramatic, and especially for poor people in cities. But many have also been concerned with the opposite problem, that food prices have been artificially low over a long time. Farmers have not been properly paid for their crops, they have not harvested, they have not sown, there has been no agreement between the production costs and the price of food. We have to remember that 2/3 of the world's poor are farmers. For the first time in a long time, it is now more profitable to produce food than heroin in rural Afghanistan, and there are many African farmers who view biofuels as an opportunity, a way out of poverty, by now being able to produce something that competes with oil in price. This is very complicated, but if you want to take the food crisis seriously, you're just going to block a little bit if you go ahead with the biofuels. All biofuels are not good - of course not, and there are horrible examples of companies that have gone in, bought up food, plantations, etc. That's not good, and many of us are engaged in a certification scheme just because of that. And neither is it that all biofuels have climate effects. Palm oil, e.g. is a good example of that, and palm oil should not be used. But palm oil is 1 pst. of all biofuels in the world. SFT has calculated this. They've calculated that biodiesel has a climate effect of over 50 pst. Bioethanol has a climate effect of 80-90 pst. The public debate gives the impression that there is no climate impact of biofuels at all. I think it's pretty sad to observe e.g. the violent turnaround that has taken place in the Christian People's Party on the basis of a rather unhealthy debate, rather than a thorough examination of the issues related to food. Biofuels are the measure that can provide the largest and fastest emission cuts from the transport sector. We actually have to take that with us, all the time global warming and the loss of biodiversity are the most definitely the greatest threat to the world's supply of enough food.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e1514	I would first like to thank the interpellant for addressing a very important topic. Developments in food prices have given rise to great concern when the UN Food Programme says that 800 million people cannot afford or buy enough food. Much of this has many reasons, clearly, and much has to be done in many different countries. Norway may have a direct influence. A lot is beyond our reach, and then I think this debate should focus on what Norway can contribute to, instead of just wanting everyone to be happy. What the IMF says about this is that half of the increase in food demand is due to the use of biofuels -- half. Then one can also say that drying and failing crops affect the offer side, clearly. But one should look at what Norway is contributing in terms of biofuels. The representative Marthinsen's posts are actually also inviting to discuss customs barriers and Norwegian agricultural policy, but where the government is struggling enough, so I'm going to leave that. But I see that in the climate agreement has a boast of its ambitious goal of 5 pst. next year's fuel turnover shall be biofuel. The government spoke nicely about second-generation biofuels. I totally agree with that. But in the climate announcement, the government says that second-generation biofuels in widespread use are at least five to ten years ahead of time - five to ten years ahead. On the other hand, the integration requirement shall apply from this year onwards and the following years. This means that we are going to burn food to a great extent. This isn't a fight for or against biofuels as such, but it's a fight to make it sustainable, and it's all so nice about, second-generation biofuels, is simply not available. That's why I think it's good that the Right Party and especially the Christian People's Party are doing the reverse operation that they're doing now, because biofuels were a central part of the climate agreement that was adopted just two months ago. The warnings were already ready. The Progress Party led them into the debate, both in comments and in the Chamber. The warnings were clear to many others too, but they were ignored, because there and then the climate question was the most important thing. We discussed a similar case in 2007, following a proposal from the Christian People's Party and the Left, to force the incorporation of biofuels as soon as possible. The same warnings came from the Progress Party. So the theme as such is not new. Estimates have been made as to what this blend of biofuels in Norway will mean. Bright Holtsmark from the SSB says that it corresponds to food that could feed 2.8 million people for one year. That's it as 5 pst. Biofuel blending means Norway. Someone's sorry that biofuels worldwide only mean 1 pst. of the agricultural area. That shouldn't calm down. When such a small proportion of biofuels capture land but bring about so much price changes, one only has to be concerned about what it will result in at price level when countries start introducing market obligations on biofuels. One knows there's a shortage of food. Then it doesn't have to be very many marginal changes until you get a huge price estimate. That's exactly what we're seeing right now. There's something we can do. The interpellant itself showed that the United States will use 20 pst. of its maize production to biofuels. The U.S. stands for 70 pst. of world trade in maize. One can see that it will affect the price level. Many political leaders around the world are now reconsidering the commitment to biofuels. Gordon Brown is an example, Denmark's climate minister - yes, even in the European Union the debate goes thoroughly. It is worth noting that the UN Food Programme recommends and almost prays for a five-year break in the commitment to biofuels. I also notice that the vast majority of environmental protection organisations in Norway have turned around on this issue and are asking us to think through this, perhaps with the exception of ZERO, which SV uses as his court adviser, who says in a headline in today's newspaper that it is the oil companies that are responsible for what is happening now. I think one should avoid such derailment of the debate, but it is rather typical for dogmatic socialists to blame external enemies rather than see errors in their own policies. I wish we could waive the short-term requirement for blending biofuels until further notice. Let's use the money to speed up other technologies. Let's put certification schemes in place, not just for Norway, because if we buy certified, the uncertified biofuels will be sold elsewhere. Let's develop a collaborative project with other countries, especially in Africa, to grow the jatropha plant and use Norwegian biomembrane to get produced biofuels where food production is not possible. I challenge the Environment Minister to say how he will meet the short-term integration requirement, when he himself says that second-generation technology is not available to produce that biofuel. That debate has not yet been prepared by the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e1535	Let me first clear a misunderstanding. No reverse operation in relation to biofuels has been carried out on the right-hand side. What Mr Vallersnes is addressing here is an important initiative, and it is not least an important ongoing debate from a nuanced point of view. That's why I believe that both the Vallersnes and the State Councils had more constructive posts and contributed to that. The recent debate on increased food prices has not been constructive. It has been built on one-sided criticism of biofuels. The question we have to ask ourselves is: do we really have to choose between food and biofuels? Cultivated land often goes to something other than food. These are flowers, tea, grapes for wine, coffee and cotton, which are important products and on which several have come. It's also important to go back a little bit in history and see that we actually have a long story in Norway to use cultivated land for something other than food. The most important has been straw and grass for animal feed. As late as before the war it was common for 20 pst. the farmer’s cultivated land was intended as food for the horse. The horse has been replaced by the tractor, so the question is whether there is a difference between growing biofuels for the tractor and growing straw and grass for the horse. Let me do a couple of other examples that have got a very distorted presentation in the media. The first is the tortilla crisis in Mexico, where it is known that it was subsidized American maize that led to the depopulation of Mexican agriculture. So the cheap corn disappeared, and the price naturally went up again. Another and more positive example is from Freiburg, Germany, where the Choren's new biodiesel plant is now finished. Over the course of a year, this plant will produce 18 million. litre biofuels with basis in straw and wood. This is progress that would probably not have happened without a first-generation biofuel commitment. But we need, as the Council of State also said, the fastest possible phase-in of second-generation biofuels, which are then largely based on waste products. However, we need the infrastructure to which first-generation biofuels contribute, which will lead to a faster phase-in. Biofuel production in the world today, according to the FAO Agriculture Organisation, seizures 1 pst. of all arable land, as many have said, and the FAO estimates that the same biofuel production will cover 2 pst. of agricultural land by 2030. People don't starve because there's a shortage of food, people starve to a great extent because they're poor. If there was a shortage of arable land in the world, it would have been easy to say that then we would cut out the bet on biofuels, because food goes ahead of everything. However, there is more than enough cultivated land in the world to produce both biofuels and food for all. Climate change is man-made, they are dangerous, they are unfair, and they are already in the process. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has said that we need to cut greenhouse gas emissions by 50-85 pst. In the short term, at least by 2015, we need to see a reduction in global climate emissions. That means we can't afford to wait. Therefore, we cannot exclude the measure that can actually contribute in the short term to a sector as large as the transport sector. Only in Norway, passenger car traffic accounts for approx. 15 pst. of our total emissions. Biofuel production is just one reason why food prices are increasing. According to the FAO, a combination of factors contributes to this, where the interpellant mentioned the different in an excellent way. But increased food prices are also not unequivocally negative. 70 pst. of the world's poor live in the countryside in developing countries and are linked to agriculture. Given that a large part or at least part of this price increase comes to producers, this will contribute to an increase in income and influence the flow of urban migration and further rural development. Higher food prices will mainly affect the poor urban population and the poor in rural areas without countries. When Norway surfs extremely high oil prices and is the absolute winner of globalisation, we have a strong moral responsibility to help. I wish I could address my extreme criticism of the world's agricultural policy, and in particular the agricultural policy of the richest countries, but time does not allow it. I just want to conclude by saying that we have to make demands on how biofuels are produced, and the EU has a special responsibility. I would also like to say that the representative Thorkildsen, in relation to today's newspaper, has a special responsibility to deal with facts and not to use propaganda, as we have unfortunately seen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e1561	Also, I want to give praise to the interpellant, who in a very nuanced way addresses an important and serious theme. The situation for at least 850 million people who are chronically undernourished and who are facing rising food prices is serious. This was a topic specifically addressed by developing countries at a conference recently organised by the United Nations Trade and Development Organisation (UNCTAD) in Ghana. And we see the result of more people being hungry, as the Minister for Development was about: riots that can destabilize states, but also the loss of future development, because it hits kids extra hard. So, as many have said, there are many causes of food crisis. That is why more solutions must be found and, as the Minister for Development said, the whole spectrum of development policy must be used. One reason may be West's growing demand for fuel. And let it be said, the poor of the world must not pay for the excess consumption of the West. But the answer is not to stop the development of biofuels as an alternative energy source, for shipping if the increase in biofuel demand in the last year is indisputable - it could be an ignition mechanism for today's food crisis - then there is primarily speculation in food prices and a monopolistic trade in food that is the cause. So there are few, but large companies dealing with this trade, and there is subsidising the use of agricultural land for the production of biofuels that maintain the crisis. Food has become part of international trade in the same way as other goods, and here I hope that the Progress Party in particular listens to. Since the 1980s, both the 50 poorest countries and developing countries, as a group, have gone from being net food exporters to net food importers. Trade liberalisation and privatisation pressures from the West have made developing countries less able to protect their own food production and mainly food for their own local markets. Take the example of Ghana, where the UNCTAD conference took place. The country had a large production of chicken and tomato, but was required by Bretton Woods institutions to stop subsidising, among other things. fertilisers. At the same time, the EU and the United States continued to subsidise their export agriculture. The result was the dumping of food products and the elimination of local producers. It was the same thing in Haiti. For decades the Haitians produced enough rice to cover 95 pst. for own final consumption and the protected local markets with import holdings. In 1995, the IMF forced the country into a dramatic customs war as a prerequisite for obtaining a loan. The result was mass imports of subsidised rice from the USA. Thousands of rice farmers lost land and livelihoods. That is why the message from many at the UNCTAD meeting was: Yes, emergency help must be provided here and now. It has to be in place. However, an important solution is that developing countries need to have political space to develop agriculture also with new production methods, to develop food security for their own population in order to protect small farmers, who are mostly women in Africa, and to develop infrastructure so that farmers can deal with surplus production. This requirement is also cut in export subsidies in rich countries. This is a requirement that Norway supports. Others have been facing increased demand for food from the world's ever-growing middle class. This is a long-term development. It says something about the division between north and south being built down. And that's good, but it sets new and stronger demands for solidarity redistribution within developing countries that have growth. There is no clear answer as to whether the world’s growing interest in biofuels is good or bad for the world’s poor. There is no solution to excluding countries in the south from the possibility of producing biofuels. As Marianne Marthinsen had in mind, palm oil diesel produced by cutting down rainforests, poor bio-fuels that do not counteract climate change, while Kenya’s commitment to biofuels for local use has produced significant results in terms of access to electricity and positive ring-effects for poor people. The alternative is also other renewable energy, such as solar energy, such as Tanzania’s demand. Others from SV will follow this with bioenergy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e1582	First, I want to pay tribute to the representative of Vallersnes for putting an important matter on the Stortinges agenda, and also for his nuanced posts, an article that the Council of State could say yes and amen to. There's probably a lot of us that can also say to that post. There is a food uprising going on in several places in the world, and the reason is the dramatic growth in food prices. The positive developments that we have seen in recent years, with a reduction in the number of the world's absolute poor, are turning around. According to the World Bank, increased food prices can send over 100 million people into absolute poverty and severe malnutrition, and others will take the children out of school for families to survive. For the most vulnerable, this means hunger and death. The wave of increased food prices is like a silent tsunami. The World Bank, the UN, the OECD and many others agree that something needs to be done. We know that the increase in food prices is due to many different factors: reduced production due to climate change, low production in many developing countries, historically low cereal stocks and economic growth in several countries, resulting in demands for more food. The last thing is, after all, a positive development that is crazy, but it has some consequences. Energy prices have risen, as have transport prices. We also use cultivated land to produce biofuels. Norway has a responsibility to contribute to the food crisis in the world, because we are making a lot of money on one of the strongest driving forces behind the food crisis, namely the increased oil prices. Yara’s recent record results also show that we benefit from the rising fertiliser prices to poor farmers. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has made a strong recommendation that we must cut emissions drastically and that it is urgent. In Norway, 25 pst. of our climate emissions from the transport sector, so it is obvious to us that this sector must contribute. Therefore, the proposal from the departments to the national transport plan is not sufficient from a climate and environmental point of view. In the climate agreement, we agreed that further work on biofuels should, in the light of the consultation, consider the proposal for the introduction of the biofuel marketing directive. Furthermore, we agreed that sustainable production and imports should be a prerequisite for the phase-in of biofuels, and that Norway should exercise pressure internationally to put in place mechanisms to ensure this. At the EU Summit in March last year, it was agreed that the binding target of 10 p.m. had to be seen in the context of the development of second-generation biofuels. Unfortunately, this premise does not seem to be as strong in the EU today as it was a year ago. Biofuels must be seen in the context of other objectives that we have in other policy areas. Because that's just how we can succeed. And we have to succeed, because our globe doesn't tolerate our failure. Today, a Norwegian sales mandate could only be realised by means of large-scale imports of biofuels produced, inter alia. soya, rape, maize, sugar or palm oil. Some of these types of biofuels pass on other food production. The Christian People's Party believes that we need to establish a reliable certification system. This is different from a non-reporting scheme where, for example: may be reported as «unknown country of origin». Once we have put in place such a reliable certification scheme, the time has come for a trading ban. A certification scheme must ensure that biofuels sold in Norway have a documented climate benefit of at least 50 pst., do not result in loss of biodiversity, do not lead to increased food prices and do not result in loss of rainforest, wetlands or protected areas. It has been suggested by representatives in this room that the Christian People's Party has turned around in this case. That's not true. We are faithful to the policy we have been pursuing all along, and we are also taking on board the debate that is going on. However, biofuels must and are an important part of the solution to the climate challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e1604	The last time that biofuels were used was a highly debated theme. The problems are many, and the answers are complicated. On the other hand, it's because none of us fully have enough knowledge of the consequences of a large-scale investment in biofuels. the global use of land and food prices in the years to come. There have been many allegations, such as: that the cultivation of biofuels leads to increased food prices, and that the poor are starving because we want environmentally friendly fuel on the thought that biofuels have no - or perhaps even negative - climate effects that lead to the disappearance of rainforests, etc. But the image is much more composite. The center party is excited that we both helped to solve the climate crisis and ensure that enough food is produced in the world to satisfy the increasing population. Because the population on earth is increasing, and it's increasing rapidly. Last year, the NRK News reported that half of all people who have ever lived on earth are now alive. There will be between 60 and 80 million new people to satisfy every year. Today, we're approaching 7 billion inhabitants on the globe. Already in 50 years, we can be close to 10 billion people. With more people, more food production is naturally needed. One of its major challenges for the future will be the fight for land. Therefore, it is important that we conduct a policy nationally and internationally to promote the proper use of these areas. The reason for the increasing food prices we see today is not the cultivation of biofuels alone. Biofuels can probably only explain a smaller part of them, while e.g. increasing oil prices and not least increasing demand from middle-income countries must respond to far more of the price increase. We can't criticize people in India and China for loving a diet that looks more like what we have ourselves. But there is a great seriousness in the situation when the food price crisis we have today happens at the same time that world production of cereals is record high. The World Bank warns of the danger of social unrest and uprisings in 33 countries due to rising food prices, while at the same time notifying its FAO organisation that food production in the world must be doubled and all agricultural resources used to meet future food needs. So the center part is just a little bit of how we give priority to the use of the area on the planet. The UN's agricultural organization says that 1 pst. of the arable land of the soil is used for fuel production today. Much more is being used for the production of cotton and tobacco and other luxury products to cover the ever-increasing luxury consumption of the rich in the world. This likely distorts the production of food products far more than biofuel production does. The new area for the production of food and cosmetics products also helps to distort important rainforest areas. An example here is soya. So it could also be a climate problem. Although biofuel production is not at present the main cause, we cannot avoid increasing the demand for biofuels to a certain extent will contribute to increasing food prices. Some will show that it can be positive in itself because it strengthens the income of landowners and secures jobs and economic growth. A large part of the world's poor are farmers. Physical requirements for biofuel production are much lower than those for food production. This makes it possible for a decentralised production under the control of many owners. The critics of such a view would point out that it is rarely the peasants themselves who sell the products to the West and sit back with the excess. Increased prices could lead to increased ownership concentration, so these revenues and land will accumulate on fewer hands and give a few people an increased standard of living. Some of this production also has foreign ownership interests. How to increase food prices for the poor will depend on a number of factors. It would be profoundly immoral to contribute to increasing imports of biofuels, food or other land-based products from countries that allow a few landowners to enrich themselves on exports of such goods, while an increasing number of people in the country are starving. We also have to take that over. I see the time is running fast, President. I want to give praise to the interpellant. He addresses important questions. So I would like one perspective to be explained in more detail: how are the issues that we are discussing here today to be reflected in Norwegian policy, domestic policy and foreign policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e1640	I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the interpellant for addressing an important and very topical issue today. Renewable energy production can also be conflicted. We have seen that in the debate on hydropower, we see that in the debate on wind power and now in the debate on biofuels. Common to all these types of renewable energy production is that there are some projects that are good and some that we should avoid because they are too conflict-filled. In biofuels, there are poor projects that displace rainforests, have poor environmental quality and bring price pressure on food. Examples of good projects are biofuels from different types of waste. Biofuels can also be produced from wood in the future. There are several types of biofuels that are environmentally sound and do not conflict with the cultivation of food. We must also remember that in the future, climate change can lead to even greater food crises through failed crops and long-lasting droughts or floods. Perhaps there are climate change that has already caused crops to fail more places in the world in the last year. If we are to solve the climate challenges, we must, among other things, address them. bet on renewable energy sources. Biofuels can have significant benefits - and significant disadvantages. The benefits were explained when Brazilian President Lula when Silva was on a state visit in Norway in September 2007. Contribute to solving climate problems, increasing energy security also for poor countries and more job opportunities for poor people in poor countries are central to this. But eventually we've also gotten our eyes up for the disadvantages. The World Food Programme warns against increased cultivation and use of biofuels affecting food production for poor countries. As we have seen, prices have increased significantly on important food products on the world market. The price of wheat has, for example, session by nearly 100 pst. the last year. This means that many poor countries need to spend much more resources to feed their own people. In the most vulnerable areas, this may lead to hunger and malnutrition. Some types of biofuel production also contribute to more greenhouse gas emissions than an ordinary fossil fuel will contribute. In addition to impacting on nutrition and poverty, the increased focus on biofuels has a number of other environmental and social aspects. It is important to identify these in order to distinguish between the good and the bad projects. The difference is linked to the nature of the raw material used, the types of land on which they are cultivated, fertiliser, water requirements, cargo, production, etc. I agree with the interpellant that there is an urgent need to strike a balance between the different considerations associated with this case complex. We have to make sure that the investment is aligned so that we achieve the best possible climate impact and at the same time prevent the negative consequences. The left does not want developments in the use of biofuels at the expense of the world's food situation and at the expense of the environment. I believe that in order to manage the worst negative effects of increased cultivation and use of biofuels, we need effective international standards and certification systems, so that we can distinguish between the bad and the good projects. The left made an early call for such a scheme in combination with the investment in biofuels. Purchasers and users of biofuels should have access to relevant information on where and how the fuel has been produced and whether it complies with the applicable requirements. These should reflect all those environmental and social aspects of importance. Then we have to consider basing this on the types of biofuels to which subsidies are granted in terms of, for example: exemption from fees. The government should consider how Norway can contribute to the implementation of such a scheme. Finally, I would say that it is positive with all the attention to biofuels and the food situation. However, I would warn against overestimating Norway's role in this picture and making hasty decisions. However, we should stop and find the way Norway can best contribute to the reduction of hunger and poverty and find sustainable ways of producing renewable energy. Even in a heated climate debate, it is important to keep your head cold.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e1666	First thanks to the interpellant from my side also--and for the great post. Thank you also for a very nice debate so far. However, the lack of food and increased food prices that have led to riots and demonstrations in several parts of the world is a complex problem. It can hardly be linked unilaterally to the use of cultivated land for the production of biofuels; it has also been said before today. On the contrary: according to FAO, biofuels only contribute to approx. 10 pst. of the price increase. I have heard other numbers here earlier today. The debate is important. Let us hope that it can contribute to a more systematic development to ensure increased food production and self-sufficiency in poor countries, including the United Kingdom. in Africa. It must involve reforms for poverty-oriented agricultural development, for food security, for strengthening women’s rights and the right of use and ownership of land, land and water by poor people. African farmers are, as has also been said before, out of competition on the domestic market because cheap and subsidized food from Europe and the United States has been dumped. However, as if that were not enough, misunderstanding of food aid has also led to local farmers not having sold their products. It's almost worse. A terrible example is Niger, where international media proclaimed a famine. World relief agencies then bombarded the country with food, which was probably totally unnecessary. The result? The local farmers had to stop their food production, because there was no demand for that food anymore. It's serious. And that's a challenge. I would also like to point out that, in its last budgetary position, the Committee on Foreign Affairs believes that measures in WTO legislation are necessary to prevent the dumping of foodstuffs. I believe that food aid - and only exceptionally - must be used in emergency situations. I will join in what the Minister for Development said. Instead, we need a global food security policy that stimulates local food production and strengthens food security in vulnerable regions. In a chronicle in Dagbladet yesterday, representatives of the Church's Emergency Aid asked ZERO about increased food prices is an unconditional evil for the world's poor, since 70 p.m. of the world's poor are linked to agriculture. The problem is that according to the UN Habitat, the majority of the population of developing countries will live in cities in 20 years. A development policy must also take account of urban poverty. The slum population in cities is highly vulnerable to increased food prices. There are already countries that subsidise food in urban areas. Robust food stores that can face crisis situations are otherwise something that even our domestic civil protection had up to a few years ago. Ultimately, this is about policies, about lasting structural changes that ensure development and lead to the achievement of the UN's Millennium Goals. Norway needs to pursue a policy of development that tackles hunger and malnutrition as symptoms of poverty and structural power - even in order to meet domestic needs for food. In addition, we must continue to adopt vanguards like the Mugabe regime in Zimbabwe, where virtually all agriculture is now gone and the people are starving. So Zimbabwe was Africa's grain chamber. So this is also about good governance. Finally, let me warn you about putting food safety and biofuels up against each other. Biofuel production consumes only 1 pst. of the arable earth of the world, we have learned before today. But we also have to have international guidelines here that require how the biofuel is produced. For example, it has to be. not lead to deforestation or loss of biodiversity. However, for developing countries, actual biofuels can in the long run also mean cheaper and more environmentally friendly energy than, for example, renewable energies. oil, and this is also a challenge for oil companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e1687	There have been many good and nuanced posts here. I want to start by saying that it is important that we quickly put in place good control systems and a certification system that ensures that the biofuels we use are really climate-friendly and environmentally friendly. In the same way as NoBio and ZERO, SV are concerned that the reporting system for which SFT proposes must be linked to concrete requirements for climate benefit and sustainability. It must not be possible for an importer to report ‘unknown’ and to escape knowing how the fuel has been produced. We have to have minimum requirements. With this as a hindrance, I would say that I think it has been strange to see the unsavory way of especially two parties in the Stortinget now gripped the debate on biofuels. The Christian People's Party and the Advance Party have both asked the Government to put the biofuel policy on ice. That the Progress Party believes this is not unexpected. They do everything they can to prevent Norway from being converted in a climate-friendly direction. Dagfinn Højbråtens position, as he argued in the newspaper yesterday, is, however, far more disturbing. During record time, the high tide has gone away from the demands of climate negotiations that would mean a sharp increase in the share of biofuels in Norwegian cars, to believe that this is a dead end, and that biofuels are almost immoral. In my opinion, such a position is three-thirds unfortunate. Firstly, it could threaten the development of second-generation biofuels and stagnate necessary developments. Secondly, it will not prevent today's food crisis, but rather represent derailment. Wheat and rice are the foods that have increased most in price, and they are not used to produce biofuels. I'll say more about this later. Thirdly, such a position may help to delay the transition from fossil dependence to low-carbon societies. The fact that the Progress Party sees this as perfectly all right should not surprise anyone. But that the Christian People's Party should throw itself on, I think I'm both surprising and searchful. There is both good and bad biofuels. There is sustainable biofuel production and there is production that neither takes human beings nor the environment into account. The recent debate has led many to believe that all biofuels are bad, and that biofuels in all their forms take food out of the mouth of the poor. The fact that many poor people are better paid for the raw materials they produce or that set-aside land is likely to be increasingly used for biofuels is not being promised. The fact that a lot of potential food is already used to produce tobacco, cotton, alcohol and power feed has also not led to any foamy precisely. Another point is that investing in biofuels can make poor countries less dependent on importing expensive oil, which was also home to Marit Nybakk, a good thing for them and for the world. Moreover, if agriculture is made less dependent on fossil fuels, food prices will also be less exposed to fluctuations in the oil price and thus more stable. We should all be concerned about the food crisis that has arisen. In SV we believe that this is a notified crisis, and among other things. a result of an agricultural policy which is neither sustainable nor fair. The EU and the United States have been dumping food on the world market for years. This has created enormous problems for food production in many developing countries. Local farmers have been out in competition at home, a lot of land has been laid down, and valuable production has been lost. Export subsidies keep many of the poor countries out of the world market because they cannot compete at price. The role of the United States is particularly important because it is a major producer of several of the main foreign products such as cotton, rice, soya and maize. The production of biofuels in the United States is also based to a large extent on products that affect food prices, as well as on extensive export subsidies, including the biofuel they produce. The UN Food and Agriculture Organisation, FAO, says that biofuels involve both opportunities and risks, and indicates that poor farmers can be better paid when prices rise, but at the same time they hit poor cities. FAO indicates that there are many reasons for the recent price increase. Many of those reasons I've shown you, so I don't need to spend time on it. We also believe that biofuel production accounts for about 10 pst. of the price increase we've seen. Nevertheless, biofuels have become the great scapegoat. Why? It's close to thinking that there's strong lobbying interests behind such an unsound discussion as the one we've seen developing lately. At least we should ask ourselves the question: who makes up for an unfurnished biofuel debate? An obvious answer is the oil industry. In Sweden, the government has actually gone out and warned against this. Today is 99 pst. the fossil fuel, with high greenhouse gas emissions as a consequence. Sustainable fuel is one of several responses to this problem. The most important thing remains that we change our transport pattern through better land planning and restrictions on car traffic, ship and aviation requirements, as well as the organisation of public transport, cycling and the use of legs. In addition, we need to move from fossil fuels to renewable alternatives and more energy-efficient solutions. In any case, we do not avoid having to drive a smaller car and consume less energy. Everything else is deceiving us. There are limits to what the earth can do for us humans.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e1715	First, I would like to thank the representative, Vallersnes, for the interpellation, and not least for the article. Vallersnes is safe in a former value conservative tradition in the Right Party, but such speech is an eye-catching peculiarity in today's Right. I'm among those who really appreciate it. Furthermore, I want to commend the Council of State's response, which I also had nothing to do with subtracting or adding. I really appreciated it. I would also like to draw the attention of Mr Ågot Valle to the implications of the last decade's trade policy, where food security has almost been a sceptical word in international forums. Finally, some things happen. It is mentioned in 1974. We're now in 2008, it's 34 years ago -- it's a human age. It was also interesting to learn that now a new summit will be held in Rome, 34 years later. The 1974 Rome Summit was pitiful for us young at the time. It was the debate on a new world economic order, green revolution and international solidarity. It has shaped us who were engaged in it, for the rest of our lives. And those of us who are in marriage still believe in it. Interestingly, it is referred to the CEO of the Civil Economists, Bjørn Eidem, who writes an article in which he draws this up - Bjørn Eidem, former U.D. employee, who was involved and was to realize a new world economic order. It's great that we have such a leader for the civil economists. Think of this as the policy of the civil economists! I hope that the debate that we have today will be scoffing also for the generation of young people who are going to get involved now. Biofuels are photosynthesis energy -- it's the cultivation and processing of green plants into diesel and into petrol. Some green plants -- cereals and potatoes -- can be food for us humans. As we know, man eats only what an animal can also eat. So there could be a conflict between the animals that have to live on cereals and potatoes, and those of us who can't afford to buy food -- one takes the food out of the mouth of humans. The interesting thing about Vallersnes’ interpellation is in the cards. He says that the market mechanism cannot solve this ethical dilemma. One must correct the market mechanism. I'm glad it's being pulled out. What is at the heart of this is the impact this will have on its own policies. I hope that the international driving rules on how we act in trade policy will be revised. The World Trade Organisation's thinking has expired. One has to go back to what was the thought of a new economic world order. We need - to the President and to the Council of State - to increase the start-up aid to the economically poor countries. We have the means to help. We have an economic capacity that is completely different from 1974. We have to get to those degrees. We have the opportunity to develop second generation biofuels - wood diesel. There are only two countries in the world, Luxembourg and Bermuda - and it's really not even a country - that, according to the latest figures I've seen, for 2004, have higher gross domestic product per capita. is based on a population of more than Norway. So we have an economic capacity to do something completely unique, and we have a government that has a better understanding of this than governments we've had before. It's important how we act on property policy around the world. I am pleased that the Council of State focuses on the propertyless peasants, among others. Brazil. That there will be changes there is a prerequisite for them to have a completely different relationship to the Earth's and to the return of their own work. Wooden diesel was mentioned. Norwegian Forest Follum has plans for timber diesel. It should not be difficult to realise a pilot project here - a pilot project with less theoretisation around second generation diesel and with a more practical design of the measures. Finally, we have to reduce the import of flour. The amount of flour to feed pigs and chickens in Norway has never been greater than today. We can simplify it. We can use our grasslands. This concerns Norwegian policy today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e1743	Let me start with the beginning. What is the main point in this matter is the following: Energy is needed to ensure development in developing countries. 85 pst. the energy of the world comes from fossil sources. It's not sustainable, everyone understands. It creates climate problems. Some of the things that we contribute to, and that we earn a lot of money on, are growth and prosperity in parts of the world that haven't had it in the past. And then the point is, how are we going to be able to convert from a society based on 85 pst as soon as possible? fossil energy sources to a society based on much less use of such energy sources, and where we are able to use clean technologies - which Norway is going to get to - to ensure that the CO2 incinerated is not released into the atmosphere and creates dramatic climate change? The low-emission sample considers that in the transport sector - which in 2004 accounted for around 4 % of total emissions. 30 pst. of emissions for Norway - we need to address them. There's two grips we have to take. One is to make sure that we get more efficient engines as soon as possible. One way to do it is to say like the Government, that efficient cars that emit less CO2 will be cheaper than large, fuel consuming cars. The way we've started - the emissions from new cars sold have been reduced by 10 pst. -we will continue to go in the years to come. Let's say this: we don't get exactly dragistic help from the Progress Party in that direction, but it's a policy that most of the other parties here on the Storing are involved in. The other way to get something done about this, according to the Low Emissions Committee, is through a major revolution in the use of fuels into biofuels. Why is this important? Well, that's important for two reasons. Although we should be able to introduce efficient hybrid cars that can be loaded in a two-year period from next year, cars in Norway purchased this year will drive on the roads for the next 20 years. If we look at some other countries in the world, we see a car park that may be even older. The cars there will need fuel, and if we're going to do something to produce that fuel as environmentally friendly as possible, it's about making sure that it's put on biofuels. What I have great faith in is that we are moving more to plug-in hybrid cars -- which both Toyota and several others will launch in the years that are coming -- that just give us the opportunity to use clean renewable energy to charge batteries. It'll be a very efficient way to use the energy. But also these cars will - in the case of long distances - need some fuel. And what's better than biofuels in that context? This is something that is not just important to us in Norway. It is also important for all countries that currently use large quantities of their badly needed foreign reserve assets to pay dearly for the oil produced in the world. This is why, among other things: The Senegal Head of State took the initiative to cooperate with both the EU and Brazil to create an African ‘biofuels-OPEC’ - to use the figure that falls around the equator, to develop biofuel production, both to the delight of that country and to the delight of those of us who depend on the fuel. I think it's very important what Per Olaf Lundtigen drew up in the previous articles on food, and that several speakers have drawn up here, including the interpellant, namely that it's very strange how this debate about increased food prices has quickly been fed into biofuels. There is no doubt that there is good biofuels and bad biofuels. Nor is there any doubt that much of the food resources that exist in the world today are going to produce completely different things than food for people. For example, it's the way Per Olaf Lundtegen said we've had 40 pst. increase in animal feed imports in Norway from 2000 to 2007. There is no doubt that through our consumption of meat -- through consumption of chicken meat, pig meat and, in and of itself, salmon farming -- we are helping to drain the world of food resources because we want this kind of meat production instead. This is a debate that is going to go on in the time to come. I think we're all going to agree that good biofuels are good, and let's use them.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e1768	Let me start by thanking everyone who has been involved in the debate with good points. I think there might have been an overweight on the fuel side in relation to how we will provide enough food at an affordable price for everyone in the short and long term. One thing that several people have been through is that there are enough areas. It's just a question of using them the right way, and among other things. with more new cultivation. The question is, how do we stimulate an increase in agricultural land, because it does not happen by itself? It needs political solutions to get the green revolution that both the Council of State and I want. I had hoped that the Council of State might have given some more specific answer than what he has given so far, but he has an opportunity. Firstly, what will the Norwegian positions be for both acute and structural action internationally when one is about to go out and meet the international community in several sentences in a short time? Secondly, what Norwegian measures will a set of measures help to achieve these objectives? This applies both in the short term, i.e. to emergency appropriations, and in the long term. The question is whether the Council of State agrees with the Right that agricultural development must be given greater priority in the aid budget. If there is one thing that has struck me after I have entered this topic, it is that we have also this time learned that we need to learn to analyse better in advance the side and end consequences of new actions we are embarking on. I really feel very involved in this matter. I tend to say sometimes when I'm asked what it's like to do with development policy when you're elected on behalf of a constituency in Norway, who might expect more time spent on traffic, industrial development or what it might be, that we're dealing with these issues here, in a way, have two constituencies. We have a constituency at home, and we have a responsibility towards it, by explaining to them that the means we use internationally, and in aid and development, are well used and achieve effective action. But we essentially have a constituencies out there as well, and those are the ones that are intended to have the effect of these means. We also have a responsibility to them. I had hoped that the Council of State had given us some more specific answers to the questions I asked, so that we could also have seen those people in the eyes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e1783	Let me repeat the thank you from the interpellant and thank you very much to all who have kept very good, nuanced and witty posts. The exception in the debate was as usual the Advancement Party, which held a cracking good post, which would be just as good if it had been against meat, the breeding industry, Hennes & Mauritz, Dressmann, the Coffee Brennery or Lipton Tea. It just shows the total lack of nuances in the debate. On the other hand, I think it was very reassuring to hear the article from the Christian People's Party, which just shows that the Christian People's Party has not turned around in the biofuel debate - which one can get the impression of in the media - but wants to draw up exactly the same guidelines for what is good biofuels, which I believe the government parties, the Right and the Left have been concerned about in the debate. Exactly what interference requirements we are going to have, we have to come back to on the basis of the report that comes soon from the State pollution control department, and the Stortinget is of course duly involved in the matter. Then I agree with the interpellant that biofuels have become too dominant in the debate, because I believe that biofuels and food prices are essentially two separate issues. They're related, but the question of food prices is much, much bigger than the question of biofuels. To put it very briefly, one is the short-term, immediate measures. Then I believe that cash is almost always better than direct food aid, and that state building is absolutely essential to prevent the food situation from coming out of control. What does that mean? Kinshasa in Congo, which I was in 14 days ago, is a city with almost 8 million inhabitants, but almost none are in normal work. Most people walk around and vases and have nothing to do. They're sitting on a market and selling clothes hangers, or whatever it is. It is clear that such a city has enormous potential for riots and riots associated with food prices. That is one thing - the immediate measures. We have to have full pressure on them. The second is the long-term work on better food production. I think there are a lot of things around it that are very important, not just the agriculture itself. The market is absolutely crucial. No farmer produces over time if they do not have a market to produce for. If they are to reach the market, they must have roads, ports, etc. Property relationships are very important. It's almost everywhere in the world that the type of property we have in Norway is the form that gives the largest production. Our common, medium-sized self-owning farmers are the ones that produce the most. In plantations, large-scale agriculture and feudal agriculture, production is much, much less. In terms of agricultural inputs, fertilisers are an important factor. He is natural with a cooperation with Yara. I think it has been a misguided policy not to want to subsidize fertilizers. We need to have a lot of measures that, in total, contribute to the green revolution that we've been talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e1798	The debate on substance is closed. 5 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e1812	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 3214]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e1828	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 3214]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08.ana.ud1594e1833	The time for the morning meeting is soon to be set out in the Rules of Procedure. The president proposed that we cancel the meeting now and set a new meeting at 5 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox - It's a note.
