ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e56	Honourable co-representatives! Former Depositary Representative and State Council of the Workers' Party Annemarie Lorentzen died on 30 June 2008, almost 87 years old. The country and the Labour Party have lost one of their pioneers, an unreasoning and committed politician. She was in her time the country's first female Minister of Transport. Later she also became Minister of Consumer and Administrative Affairs. When she retired from the government in January 1978, it was to have a break after many years of work in bulk and government. The break did not last long. Already the same month she left the government, the then Foreign Minister, Knut Frydenlund, thought it was time to appoint the other female ambassador of history. – It was Iceland, where she shot her job with commitment and joy. With Annemarie Lorentzen's death, an epoch in post-war history in Norway is about to ebb out. Lorentzen was, as Reidar Nielsen recently wrote, among the last survivors of political veterans from the warring Finnmark. Never have any Finnland politicians faced such enormous challenges that Annemarie Lorentzen and her generation were confronted in 1945. In today’s prosperity, it is difficult to understand the situation in which the returnees were. On the ruins, they were to build a new society. They were supposed to stack on the legs of a functional local government again. Also there you started with blank sheets. Annemarie Lorentzen was very central to the reconstruction work. She was early embossed by the concepts of freedom, equality and brotherhood. Already in 1951 she became a member of Hammerfest's local government and after each chairman. She sat on the Stortinget from 1969 to 1977, and in the government from 1973 to 1978. She finished her career with seven years as an ambassador in Iceland, a country she came to love, and that came to love her. As a woman politician in man - dominated areas, she was a pioneer in several ways. She became the first female president of the Finnish Labour Party County Association. She was the first female representative from Finnmark who was directly elected as a representative. She was the first woman to be elected to the Storting Defence Committee, and the first female Minister of Transport. While she was sitting on the Stortinget, her interest in international politics was also awakened. This led her, among other things, to to the delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, where she was present for several years. Annemarie Lorentzen became faithful throughout his life to the political ideals of his youth and the labour movement. She has made a formidable contribution to society and has held a wide range of public and political positions. She was, among other things, Chairman of the Vest-Finnmark Workers' Party and Chairman of the Women's Secretariat of the Workers' Party. Former representative of the Christian People's Party and President of Odelstinget, Asbjørn Haugstvedt, died on 26 June 2008, 81 years old. He represented the Christian People's Party on the Stortinget from 1969 to 1985. From 1969 to 1973 he was elected from Bergen, and after the merger he represented Hordaland from 1973 to 1985. When the Willoch government was transformed and expanded in 1983, Asbjørn Haugstvedt became the State Council of the Ministry of Commerce and Maritime Affairs, a position he held for the government's resignation in May 1986. Asbjørn Haugstvedt was born on 20 November 1926 in Bergen, and that was where he had his home base every year. In civil life he worked in social affairs. In his years at Stortinget, Haugstvedt was a member of several committees. From 1969 to October 1972 he served in the Judicial Committee, then in the Foreign and Constitutional Committee until 1977. He was a member of the Defence Committee from 1977 to 1979, the Industry Committee from 1979 to 1981 and the Energy and Industry Committee from 1981 to 1983. From 1972 to 1983 he was a member of the enlarged Foreign and Constitutional Committee. From 1977 to 1981 he was president of Odelstinget. He was a member of the Great Britain delegation to the Nordic Council for most years from 1973 to 1983, and he has also been a delegate to the UN General Assembly. Asbjørn Haugstvedt was active in local politics in Bergen both before and after as a staging representative. He was a member of the Bergen City Council from 1959 to 1971 and from 1991 to 1995. He was a member of the county from 1995 to 1999. He was also a member of various municipal and other public committees, including the local authorities. a member of the Management Board of the Norwegian Municipal Bank for six years and a member of the Committee for Armour Control and Disarmament from 1975 to 1982. During the Korvald government 1972–73, Haugstvedt was the parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party's big group, and he was the vice-leader of the big group from 1977 to 1983. He also made a great effort in the Christian People's Party organization, both locally and centrally. as a member of the central government for a number of years and as vice-chairman of the national party from 1971 to 1975 and from 1977 to 1983. For several years he was the leader of the party newspaper The Future of the People. He became an honorary member of the Christian People's Party in 1991. Haugstvedt had a broad field of interest and was a versatile politician. He had a strong social commitment. He was also concerned with industrial development and development and liked to see the results of political work. With his broad political insight, he was able to participate in most political debates. The starting point for his political efforts and commitment was his Christian faith. He was a politician who “saw” his fellow human beings, and who was also sincerely interested in them. Through his political function, he has made a great effort for society. We remember Annemarie Lorentzen and Asbjørn Haugstvedt for their work on the Stortinget and light peace over their memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e98	Before considering the issues on today’s map, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the regulatory time, at 1 p.m. 16 until today's map has been processed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e114	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 267]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e128	As this is a presentation focusing on Europe, I will begin with some comments on the situation for our Nordic neighbouring country, NATO allies and EEA partner Iceland. Iceland is hard hit by the economic crisis. The seriousness of the situation suggests that from the Norwegian side we assess all possibilities for showing solidarity and solidarity with our brothers. The Prime Minister and several of my colleagues in the Government are in close and continuous dialogue with the Icelandic authorities on the development of the financial crisis. We also have close contact with the other Nordic countries. Our message is clear: Norway is in favour of assisting Iceland. The situation Iceland has come up in, is complicated and requires a thorough review. We have stressed that any Norwegian and Nordic support is based on Icelandic wishes and adapted to their needs. On this basis, the Prime Minister has sent a delegation from Oslo to Reykjavik which, yesterday and today, obtains an overview of the situation through several meetings with the Icelandic authorities. In addition to representatives from the Prime Minister's office, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Bank of Norway, a Swedish official also participates in the delegation. These meetings will provide a good background for assessing Norwegian actions and for the discussion between the Nordic Prime Ministers, Foreign Ministers and Finance Ministers at the beginning of the next week during the Nordic Council session in Helsinki. Let me add that we have had contact about supportive measures even before this acute crisis occurred. In May of this year, a currency swap was concluded between the Icelandic central bank and the Scandinavian central banks of EUR 1.5 billion. On October 14th, Iceland drew 200 million. EUR from Norway and Denmark, respectively, to a total of 400 million. euro. This aid is valued in Iceland. At the Brussels European Council of 15-16. In October, Denmark and Sweden made a reference to Iceland’s difficult situation in the conclusions. Solidarity with Iceland is expressed as an EEA country and its efforts require support from the international community. This applies to the economic side of the case. That, of course, is also a political aspect. We want to support our brothers, who experience challenging times. It's about solidarity, but it's also about our desire to help Iceland, our ally, remain a vital player in the important work of ensuring stability and predictability in the North Atlantic, which is now experiencing increased traffic of many kinds. In the previous EU and EEA statement – 22 April – I said that these presentations give us the opportunity to discuss developments in our neighbourhoods. I started today with Iceland. In April, the EU’s internal development was in focus. Since then, the institutional reform in the EU has met with reprisals, following Ireland’s refusal to the Lisbon Treaty in June. At the same time, 24 of the 27 Member States' parliaments have ratified the Treaty. The pressure on Member States to find a solution is therefore considerable. By the end of the year, parliaments in the Czech Republic and Sweden are also expected to have approved the agreement. The outcome of the ratification process will have a major impact on the further development of EU cooperation, and that is what we will follow closely from Norway. In the last few months, we have seen that current events have a crucial role to play in the EU agenda. Keywords for the French Presidency have become the war in Georgia and the international financial crisis. These are events that challenge all EU countries and test the EU’s ability to meet the challenges together. There is reason to recognise France’s efforts to take initiatives on behalf of the EU. The EU became the central external player contributing to the peace agreement in the Caucasus. And the EU formed the framework for European countries’ efforts to coordinate responses to the financial crisis. At the same time, the latest crisis shows that each country has emphasised its own needs for action in accordance with its own traditions and considerations. It's not unnatural. But overall, by this crossroads, we have seen more coordination and interconnection between Europe's central economies than at previous crossroads. The government has been in constant contact with the organs of the Storting regarding the outbreak of war in the Caucasus. Let me briefly mention and underline Norway's position: It is a dramatic event when two states in Europe end up in full-scale acts of war on contentious political and territorial issues. Europe is above all a continent with a political and diplomatic toolbox that would provide countries with good opportunities to seek non-military solutions. It didn't work that way. Georgia is undoubtedly not without responsibility for the outbreak of the conflict. Equally full, there was reason to indicate a clear distance from the scope and scope of the Russian military action. The action and its scope were a breach of European and international rules and standards, and it was rightly or wrongly perceived as a signal that Russian leaders are willing to use military power in an international conflict. The recognition of South Ossetia and Abkhasia violates Georgia's territorial integrity and cannot be accepted. The actions create an impression of a return to a major-action policy that we have to regret and distance ourselves from. Time will show how marked a violation of Russian foreign policy – as we know it in recent years – this is actually. Signals suggest that the contrasts between Russia and western countries have increased. And Russian language usage has sometimes been confrontational and aggressive, including indications of a new strategy that includes the right to so-called spheres of interest. It is essential to mitigate the level of conflict internationally. Norway, like the EU, has given clear opinions on the conflict, and we have followed the same lead in our opinions. We have supported the EU's active efforts to contribute to the cessation of acts of war and to bring the conflict into a political path. The channels of Russia must be kept open. It is worth noting that Russia has seen the EU as a channel in the conflict over Georgia. With the French Presidency at the head, the EU negotiated the six-point agreement between the parties in the first phase of the conflict and the follow-up agreement of 8 September. Under this agreement, all Russian troops were to be out of undisputed Georgian territory within 10 days of the deployment of a minimum of 200 EU observers in Georgia. The Russian troops were to be withdrawn to the positions they had before the war broke out. The EU followed up its part of the agreement and deployed its civil observers within the deadline. Consequently, it remained for Russia to withdraw by 10 October. In an opinion on the same day, the High Representative of the EU, Solana, stated that the Russian troops had been withdrawn from the former ‘buffering zones’ outside the outbreak areas. On this basis, the EU appears ready to proceed with the implementation of the agreements from 12 August and 8 September. Norway signalled its willingness towards the EU to contribute to this ESDP operation, but it was not initially opened up to contributions from third countries. However, the EU has appreciated the Norwegian offer and has announced that it may be appropriate to accept it at a later stage. The EU also took rapid initiatives to strengthen international support for reconstruction and development in Georgia. A donor conference held in Brussels yesterday showed the support of the international community for the country. From the Norwegian side, we signaled a strengthening of our support for Georgia's economic development. From our side, we have also focused on strengthening contact with Georgian authorities and even taking an eye on the situation by visiting both Tbilisi and Gori at the beginning of the month, when State Secretary Raymond Johansen was there. Based on the needs expressed by Georgia itself, we are planning to increase support in 2009, with emphasis on, among other things. humanitarian aid, democratic governance and the development of the hydropower sector. As the Stortinget is familiar with, Georgia's President Saakashvili is making a long planned visit to Oslo next week. Let me add that we have again been shown the problems associated with the use of class ammunition. We have addressed this with both sides, which we believe have been guilty of using this type of weapon. We have recalled the conference on the signing of a Convention against Class Weapons to be held in Oslo at the beginning of December. From the Norwegian side, we have also actively and continuously supported the role of the OSCE in the conflict. The Finnish OSCE Presidency deserves tribute for speeding up the challenges and ensuring a strengthened OSCE presence in the area. Here we also participate from the Norwegian side, and we have agreed to increase the contribution to a total of 10-12 military observers if there was to be an agreement in the OSCE on such an expanded presence. The Council of Europe has also, with the support of, among others, Norway — committed itself. The Swedish Minister for Foreign Affairs now heads the Ministerial Committee and called for an informal ministerial meeting at the margins of the United Nations General Assembly in New York last month. Here, there was agreement to carry out specific monitoring of Russia’s and Georgia’s compliance with their obligations as members of the Council of Europe. We now expect an increase in the number of cases promoted by the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, probably both from the Georgian side and from citizens of the South Ossetia. This again demonstrates the importance of the instruments owned by the Council of Europe. It must be obvious that Russia is complying with its obligations as a permanent member of the UN Security Council, as a member of the Council of Europe and the OSCE, and as a central cooperation partner for both NATO and the EU. Norway has a good bilateral relationship with Russia. We're going to keep having that. I have had frank conversations with my Russian colleague over the past few weeks about a number of issues. Norway has clearly stated our view of Russia’s use of military power, bilaterally and in conjunction with NATO and the EU. The Georgia conflict has had a major negative impact on the Russian economy, and Russia's reputation is weakened in international business. The Georgia conflict also led to the EU suspending negotiations on a new partnership and cooperation agreement with Russia while the Commission is reviewing the broad range of EU relations with Russia. This review will be presented to the EU Foreign Minister’s meeting on 10 and 11 November and form the basis for a decision on whether to resume negotiations on the agreement. That same week, the EU and Russia meet at a summit. While we want a solution to the conflict created in Georgia, normalisation is also in our interest. I therefore hope that the EU-Russia Summit on 14 November can contribute in this direction. In my opinion — and from a general perspective — this situation underlines the need to continue working to expand and strengthen the Euro-Atlantic cooperation institutions. That is what is the way to a more peaceful Europe. Norway will contribute to this at European level and in our neighbourhoods. Let me point out here that, bilaterally and through the Northern Region Strategy of the Government, we have been committed to building stable cooperation with Russia on visible, concrete actions. The practical approach in border areas, coupled with an open, direct dialogue with the Moscow authorities, I believe that I have given us a solid platform for the development of bilateral relations. Let me here acknowledge the implementation of the recent visit of the Swedish Defence Committee to Russia. The visit was, as I have been referred to, marked by open and direct speech with central and regional authorities. In addition, a status overview is provided of the implementation of the North Sea Strategy and project cooperation with Russia in St.prp. No 1, Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The EU also has a diverse framework for relations with its neighbouring countries in the east. The main instruments are the strategic partnership with Russia and the European Neighbourhood Policy with other eastern neighbouring countries. Norway has close contact with the EU on cooperation with Russia. We participate, among other things: in a programme called Kolarctic, which is now designed to strengthen border regional cooperation between Russian, Norwegian, Swedish and Finnish regions in the north. We also have close contact with the EU on cooperation with Ukraine, Belarus, Moldova and the Caucasian Republics. At the same time, the Commission is working on the EU Strategy for the Baltic Sea Region, where relations with Russia are central. Norway participates in the work on this strategy. Part of our work is channelled through the Northern Dimension, which is a common platform for cooperation in the EU, where Russia, Norway and Iceland participate equally. A ministerial meeting within this framework takes place in St. Petersburg on Tuesday next week. The European Commission participates in the Barents Cooperation, where Russia and Norway are key actors. Baltic Sea cooperation is also an important part of this architecture. Cooperation on energy, BASREC, is one example of practical cooperation between Russia and the EU countries around the Baltic Sea on concrete, complex challenges. In other words, Norway is a participant — or supporter — in many of the processes that contribute to linking East and West in Europe. Our relationship with Russia and our relationship with the EU make this natural. All of this is a central part of the Government's active European policy and Northern Region policy. Furthermore, in this statement, I would like to focus on two other major areas of concern in an EU and EEA context that are important for us to follow closely: firstly, justice and domestic cooperation, with emphasis on migration policy, and secondly, the climate and energy package. The April speech addressed research, as well as climate issues, as well as research. First to judicial and domestic cooperation: The French Presidency of the European Union has wanted to focus specifically on migration policy. In July, the Council of the European Union was presented with a proposal for an asylum and migration pact that addresses all the important challenges in this area of policy. I remind you that in 2009, the Government will present a big message on Norwegian refugee and migration policy in a European perspective. Norwegian asylum and immigration policies must be designed in relation to broad international developments. Sustainable policies in this area must relate to global migration flows and to the refugee and migration policies of our European neighbours. Migration policies and integration policies are influenced by each other and the integration policies of the EU countries are also of interest to us. In this policy, countries have retained their national decision-making powers. However, the Commission has developed a common framework for integration and established a network of national contact points. The government has been given permanent observer status in this network and is taking part in several EU Ministerial Conferences on Integration. However, the EU Member States have little wish to unite on a common policy on legal immigration. This is an area that has been viewed as a national issue. However, the many amnesties in several of the countries are examples of the fact that national affairs have a greater indirect impact on the rest of the countries. Countries that have given such amnesties have had to endure criticism — this is because the general regularisation of persons without legal residence can have a strengthening effect on human trafficking and illegal immigration. The EU uses a lot of resources to combat this. In the Asylum and Migration Pact, which was adopted at the summit last week, France has taken the EU a step further towards a common policy on legal immigration. The Pact states that there will be an annual discussion on developments in Member States' immigration and asylum policies. The EU wants a more effective regulation of family immigration and an ambitious policy to promote integration. The Pact also expresses an agreement to limit the use of general regularisations. Through Schengen cooperation, Norway is part of the open travel freedom area in Europe. This means that EU-designed policy – whether formally linked or not – will also have an impact in this area on Norway’s policy choices. This year, we have seen a sharp increase in the number of asylum arrivals in Norway. This may have several reasons. Part of the explanation is related to the policies and practices of our neighbouring countries. One example is that when Sweden gets an agreement to return to Iraq, more Iraqi asylum seekers come here. The return of those who are not legally resident to their country of origin is an important condition for the protection of those in need of protection. It is important in order to maintain the integrity of the asylum institution. In recent years, the EU has been working to establish a legislation on the return of those who do not have a legal residence. The Council of the European Union agreed in June on a directive to harmonise return procedures and procedures. This Return Directive is expected to be adopted at the EU Council meeting tomorrow, 24 October. This is relevant to us in the Schengen context, and from the Norwegian side, we have worked to ensure that the directive is as compliant as possible with the current Norwegian law. Incorporating into Norwegian law will equally bring about some changes in foreign law. European countries have had different return practices. When harmonised legislation is to be put in place, different countries will have to adapt in different areas. Let me give you one example. With regard to the duration of the travel ban, the starting point is that a temporary or permanent entry ban can be imposed both in force and in the new Norwegian law on foreigners. The general rule under the Return Directive is that an entry ban shall not be valid for more than five years. In addition, the Return Directive also provides for the right to free legal aid. It is necessary to clarify whether these provisions will lead to changes in our own legal aid system. The Ministry of Labour and Inclusion, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, will prepare letters of consultation with legislative amendments and then a motion for a resolution which will be submitted to the Stortinget. This work is now being started during the autumn. In February of this year, the European Commission, as part of the ‘border package’, proposed the establishment of an electronic system for the storage of third-country nationals’ entry and exit dates across the external borders of the Schengen area – an ‘electronic entry and exit system’. It could be an effective mechanism to identify third-country nationals legally entering Schengen but who do not leave again within the deadline. In addition, the system will open up a simpler border crossing for so-called bona fide travellers, i.e. travelers we have reason to believe will follow the rules. This can open up opportunities for our way of enforcing our control of the Schengen external border in the north. Now, today, when 108 000 people cross the border of Storskog every year, and when our Consulate General in Murmansk grants 98 pst. Of the visa applications, it goes without saying that there is no need to spend the same amount of time and resources on each one of those who want to cross this border. In other words, we need a system that both facilitates a simplified electronic border crossing for so-called bona fide travellers and at the same time meets the requirements of good control. This is an important element of the North Region Initiative. The EU's proposals are in the early stages. First, technical feasibility and costs shall be assessed. A concrete proposal from the European Commission is not expected until 2010. In the light of our experience with EU legislation in similar areas, we have reason to believe that the system will be developed in line with fundamental data protection principles and that fundamental rights will be respected, including the right to seek asylum. For us, this will be an important consideration for our active participation in this legislative development process. Another part of that «frontier package» is the proposal of the European Commission for a system for the electronic monitoring of external borders, with particular emphasis on the southern maritime borders and the eastern borders. The overall element of the concept — called Eurosur — is the establishment of a common technical framework to support national efforts in border management and to promote cooperation between Member States and with the third countries concerned. The proposal points to a three-stage development towards 2013, the ultimate aim of which is to create an integrated electronic border monitoring system. In the first phase, the Commission proposes to establish national coordination centres in each participating country. Our connection to Schengen cooperation also involves participation in parts of EU police cooperation. However, this goes deeper than what is part of Schengen cooperation; for example: EU legislation on enhanced police cooperation, the so-called Prüm acquis, is outside the scope of Schengen cooperation. The main element of this legislation is the improved possibilities for the exchange of information between police acts in EU Member States. One important measure is that countries should provide access to other country police authorities for searches into national DNA, fingerprint and vehicle databases. It also contains comprehensive provisions on data security and privacy. My point is this: the Prüm Code is a new and important contribution to strengthening police cooperation. For the Government, it is important that Norway too can relate to this. France has indicated that they wish to conclude negotiations with Norway during their Presidency. We welcome that. So to another area: I reviewed the EU climate and energy package in April, and I will come back to this issue now. At the EU Summit last week, some countries expressed a desire for greater flexibility in the objectives and timetable of the climate and energy package in the light of the financial crisis. However, the EU remains committed to the objective of reaching political agreement on the content of the package before the end of the year. According to the plan, the European Parliament shall be able to examine the whole package in one reading in mid-December and a formal Council decision may take place early in 2009. As with asylum and migration policy, the French Presidency has given high priority to climate change. There is a broad consensus that it is important for the EU to establish clear positions in good time before the Copenhagen climate summit in December 2009. The main elements of the climate and energy package are expected to be EEA-relevant. With its comprehensive proposals in the field of climate and energy, the EU has marked their position as an international leader, with ambitious targets for CO2 reductions and for the use of renewable energy. The EU establishes rules on climate change which can have global significance across a broad field and which will then certainly have an impact on our country. The Commission announces even higher EU emission reduction targets if there is international consensus on global solutions after 2012. In April, I mentioned Norway's significant research cooperation with the EU and worked to create a so-called ‘road map’ for research infrastructures in Europe. It is therefore gratifying to say that two proposals from Norway, both related to climate research, are set to enter the up-to-date road map. There is a project on carbon capture and storage and another project on Svalbard as a research platform. This will strengthen Svalbard as an international lighthouse for climate and environmental research. Another important part of the climate and energy package is the Renewable Energy Directive, where the EU undertakes to increase its share of renewable energy in the so-called energy mix from 8,5 pst. from 2005 to 20 pst. in 2020. The increase commitments are disparate among countries, inter alia: depending on their level of GDP. In the ETS Directive and other parts of the climate and energy package, the EU also allocates obligations according to the economic capacity of the countries. This opens up opportunities for increased joint efforts for the EU. We have high ambitions in renewable energy and are therefore pleased with the EU's commitment in this area. At the same time, Norway is in a different situation from the other European countries, except Iceland, in terms of renewable energy. We already have a much higher share of renewable energy than any EU country, about 60 p.p., mostly due to hydropower. The draft renewable directive is now before the European Parliament for adoption by the Spring 2009 Council of the European Union. The government is working to follow up Norwegian interests in this matter. The development of Norwegian renewable energy is closely linked to cooperation in the Nordic countries and Europe. It will also be important for us in the future to participate in pan-European markets. My point is this: Norway has a unique position in contributing to European energy supply. Taking care of and further developing Norwegian advantages and assumptions, in interaction with European partners, will provide a clue to the Government’s policy towards the EU in this area. We have been out early to give CO2 emissions a price. We produce more renewable energy in relation to our consumption than any EU country. We have gone into the gap for the capture and storage of CO2. We are now experiencing increasing upsurges about the investment in this type of technology. This theme is on the table in almost all of our meetings with EU colleagues. Norwegian experts have also contributed to the design of EU legislation. The government looks forward to the EU – such as the climate and energy package – facilitating up to 12 CO2 capture pilot plants. However, the funding of the pilot projects has not been clarified. Norway will work actively to support carbon capture and storage in Europe. This is a field in which Norwegian efforts can make a difference. The fight against climate change brings me to some more relevant EEA issues. The government has set ambitious targets for CO2 management. Norwegian CO2 capture and storage efforts are one of several contributions to meeting the climate challenges. Therefore, it was decided to support a test facility for the capture of CO2 related to the Mongstad refinery. Our starting point in the notification of the test centre to ESA, the EFTA Surveillance Authority, was that we considered that the State should be able to contribute to the development of technologies that are important for reducing CO2 emissions. It is therefore gratifying that ESA has now assessed the organisation of its efforts for the Mongstad test centre as legal State aid. This is an important project in the European climate context. The agreement on CO2 management in Mongstad is a key element in the development of forward-looking technologies for the capture and storage of CO2. However, the aim is not just to capture CO2 from one specific plant in Norway. The ambition is to contribute to the wide application of such technologies. Then we have to organize ourselves so that we contribute in the best possible way to just this. It is the government's view that state contributions will be absolutely necessary for the best projects to be put in place. In May 2008 the Ministry of the Environment concluded an agreement with 14 business organisations on the reduction of emissions of nitrogen oxides, NOx. These organisations shall contribute to Norway’s compliance with the NOx obligations under the so-called Gothenburg Protocol by ensuring that annual emissions are reduced by 30000 tonnes by the end of 2011. The government is pleased that ESA has approved the Norwegian NOx solution, which is a combination of charge and agreement with industry. The agreement may lead to the use of large-scale NOx reducing technologies and reductions in NOx emissions. The government has now made a run to ensure that Norway implements the necessary emission reductions to comply with our NOx obligations in the Gothenburg Protocol as soon as practicable. The Government received on 16 July this year the decision of ESA on the allocation of allowances in the Norwegian climate allowance system for the 2008-2012 period. The monitoring body had objections to some elements of the Norwegian system. The objections were not related to the environmental ambitions of the allowance system. So the government's ambitions for an environmentally sound allowance system, with a tight allocation, are still solid. It is essential for the Government to be able to establish an ambitious system of allowances with a tight allocation. Our system will also contribute to effective national and global emission reductions, following the adjustments resulting from the ESA's objections, and will strengthen the European system. The government's ambition is to have the allocation in place by the end of the year. I have pointed out in previous presentations that changes in the EU approach can pose a challenge for Norway, because the changes are not automatically captured by the way the EEA Agreement is structured. Let me give you one more example of such an evolution. In a broader European policy perspective, we are now seeing a growing trend in the EU where the European Commission and the EU Presidency launch comprehensive strategies and legislative packages to precisely signal the priority of a policy area. The climate and energy package is such an example. The treatment of such comprehensive packages is demanding both for the EU Member States and for the EU institutions. They also provide Norway with some significant challenges. Formally, through the EEA and Schengen, Norway will normally be affected by important content in such packages. And normally, we want – and normally it will be expected from us – to act actively on the whole spectrum of policy. The challenges associated with dealing with EU cross-sectoral proposals are reinforced by the increasing importance of the European Parliament. Negotiations in the European Parliament and between the Council and Parliament have become more important, which in turn has led to a stronger focus on the work of the European Parliament in Brussels and Strasbourg. The important thing for us is to engage as early as possible in the processes, so that we can design Norwegian positions at the right stage. One such package now under way is the Commission's proposal on a social agenda, called access to the labour market and social services, opportunities for all and solidarity between generations, i.e. a cross-sectoral package in the areas of employment, social policy, equal treatment, health, migration and education. The aim of the package is to develop the social dimension of the EU at a time of globalisation and changing social patterns and patterns of life. The package contains 19 different measures in form and content. The most concrete thing so far is three proposals for directives on cooperation committees in the labour market, non-discrimination and cross-border healthcare. In particular, these three proposals directly affect us and are relevant for inclusion in the EEA Agreement. So let me briefly mention the three: Firstly, on cooperation committees, which are not really a new scheme, but a revision of the existing directive: through European cooperation committees, employees of multinational enterprises are better informed and consulted about changes and restructuring. The Directive will affect 15 million workers in the EU, represented by 19 000 trustees. The present proposal seeks to clarify the terms ‘information’ and ‘consultation’ and introduces, inter alia: new procedures if existing agreements are to be amended or terminated, as well as more mandatory meetings and more stringent reporting requirements. So second, the objective of the Non-Discrimination Directive is to prohibit discrimination in society on the basis of religion, faith, age, disability and sexual orientation. Existing legislation applies specifically to employment, including gender discrimination. The proposal for a directive is thus the last stage of EU non-discrimination legislation. It underlines that individual countries can regulate their own marriage laws, adoption laws and relations with church and religious communities. And then to the third: the aim of the proposed directive on patients' rights in cross-border healthcare is, among other things, establishing a framework ensuring the free movement of healthcare and protecting the health of EU citizens. At the same time, it shall ensure sufficient clarity on the right to reimbursement of healthcare costs received in another EU or EEA country and that healthcare is provided safely, efficiently and of high quality. The right of Member States to organise and provide healthcare themselves shall continue to be fully respected. The Commission states that the provisions of the proposed directive on the right to cover expenditure are primarily a codification of case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. So far on the European Commission’s proposal – or ‘package’ – on a social agenda. Let me briefly mention three other questions in the end. As regards the Services Directive, on 1 July this year the Government sent out a consultation note on this Directive at a wide public consultation with a deadline of 20 October. Since the adoption of the Services Directive in the EU, the Ministry of Industry and Trade has chaired a working group that has identified possible changes to Norwegian law as a result of the Directive. In addition, six external environments commissioned by NHD have identified specific issues related to the Services Directive. The consultation note presents the outcome of these investigations and reviews the content and impact of the Services Directive. The note reviews different solutions for the implementation of the Services Directive in Norwegian law if it is incorporated into the EEA Agreement. The Government will, after this consultation round, go thoroughly through all available material on the Directive before deciding whether to include it in the EEA Agreement. This matter concerns important aspects of Norway. It is about services, which are a large and growing part of the economies of European countries. And it raises questions about our ability to continue and further develop our policies on the protection of employees' rights. In other words, an important matter that deserves a thorough review before the Government concludes for its part. In this context, the government will place the decisive emphasis on the rights of workers and our high level of ambition in the fight against social dumping. During the autumn, the European Parliament shall examine the proposal for a so-called agency directive and a proposal for amendments to the existing working time directive. The objective of the former is to ensure equal treatment between temporary agency employees and ordinary employees. It is assumed that both Directives may be of EEA relevance, but the adaptations to Norwegian law, where appropriate, are not yet clarified. I would also like to add that we are now – as the bodies of Storting are familiar with – starting negotiations with the EU on new financial contributions to economic and social cohesion in the EEA. Negotiations will be demanding and the aim is to reach an agreement in good time before the end of today’s arrangements on 30 April 2009. The Government will normally keep in touch with the bodies of the Storting regarding the development of the negotiations. Finally, I would like to inform you that the Government launched the EEA notebase on the Europaportal – i.e. an Internet portal in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – two months ago, 22 August. The public now has direct transparency in the work of the administration with EU legislation under consideration included in the EEA Agreement. The publication of the EEA Notebase will make it easier for both experts and the general interest to keep themselves informed about EU legislative work that has implications for Norway. The website will also inform about the EEA Agreement and its functioning. The EEA portal is a good tool in catching up and taking decisions on new EU initiatives as early as possible. Direct transparency of EEA work is of great importance to the principle of more openness and is therefore in line with the Government’s objective of an open and active European policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e370	The President will now propose that the Foreign Minister’s statement on important EU and EEA matters be discussed at a later meeting — and see it as agreed. At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that matters be dealt with as follows: 3 and 4 will be treated under one – and see it as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e397	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each representative and 10 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that 5 replies be given to comments from members of the Government – within the allocated speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e404	I would also like to take the opportunity to address the difficult situation that Iceland, our Nordic neighbour, has experienced. As a result of the financial crisis that has marked the country in a brutal way, life has turned down too many Icelanders. In recent years, like us Northmen, Icelanders have had a very good economy. Solid wage growth and tax relief have given rise to a good increase in wealth. But now the Icelandic economy is in free fall. I think we must now show what Nordic solidarity stands for. We have to support a neighbor who needs help. Close to historical and cultural ties, while having a self-interest in preventing the destruction of a neighbouring country. It would bring the worst results of the financial crisis even closer to us. Today's situation requires more than comforting words. I'm glad you now have an active dialogue. Concrete action is required now. 300,000 Icelanders should notice that neighbors care when it comes to it. The aim should be to get Iceland back on its feet as soon as possible, so that they can work out of the crisis for their own machinery — in other words, help for self-help. I will now point to some of the most important points in St.meld. No 36 for 2007-2008 on Nordic cooperation. Much indicates that Nordic cooperation will become even more important to us, including the United States and Japan. as an indication of the region’s membership of a Europe of regions. For Norway, the Nordic region is particularly important because Norway is not a member of the EU. Furthermore, I would like to commend the Nordic Prime Ministers for their initiative to promote a common Nordic effort to meet challenges and opportunities related to globalisation. However, I am somewhat skeptical that follow-up activities should be financed mainly within the current budgetary framework of the Nordic Council of Ministers. This implies reductions of 2-10 pst. in all sectors of the budget, while on the cultural side there may be further cuts. This affects a number of activities in many important policy areas in which it is not necessary to cut them off without delay. I would have liked to see that the process ahead of such a priority had been characterized by more transparency and dialogue. In order to ensure sustainable funding for the Globalisation Initiative, the Committee considers that a review of the priorities of the budget is necessary. In addition, a number of other initiatives have been undertaken within the framework of the Nordic Council of Ministers. Some of the most important are to ensure that Nordic citizens can move as freely as possible in the Nordic region, i.e. a continued strong focus on cooperation to remove frontier barriers. Climate and environment are on the agenda, trafficking and prostitution. The Norwegian Presidency and the work of the Arctic Council are also important. I would also like to underline the importance of the Nordic Council of Ministers' neighbouring country cooperation. This is particularly true following the invasion of Georgia by Russia in August 2008. Russia then announced a more ongoing neighbourhood policy, especially towards countries in the former Soviet Union and countries with Russian minorities. In view of this, the Committee considers that the cooperation of the Nordic Council of Ministers with neighbouring countries should be continued and strengthened. I would like to emphasise that the Council of Ministers has launched its own Russia programme and otherwise is closely linked to EU policy and the Northern Dimension, where the Council of Ministers is a participant. Furthermore, the Nordic Council of Ministers cooperates with the EU on democratic support for Belarus, and this must continue. Finally, I would like to say a few words about defence cooperation between Norway, Sweden and Finland. Nordic defence cooperation has become much more extensive, giving priority to both professional and political groups. Cooperation is proving to work well despite different anchoring in the EU and NATO. At the same time, the Committee stresses that NATO remains the cornerstone of Norwegian security policy and that increased Nordic defence and security cooperation must be seen within an alliance framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e423	Nordic cooperation is becoming increasingly important in a globalised world. The recent financial crisis as well as the Nordic position in the world shows that there is no contradiction between a large Community-oriented public sector and a well-developed economy. The 2009 budget of the Nordic Council, which is the most important political document to be considered at the Nordic Council, was this year an incredibly little smooth process between parliamentarians and the Council of Ministers. I must say that I think the Council of Ministers is arrogant towards the parliamentary side. Governments can not just ask for money and do not explain what the money will be used for. The budget remains under-transparent, the globalisation initiatives too under-performing, there are too many projects – almost 1800 – without success criteria. At all events, it is impossible for parliamentarians to have an influence on this. This is going to be recorded in the session. I do not understand why the government side does not view parliamentarians as co-players and as an opportunity, instead of looking at us as a problem. Nordic cooperation continues to show its relevance in many areas. One of the areas where Nordic politicians are particularly concerned is what affects people who live their lives in several Nordic countries. A young Norwegian nurse student sits one month before graduation at a school in Denmark. Until recently she prepared to take her exam in Norwegian, but recently she was told that this must be done in Danish. So there's a Nordic language convention that allows her to use Norwegian, but the knowledge of this and the interpretation is very different. This also needs to be changed. For many years, the Nordic Council has been working to build up bureaucratic problems for people when they see the Nordics as a sea of opportunity. The number of people who live in one country and work in another, who are in a mixed Nordic marriage, who have earned a pension in Sweden but are paid in Norway, etc., is many. It is important that we Nordic politicians work actively to prevent these people from experiencing double taxation, being deprived of maternity leave or falling between two countries' bureaucratic chairs in many ways. The Nordic Council is working on this. Many ask, and how? We're constantly bringing these questions up to the governments. But the interesting thing is, is does anyone want to do anything about it? So far, very little is being done with it, and it's no longer acceptable. But it is not enough for us to remove existing frontier barriers. Equally important is that we ensure ourselves and get into mechanisms that prevent new ones from emerging. I am pleased with the Norwegian Minister of Justice's understanding and willingness to look at this, as expressed when the delegation met him a few months ago. In fact, we must get documents to the Stortingen where it is explained whether this political proposal creates a new frontier barrier. So that's not how far we've been able to get it, but we're going to hang out. Environmental and energy cooperation, labour migration and a number of other areas are not limited to the Nordic countries or Norway. We need to cooperate with those countries and regions that affect development, in order to ensure that we can influence developments in Norway in these areas as well. That is why I am pleased that the Baltic Council is now doing a good job of reforming the way they work. The reform is important as long as it makes the Baltic Sea Council more operational and able to deal with the important areas of cooperation that exist. There are a number of areas of energy and climate development presented in a scenario where Norway is a particularly important player. On the parliamentary side, there is also a need for reform, and for the reasons I have mentioned, it is important that all national parliaments are represented in the Standing Committee on Parliamentary Affairs of the Baltic Sea. Norway is involved in paying for the fun, but we're not represented. We pay for full membership, but we are sitting in the hall – I had almost said here too – and that is not good enough! In the end, I have to deal with a matter that I know the governments are working on, namely the Nordic Development Fund Board. They have 1 billion euros, which some have planned to send to the World Bank with a loving greeting. That is what Nordic politicians believe is totally unacceptable. The Norwegian delegation has taken a decision on this, the Swedish delegation has taken a decision on it, and there is a lot to say about it. I do not have time for that now, but I would ask the Government to make further efforts to find a Nordic solution, because that is what the parliamentarians want.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e440	In many areas Nordic cooperation is important and beneficial for the Nordic countries. Nordic languages, common understanding and culture have been and are important areas that bind the Nordic countries together. The cooperation also extends beyond what you have to do per cent. definition may be limited to the Nordic region. I would like to mention here in particular the Arctic Council, the Northern Dimension and Barents Cooperation. There is little doubt that the people of the people of the North who have been working with them have also influenced Nordic cooperation and have been involved in Russia as a far more active participant than in previous years. During the visit to Arkhangelsk and Murmansk in the Nordic region earlier this autumn, Norway received so much praise for its initiative over 15 years in North-West Russia that representatives from the other Nordic countries baptized about the Nordic Council as the ‘Norwegian Council’. It must also be said that the importance of the Nordic Council and the influence of the Nordic parliamentarians should be much greater than it is today. The Nordic Council of Ministers and the Secretariat of Copenhagen, i.e. Bureaucracy, today has far too much power, and parliamentarians become nodded in a political scenario, where most of the financial resources and political decisions have been decided and adopted before coming to debate in plenary. When the Secretariat of Copenhagen has over 150 ongoing projects, which nobody really knows what is at stake, it is limited to what parliamentarians have. In addition, political decisions are not binding on any Nordic country, suggesting that each country relates only to Nordic cooperation where it is considered to be opportunistic. In Nordic cooperation, and especially in Norway, there is also a major democratic problem. The representatives of the Progress Party, which today make up 25 pst. by the Norwegian delegation, the possibility of being involved in the processes in which the decisions are actually taken shall be waived on any occasion. We are denied access to the Budget Group. There are, for example: SV represented with its one representative in the Nordic Council. Furthermore, none of the Progress Party can be elected into the Bureau. The party of progress is systematically squandered, and it is sad that respect for democratic processes is not greater than it is in individual parties. At one moment you are against totalitarian regimes, while at the next moment you are working towards democratic processes. The Nordic Council's work on removing border barriers, on environmental issues, on combating trafficking and trafficking in human beings and on combating HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis is important, but it must be acknowledged that there is a fast-track system where things take too much time. I see that you want a common Nordic convention. The big question here, and what has to happen in that context, is that there has to be a common Nordic understanding of what should be the criteria or the definition of what is Sami or the same. As it is today, this understanding is in e.g. Norway and Finland are very different. Finland has completely different definitions of what is Sami. There you choose to put the concept of work and culture at the bottom of what is Sami, in Norway you choose to use ethnicity, which is supposed to be at the heart of it. For this reason, Finland also has a much lower share of the same per year. definition than what we have in Norway. There are many conceptual differences in the Nordic region regarding this type of definition. What are women in Finland is often the same in Norway, and who in Finland is not the same as in Norway. In ancient times we had a country in Finland called Kvenland, and it stretched from a little north of Turku around the Gulf of Bothnia. This is called women in Finland, but very many of them are called cohabitants in Norway. If a common convention is to be established, these terms have to be clarified.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e457	In a world characterized by Russians of many kinds, Nordic cooperation is unusually safe and idyllic. It may be both a strength and a weakness, because Nordic cooperation feels so safe and so of course, that we often lack imagination and willingness to exploit the capital accumulated over more than 50 years in new and challenging situations. At the same time, it is also within the Nordic family as it is in all good families, that one has easily used the opportunities available to fight together. I attended the Arctic Parliamentary Conference in Fairbanks, Alaska this August. The conference was opened by the then governor, who was then promoted to the Vice-President’s candidate – probably on the basis of the course. The interesting thing about the Arctic Conference this time was that there was no way to discuss between, for example, the United States and Japan. the Nordic countries and Russia, the United States or Canada. On the other hand, it was kept going for two days with an intense towing on whether the opinion of the conference should refer to a meeting which had taken place in Greenland following an invitation from the Danish Minister for Foreign Affairs. The background was that Iceland had not been invited, and felt very hurt about it. So you could use an entire conference time, for two whole days, to fight over whether to mention a meeting that de facto had taken place, or not to mention it. This is an example of family problems. At my discretion, in today's situation, we should raise our eyes and look at the opportunities offered by established, secure Nordic cooperation to meet the challenges of a turbulent world and in a turbulent Europe. The financial crisis and Iceland's situation are a reminder that neither are we in the Nordic region protected against or protected from major political and economic shocks. And that's a challenge. How do we relate to it when we suddenly have, in order to use a classical formulation, a brother in need? We should be able to handle that in the Nordic family. In the field of foreign and security policy cooperation, a very timely initiative has been taken by our former foreign minister, Thorvald Stoltenberg, who has been commissioned to provide a study on the possibilities of the current situation and of closer and more effective cooperation between the Nordic countries in the years to come. This is not least in the light of the problem that we are now seeing, namely that we have all stepped down the resource use of the Defence, relatively speaking, while at the same time experiencing a new security policy situation that should really be the opposite. In this context, it is essential that we discuss how to coordinate activities, for example: exercises and training, and how to coordinate investment programmes in order to achieve a greater impact on security policy without the need to seize more of the total resources available to each country. I see that in its position the committee unanimously refers to this, expressing its satisfaction and positive attitude to the outcome of this study. I hope that the forthcoming meeting of the Nordic Council in Helsinki will concentrate quite a lot of its energy politically and its attention on just the new situation that has arisen and what Nordic cooperation can contribute to this new situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e470	The interests of Nordic cooperation are growing. It's probably due to more relationships. Increased regionalisation in Europe, the EU’s enlargement has pushed closer cooperation between neighbouring countries, and stronger international competition, often called globalisation, has created a recognition of the need for cooperation. The so-called Globalisation Strategy in the Nordic region is a direct result of such recognition. An investigation by a Danish investigating institute concluded that Nordic countries should take advantage of their comparative advantages, Nordic cooperation must be speeded up. Recording that the Nordic countries are doing well in international competition is one thing, another is understanding and taking on board what the comparative advantages can be explained by. The strategy of globalisation is comprehensive and has taken on board the fact that there are fundamental conditions in the Nordic societies that create these advantages. That is why, when we talk about globalisation, we also focus on understanding the Nordic welfare societies and expanding them. Good safety nets, stable conditions in the labour market, etc. In addition, progress has been made in the construction of border barriers in the Nordic region. This is an old case for the Nordic Council, and important steps have been taken. Nevertheless, there has been a recurring case that always arouses great commitment. The new Border Obstacle Forum, which is at work, has been committed to making new progress. One thing is to build up established barriers, another is to prevent new ones from emerging. The Ministry and Government have a primary responsibility for carrying out the necessary investigations to identify whether new legislative proposals and other rules create new frontier barriers. It must be incorporated as a requirement, in line with the requirement to provide information on the economic consequences of any proposal. Although the main responsibility lies with the proposers, i.e. in the departments and government, it would be natural if such control were also included in the work of the committees. I note that the Presidency does not agree with such an assessment when, in a letter to the Committee on Borders, it will not make it a firm practice for the Committee. I'll ask the Presidency to reconsider the question. The response sent on the enquiry seems quite helpful to me. This question deserves a more thorough answer. It is an important enquiry that the Presidency has so far made on the table. In 2009, Denmark shall host the International Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen, which is a follow-up to the Kyoto Conference. The formalised Nordic cooperation, in the Council of Ministers and the Nordic Council, must be used deliberately for the coordination of positions and for the presentation of any good examples. The Nordic countries may be given an extra weight if they are able to co-ordinate and emerge as closely as possible with the same positions. In the Nordic region, we have a long tradition of extensive research cooperation. We all have high ambitions for future research efforts. This is necessary if we are to cope with the continuous conversion. There is reason to assume that we need to create heavy environments for cross-border cooperation beyond what is happening today. An extensive five-year programme, with a budget of several billion dollars, has been initiated. In addition, national funds are needed, both from private and public sources, as well as from the Nordic Council budget. The time has come to think of a Nordic framework programme for research, in line with the EU framework programmes. The situation in Nordic cooperation, in the Council of Ministers and the Nordic Council, is similar to what we often experience in other supranational organisations and structures. If we're going to be able to lift the new pick, we're going to have to be willing to look at the organization and structures. The relationship between the Council of Ministers and the Council must be reviewed, renewed and renewed. There's several reasons for that. The Council of Ministers is struggling to have time to give priority to the work. Moreover, so many ministerial councils are fragmented. The Secretariat in Copenhagen has a strong position, such as: leads to a self-interest in defending current structures and institutions. Budgetary unity clearly shows that what should and should be political disagreements boils down to the fight for revir and positions. Once one has come into such a situation, there is a clear need for a review of roles and power distribution. Nordic cooperation is too important to be influenced by defence of positions. That is why the time has come for a new borderup between parliamentarians, Council of Ministers and the secretariat. This will also require a comprehensive review of the Helsinki Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e487	As several others have mentioned in their articles, it is so that when friends are in distress, we reach out a helping hand. And in the Nordic circle of friends today, there is especially one country, Iceland, that is in serious trouble because of the financial crisis. It was surprising when we saw reports that Iceland saw the need to start negotiations with Russia on a larger loan. We had expected that one from the Norwegian and Nordic sides had been more active, faster to help our brothers over this difficult knee. Finally, a Norwegian delegation has travelled to discuss what you can contribute to Iceland. That's good, but it should have happened a long time ago. Nordic solidarity must stand its test when one needs it the most. Nordic cooperation premises were changed when some Nordic countries joined the EU, but in recent years Nordic cooperation has been revitalised in a number of areas. It concerns social security, civil crisis management preparedness, environmental challenges, defence cooperation, globalisation and action against international crime and terrorism. The attitude of the Foreign Affairs Committee shows that there is a cross-political consensus on much in Nordic cooperation. But it's also important that we put enough pressure on some priorities and some issues, so that we get practical results. Last year we held the Norwegian Presidency of the Nordic Council, when my colleague Dagfinn Høybrätten was President. From our point of view, we used that year to raise some issues in particular, and let me mention three. Firstly, I would like to mention cooperation to remove practical border barriers between Nordic countries, which many have been involved in today. There are still practical problems that need to be simplified, in the case of Norwegian commuters, in terms of entitlement to disability pension and other conditions. The cancellation message shows that the work here is slow, but we need to maintain the pressure to get better and simpler solutions. A pilot project has been established between the border municipalities of Lierne and Røyrvik and their Swedish neighbouring municipalities. This is an exciting project that I hope the Nordic Council will address. It is about cooperating both on industrial development and on public services, such as police, school and health services. It's about district municipalities on both sides of the border where you can do a lot to prevent a cross-border cooperation from moving away. Secondly, I would like to mention the work of raising the northern regions of Nordic cooperation. In 2005 the Bondevik II government presented St.meld. No 30, Possibilities and Challenges in the North. It meant a new promise to focus on the potential of the northern regions. Following the change of government, this has been followed up by a Northern Region strategy, and Minister of Foreign Affairs Støre has really contributed to the tension of expectations. Now the high expectations of the parties are not met, even if some important work is done. But everyday life has come, and that is disappointment, because the new state budget does not come true. I have noticed that several Nordic politicians from the Workers' Party publicly expressed their frustration at the lack of follow-up. I think two lessons need to be drawn: the expectations of the parties, and strengthening the practical effort. Let me draw up one specific issue that can vitalize cooperation in the northern regions. That's the idea of New Corridor, a transport corridor across Narvik between China and the United States. The crucial question now is whether the project has the support of the Government, and whether the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is actively contributing enough to promote the project in dialogue with China and Russia. We have asked questions about this from the Christian People's Party, and we hope for a positive answer. The third challenge I want to point out is the relationship with White Russia. The political situation in this neighbouring country is mildly mooting, the elections are a farce, the opposition is in a tight state. In this situation, we as Nordic neighbours must keep in touch with those who are fighting for democracy and human rights, but none of the Nordic countries have embassies in Belarus. The Christian People's Party wants us to take seriously the proposal to set up an information office for the Nordic Council of Ministers in Belarus. It can provide a useful interface in the work on inter-people relations, democratisation and human rights. Finally, it is important that we focus on the forces of Nordic cooperation that are important and time-relevant and that can be realised. Then Nordic cooperation can do the most good for the inhabitants. We must have fewer projects that have more pressure, and not spread on too many projects, which we have been doing for too many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e510	Nordic cooperation has great support among the inhabitants of the Nordic region. This support depends on the ability of the Nordic Council to cope with the people of the Nordic countries and the maritime areas through the issues raised. The themes in the configuration are important and comprehensive. I hear from the debate here that a lot is undone, and that people are impatient. That's good. My soul is new in this context, and I am happy to follow this work for a year now. My impression is that people in the Nordic region are fully behind the focus that the Nordic Council has given to climate and environmental issues. The Nordic Council is able to be up-to-date and capture what is happening in Nordic communities. The next week's Helsinki Summit will have to be central to the financial crisis and Iceland's situation. The financial crisis has also affected the other Nordic countries to some extent, but as mentioned above in particular, Iceland. We have also heard that many have been involved in this debate. It is important that we also look in the Nordic Council in the future at opportunities for closer follow-up and cooperation with Iceland on both financial and banking frameworks, as well as looking for other areas where we may have increased cooperation. I believe increased Nordic cooperation, especially more cooperation with Iceland in the future, is important. Possible areas of increased cooperation between countries may include food security, rescue services and defence. There may be increased cooperation on Arctic challenges, climate, increased shipping, etc., etc. The possibilities are great, and recent events have made increased cooperation in the Nordic region even more important. It is good that Norway has been open to cooperation. Nordic cooperation has a high focus on relationships that affect people in their daily lives. Cultural and educational cooperation remains the backbone of Nordic cooperation. In these areas, through the Nordic Council, we have facilitated broad participation. Also important are the various Nordic prizes, research cooperation, Nordic Cultural Fund, etc., as well as maritime cooperation in the voluntary sector and art and cultural programmes. It is also important to strengthen the common Nordic languages through the Nordic Language Declaration. All of this is evidence that, through our Nordic cooperation, we have reached far beyond the level of contact and action at government level. I am concerned that the Nordic Council highlights the preservation and development of the Nordic languages as an area of activity. This is important because language is identity and provides cultural maritime safety. It is also an important democratic tool. Political negotiations and documents in national languages make them available to the population. At a conference in Copenhagen this fall, this became very important with an understanding of the Nordic languages. Studies show that the languages of neighbouring countries are best understood by the Nordics. It's supposed to be better for everyone. Keywords here must be: school, language teaching, television programmes where you don't text but use the Nordic languages. And exams in their own language in other Nordic countries should be seaworthy. Some would claim that internationalisation and globalisation are themselves a threat to language diversity. I don't agree with that, and I'm not so sure. I think this is just as much about the political will to make internationalisation a positive thing for the languages of the world. It may also be that increased contact in our time can lead to diversity because it raises awareness about our own peculiarity – as it is also the peculiarity of others. The Nordic region should define itself as part of the diversity it is worth developing and preserving. Increased interest in Nordic languages may also increase interest in other languages. Language is the gateway to better understand both the culture, the communities and the history of others.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e533	As others have said, Nordic cooperation has become more remarkable in recent years. It's got a new dynamics, and it's strengthened in a number of areas of society. And as Inge Wohnung said, this gives us possibilities that we should definitely benefit from. Governments regard climate, environment, energy, research and education as high on their agenda in the renewal of Nordic cooperation as the Globalisation Initiative. As Minister of Cooperation, it has been important for me to be involved in anchoring these initiatives both in the professional community, in the departmental departments and in the Nordic institutions. And as the fraction, with which I have met in Stortinget several times, knows, I have not always been as content with the process, and I have had a clear Norwegian voice in the negotiations. But I'm going to say that we're now on a completely different track. The project has been put into practice and the Nordic benefits have also been shown. I'll come up with a bit of a review of the projects. I want to take the flagship top research initiative as the first one I want to mention. There are now some of us on a thematic programme with five professional priorities in climate, environment and energy, and on funding. The proposal is based on existing activities, including those of parliamentarians, at both Nordic and national level. On the Norwegian side, we are very pleased that CO2 capture and storage has been included. The research ministers shall take decisions at the meeting they shall hold in connection with the session. In the next phase of the top-level research initiative, a focus will be on health and well-being, of which I also know the parliamentarians have been concerned. It is a good example that something that could initially seem airy and difficult to get hold of, has got a very concrete design, has been very clearly anchored in the institutions, both nationally and Nordicly, and not least has been given a starting point in activities we are already doing, but with a larger width, and is, as many have been in the past, important to follow up until Copenhagen in 2009. The Nordic Council of Ministers held an Arctic conference in Greenland earlier in the fall. In line with the Nordic priorities, the climate and environment were on the agenda, and not least the effects it has in the Arctic. The EU was there with delegations from the Commission, the Spokesmanship and Parliament. We were three ministers. There were people from the coastal states and other representatives from many countries and organisations. Within their territory, researchers could illustrate the consequences for flora, fauna and living conditions. My starting point in that conference was once again this with cooperation, keeping close contact with other environments that work at once, not least Arctic Council, so that we do not run in the feet of each other when the actions are designed, but on the contrary so that they reinforce each other and work in the same direction. Of course, we will take this conference with us in the Council of Ministers' further work on climate issues. Let me also highlight the work of promoting higher education in the Nordic region. The aim is to strengthen cooperation between Nordic universities and to profile the Nordic region as an attractive educational region. The first call for joint Nordic master programmes in 2007 received a positive response from higher education institutions. There is a next round of discussion on how to highlight the subjects that the Prime Ministers have identified as particularly important, as I said: climate, energy and the environment. Once again, we will have a link between the top-level research initiative and the general work and cooperation on higher education in the Nordic region. So to something that many people have been about, this with frontier barriers. As others have also said, it may be characterized as an endless story. But that doesn't mean we're not going to take it very seriously. We've been working a lot on it before. It seems that the Nordic Border Obstacle Forum has now received a design and a mandate that makes it easier to work concretely and directly with the barriers that one decides to remove, and there are ten pieces that I have understood to be up today. And, as many have also been involved, it is not least important to prevent new ones from emerging, and that a person works both at government level and from the Stortinge side of pointing it out. Then I have great faith in – and have always had – this with good and easily accessible information for the individual citizen, so that what may look like a barrier is not necessarily that, if one first knows what the legislation in the different countries is from the beginning of. This gives us plenty of opportunity to discuss more in Helsinki when Border Obstacle Forums present their first annual report. So to the work of globalisation, which has been central and taking a lot of time both on the parliamentary side, in my meeting with the parliamentarians in the last year and also in the Council of Ministers. Even if that's what's taking time, I think we can say that even if it's going to be there as a new dynamic, we don't have to forget the values that are underlying, that must always be there, and take us into the new initiatives that are the basis of Nordic cooperation: common culture and common language understanding. Had we not had it, the cooperation that we have had had not been resilient over time. Let me do a little bit of language. I have taken the initiative to give a thorough discussion of languages in the Nordic Council of Ministers in the autumn, because we see that the Scandinavian language understanding among young people is going down, and that English is about to take over. Language is much more than a hub for communication between people. It's a very central part of the infrastructure in Nordic relations. When Le Clézio got a message about the Nobel Prize, he said that the language is a way to think about it. That's exactly what it is. The Nordic community is involved in building up common ideas, culture and values. I'm busy that we're going to have the opportunity to speak our Nordic languages when we meet. We must not risk that there are non-Nordic languages that become conversational between us when we meet. Then we'll have to afford other solutions, such as interpretation. We can understand each other, speak our own languages and be understood, is a model we have in the Nordic countries that few other countries have. It has a socio-economic value, and it doesn't at least have a cultural value that we keep going on with it. Through the Nordic Agreement, the government is obliged to work to strengthen the understanding of neighbouring languages and the teaching of neighbouring languages in the school. This is one of the things. Followed up by specific objectives of competence in the curriculum for initial training. The Ministry of Knowledge also proposes, in its Annual Report, that bridges should also identify the actual situation of neighbouring language education in initial and general teacher training. It is not least that this is the case in general teacher training, since it is the teachers who are supposed to help young people get this language understanding. I also know that the other countries are within the same initiative, that one should take a survey of the situation. Of course, I can assure you that the letter that my colleagues Trond Giske and Tora Aasland have received from the delegation at Berit Bröhrby, we will of course follow up, and ensure that the use of the language in Nordic teaching cities and universities is followed up. I'll make sure of that. The budget process has created some turbulence this year – and the leader of the budget group, Berit Brørby, was himself involved – I want to say more turbulence than normal. For my three years as Minister of Cooperation, I have been busy that there will be a close dialogue on the budget between the Nordic Council of Ministers and the Nordic Council of Ministers throughout the year. When we had the presidency, we started the first meeting already in January. That is the only way to ensure that there is good dialogue and that the input from parliamentarians is captured early, so that the level of conflict is reduced. There was no conflict that year we had the presidency, because the dialogue was good. That doesn't mean that we were some about everything, but that means we had time to be some about what was the end result. It is important that this is so, and I think it is right, as many have pointed out, that the Nordic Council of Ministers must also discuss how cooperation with parliamentarians should be – not only in the budgetary process, but also in the globalisation process, which has had a somewhat unfortunate start, and which was also the theme of the last meeting of the Council of Ministers, when we had a delegation from the Nordic Council at the moment. We are forced to exploit the possibilities in the budget, in fact. We are forced to use the funds in the best possible way, in the best possible way, in the best possible way. That is why I think it is positive that the Nordic Council of Ministers is committed to the budget. This could not be to the detriment of the Council of Ministers. So finally two words -- I didn't think so much about it -- about the new direction lines for North-West Russia. They are developed in close contact with the regional partners in North-West Russia and federal powers in Moscow. It is important that they come in place, not least, in the light of recent events, as the case-speaker was also involved. I am very pleased that there is now a great deal of excitement in the Council of Ministers. There was full support for continuing this important work. We should, of course, do that, as we did, as the Foreign Minister did in the previous article, of course, should have very close contact with our neighbours in the west in the situation they are in the middle of.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e564	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e568	The removal of border barriers is the major field of action in Nordic cooperation. It is now even the promise at the very highest level of Prime Minister. A special bet area that the Nordics have is New Nordic food, where the Nordics are going to be the first home market, and then you have to bet and go out into the world and sell the products. What has the Council of State done with the New Nordic Food bet area so that the products can be sold freely in a borderless Nordic region? What will the Council of State do when the identification of these barriers to trade comes? Will she then see to it that these are removed?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e575	The representative of Thore A. Nistad has excused me for not being Minister of Agriculture! It is the agriculture ministers who have the primary responsibility for the food programme and, of course, all the details can be found. I don't know enough about that. My main responsibility is to oversee the cross-border work, and to follow closely the work done by Bjarne Mørk Eidem, a Norwegian representative, for us in this area. That means that my job is to make sure that he has easy access to the politicians he wants to meet in the Government Quarter, to those departments, the office he needs to meet with just in the preliminary work and working on a number of specific issues, but also not least in the preparation of new issues, to point out that one is not going to develop new frontier barriers. When these reports lead, of course, it is my responsibility as Nordic Minister of Cooperation in Norway to take it with me into the work of the Government and to ensure that what the report points to is also followed up by the Norwegian side. That is the responsibility of the Nordic Minister of Cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e582	My question also concerns the problem of frontier barriers, but with a slightly different approach. We have found in the Nordic Council delegation that the biggest problem may not be the old existing barriers and how to build them up, but all the new ones that are constantly produced by malpractice, namely by the fact that the legislative processes in the Nordic countries are running their own course. As far as I understand it, in the Norwegian Government it is a rule that law-making and what is put before the Stortinge in the form of a document should explain the relationship to parallel legislation in the other Nordic countries. We are still seeing examples of this not happening, most recently the complicated law package Stortinget treated just before summer, the new marriage law. There was no lighting of this at all. My question to the Council of State is: Is there satisfactory instruction, and then why is it not followed? If the answer is no, will the Council of State take the initiative to give such an instruction?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e593	I can't actually answer the question exactly. I think I have to be allowed to submit information about this to Inge Wohnung. I don't know exactly if it's in an instruction, or if there's been a built-in practice that we should look at it. I will check it out and get the representative indemnification information as soon as I have a chance. What's important to point out is that in the government we have a discussion about other countries' legislation when we work on big and important things that we know have consequences across borders. In particular, work on the major pension reform is important. We know that there is not always a connection between what is a Norwegian desire for a future pension reform, and Sweden, for example. adopted for its inhabitants as late as 2004–2005. We know that when there are some social security schemes, it is the same. It is quite simply that countries have opted for different schemes for their inhabitants, and there is no need for cross-border labour mobility. This does not mean that a person should not try to figure out and try to reduce as much as possible the barriers to legal action.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e600	The Council of State said in its speech that many projects have been taken up, revitalised and updated in the Nordic Council, and one has today tried to concentrate on taking important action in terms of more practical cooperation. That's good. At the same time, after having had short seagoing times in the Nordic Council, it strikes me that there is one problem: while focusing attention on a few and important projects, you keep all the old ones. It strikes me that it is totally unwieldy for a parliamentarian who has had a seagoing season of one year at the Nordic Council, to see the scope or scope of everything the Nordic Council is doing. I would like to have the State Council's comment on that. How can you eat something when you do a lot of other things?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e607	That's a good question. It's just about one thing, and it's about visualizing it and then prioritizing it. I have been busy in the process of globalisation too. When we're going to spend 60 million. NOK 800 million from the Nordic funds. SEK, nearly 900 million. kr, we actually have to take something away to prioritize something else. It's not always as simple, and it doesn't require at least good processes, so we're some about what we're going to end up with when we're now going to focus on the effort. Among our ministers and parliamentarians, there are people who have ownership of some projects, but it is very close to someone who has ownership of all 1,800, so there is every reason to go through this. This is the current action and not least the projects which should have been completed too many years ago will be terminated. But it is also up to the ministers and parliamentarians to be more good at saying what we are going to stop working on when we highlight areas that we want to prioritise, and which we are some of them that we want to give priority to. It has to happen two-sidedly.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e612	The Nordic Council of Ministers has set up 60 million. towards 2009 for its globalisation project. We're familiar with that. In the run-up to these funds, the Nordic Information Offices have become throwing balls between the Nordic Council of Ministers and the Nordic Association. What does the Council of State think about the lack of dialogue with the Nordic Information Offices? We have two in Norway, in Alta and in Arendal. And: Why does the Council of Ministers not want these offices, which have a very active, extensive work, to be evaluated?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e619	I agree with the representative that these Nordic Information Offices are doing a good job, and I have worked with Iceland to ensure that the Nordic Association now receives a letter, which makes it very clear that the money transferred to the Nordic Association is going to cover the information offices for 2009 as well. Iceland, which has the 2009 Presidency, has announced that this will be a new discussion that they will bring into the 2010 budgetary process. This means that the door has not been late, as one could fear that one had done, and thus went to a permanent closure, but on the contrary, there is still the possibility that one would also be able to secure the information offices their jobs in 2009. The most important thing is that they are secure funding that allows them to continue the job. It's not safe we're going to hold on to a big commitment to one way or the other to secure funding. At least the most important thing we've worked for is that the funding was secured. So it's for 2009, and then we get to work together on the budgetary process for 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e624	As I have been trained in parliamentary governance, that is where the ministerial side and the parliamentary side meet, the parliamentarian side that should be the strong one. There have been some criticisms today about how the Council of Ministers works and how the Council of Ministers' secretariat works. The party colleague of the Council of State, Mr Reikvam, said, if I do not quote him incorrectly now, that the Secretariat in Copenhagen is strong and would like to defend its own interests. We see that the parliamentary side has a secretariat in Copenhagen of 14 to 15 people, while at least the Council of Ministers secretariat is ten times as large. What are the intentions of the Council of State to reform the Secretariat of the Council of Ministers and make it less bureaucratic and more responsive to parliamentary processes?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e635	I also have this. Discussed with the Swedish Presidency in the current year, just to evaluate yourself and not just everyone else. We have taken a Swedish-Norwegian initiative for an external consultant who is now evaluating the 2005 reform, when we had a summary of the Council of Ministers. The aim of this review was to find effective forms of work. Now an evaluation will show whether we've succeeded in what we've done. Then there is more cross-sectoral work and, of course, there is the whole project portfolio that should be reviewed and highlighted in order to also make work in Copenhagen more efficient. That work is in progress. An external consultant has been ordered, because I think we need to first look at the things we've done and evaluate them, and then we need to have that knowledge with us into the discussion about how we're going to work in the future. Then, of course, we will also take the article with us from the representative, Reikvam, to record exactly that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e640	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e644	Despite the family imbalance previously pointed to by the representative, at the Arctic Conference this fall, the Nordic countries are usually united in the view of the Arctic challenges. The debate on Nordic cooperation is also the opportunity to explore how we work together within the Arctic family. The world’s attention to what is happening in the Arctic is increasing. The sea ice melts faster than even the most pessimistic predictions a few years ago. As a result of the melted sea ice many new situations arise. One of them is the opening of new vessel transport managers for more than one part of the year. We already see a large increase in the number of boats, like cruise ships, in Arctic sea areas. Many have noticed that the U.S. geological studies show that about 20 pst. the undiscovered petroleum resources of the world are assumed to be located in the Arctic. The geopolitical importance of the Arctic is growing again, and in the middle of this is Norway as one of eight Arctic countries and one of five Arctic coastal states. The Nordic regions and the Arctic are of great strategic and resource importance to Norway, and we have a great responsibility to contribute to sustainable development in the Arctic. With increased interest in the north, Arctic parliamentary cooperation is also gaining importance and interest, which I have experienced as the leader of this cooperation in the last four years. At the 8th Arctic Parliamentary Conference, which took place in Fairbanks in August, all the eight Arctic countries were represented with their politicians. In addition, there have been increasing numbers of countries and organisations participating as observers. The main themes of Fairbanks were adaptation to climate change, health, maritime policy and the development of alternative energy sources. I'm going to make a few brief comments on some of these issues. In addition to working to reduce emissions leading to climate change, we need to develop a policy on how people in the Arctic can adapt to the changes that occur as a result of rising temperatures. Smaller ice, larger and more storms, tundra as tins, and more erosion lead to many changes in the very life base of people living in the Arctic. The indigenous peoples and their traditional lifestyles and industries are particularly vulnerable. There are now major and important projects trying to achieve possible adaptations to climate change. An example that I want to mention is what is called EALAT. It's a project that looks at how climate change affects reindeer conditions in arctic strata. In addition to helping people with the challenges they face as a result of climate change, I believe it is very important that we also look at how the Arctic countries can prepare for the new opportunities offered by changes in the Arctic. In order to take advantage of the opportunities arising from changes, it is important to know what is happening, knowledge that enables the population to meet the challenges. Research and education must therefore be a key element in our way of meeting the future in the north. It is also in the Northern Region Strategy of the Government. Here I want to highlight in particular the important work that the University of the Arctic, that is Arctic University, does – this network of Arctic universities, where as many as 116 universities and universities in the north participate. For example, at the University of Bodø, a Bachelor’s degree in Arctic Studies has been developed. A large number of students now gain special knowledge about the challenges and opportunities of the Arctic. This is important. It is important that we continue to strengthen Arctic University both nationally and through Nordic cooperation. As I've been in the past, there's a huge increase in the maritime activity in the Arctic. This was thoroughly highlighted at the Fairbanks conference. The large increase in traffic demands the safety and training of crews on ships to operate in the Arctic. We can ask ourselves the question: what happens if a cruise ship falls on the east coast of Greenland? What are the requirements for those who operate boats in very challenging Arctic conditions? How does increasing shipping affect the environment? These are issues that require clarification. I also look forward to the final results of the report on ship activity in Arctic waters, which is likely to be presented at the meeting of the Arctic Foreign Ministers in Tromsø at the end of April 2009. Energy access to the small Arctic communities is a major challenge. Today, many of them rely on highly polluting aggregates to generate electricity, and the increase in diesel and oil prices has led many of these small communities to major economic difficulties in maintaining their energy requirements. An important effort must be made to provide and develop new and clean energy sources that can be used in Arctic strips. Finally, the Arctic parliamentarians are committed to strengthening the Arctic Council politically. Our opinion is that a high level of political activity in the Arctic Council is very important in order to ensure the Council's position in future cooperation in the Arctic.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e679	A representative who has participated in Nordic cooperation in the last three years can take many reflections on Nordic cooperation and the work of the Nordic Council. I think that the big message about Nordic cooperation, which we are now debating, is a bit like the work of the Nordic Council. It's relatively little concrete, very clever and almost without visions for the future. The main experience I've been doing in these years is that it's nice to meet the Nordic colleagues. It is nice to see the Nordic colleagues in their eyes, to connect and get to grips with how parliamentarians in the other Nordic countries view Nordic cooperation and current political issues in time. I'm in the Environment and Energy Committee. There I feel that the work is very consensus, trying to push everything that is conflict-affecting, under the carpet. What you're adopting is kind of so little controversial that everyone can join it. I doubt whether there will be any particular policy out of that kind of work. My experience is that Nordic cooperation needs to be put into practice considerably. As other speakers have said here today, there are too many projects. The cooperation is far too much spread beyond, and it's too little concrete. That is why we should now look at how Nordic cooperation can be reformed to make it more powerful. The father is that this will probably be a coffee club, where it is nice to meet, but where it happens little. The main challenge is to concreteise the work on projects that affect everyday life for the inhabitants of the Nordic countries, that these are issues and projects for which the citizens of the Nordic countries understand. Border-blocking work is important. I believe that this is probably the most important work that the Nordic Council is now working on. Building up border barriers between the Nordic countries is something that directly affects the lives of the Nordic citizens. There's a lot to do. I think that the work that is being done now looks very positive, and you have put on people who have experience, and who still have – we get hope – a kind of impact on government, and who know how to work in the system to get an impact on matters. You've kind of figured out how retired people are going to do this part-time. It should probably be an idea to spend more money on full-time jobs for this work. The Danish Minister of Food has launched a campaign in Denmark – ‘Report a Rule’ – that targets everyone in the Danish society who has been affected by food legislation and legislation. The industry itself and individuals are encouraged to notify them of unnecessary rules. I believe that a campaign of the type ‘Report a Border Barrier’ could also be launched – spending more money informing the Nordic population that this is a work that the Nordic Council prioritises. We could then report on obstacles that each citizen has experienced in his everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e690	I am pleased that we have a government that prioritises Nordic cooperation. The Soria Moria declaration is also clear that special attention should be paid to dialogue with the other Nordic countries. The Nordic countries are small but tone-setting in the international debate, and through their cooperation and joint action, the Nordic countries have become a model in a globalised world. The Nordic neighbourhood is admired by many and is something we should be proud of and pleased with. That is why Nordic cooperation is still very topical and forward-looking, and it must continue to work towards removing frontier barriers. I would also like to highlight the importance of the cooperation that the Nordic countries have with other countries through their neighbouring country cooperation and with other regional councils – the Barents Council, the Baltic Sea Council and the Arctic Council. I'm not going to say so much about these advices, but I just want to point out the importance of Barents' cooperation to this region. It is important to note here that this also triggers cooperation between counties and between local actors and between indigenous groups in different countries. There is no doubt that this cooperation is also of great foreign policy importance. I myself have been given the opportunity to work on some of the indigenous issues in the Barents region under the direction of the Nordic Council. In this work I was given the opportunity to visit North-West Russia and meet indigenous people in this area. Through this cooperation, indigenous people in this part of the region have had new opportunities for industrial development and welfare development. I regard the work of the Sami Parliamentary Council as very important, and I think it is of great importance that Russian Sami are given the opportunity to be observers at Council meetings. This is what promotes knowledge and understanding across borders and between neighbours and peoples. Keywords in this context are language, culture and business and social life. I am pleased that a draft of a Nordic Convention is being worked in detail. I am pleased to see that a large majority of the Committee supports this initiative, and hope is expressed that it will make progress in establishing a joint convention. I notice that the Progress Party is not included in this comment in the setting. I am constantly surprised that the Progress Party is opposed to everything that smells of action for indigenous peoples and what can promote indigenous languages, culture, and food and social development. I had hoped that from the Norwegian side we would have been able to show that a total Norwegian accumulation was behind this work. But it's not like that. I want to commend the other parties in Stortinget that they have been united in this important matter. This is the case with good visions of the future. As a member of the Defence Committee, I am also pleased that this area is mentioned in the Communication and in the Vote. Norway is a member of NATO, and this membership is a major political consensus to continue. However, it should be possible to establish more extensive Nordic defence cooperation within the framework possible here. I think it is gratifying that an overall committee so clearly supports the initiative to develop a study on this topic. I think many are looking forward to seeing the outcome of the work that Thorvald Stoltenberg – former Foreign Minister and Minister of Defence – is now doing in this context. Nordic cooperation remains of the utmost importance, and Norway’s role in this cooperation is of prime importance. I believe that Norway, with its place outside the EU, has a significant task of being a distinct Nordic voice in international context.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e713	I think this has been an interesting debate with great commitment. I will guard against having an opinion on how parliamentarians assess reforms of their work, but I believe that having an ongoing reform ambition in the Nordic Council is positive. I then speak from my own experience of the reform work carried out in the Council of Ministers early in the 1990s, where I, as an official, was involved in reforming the work of Prime Ministers, such as, among other things. adopted foreign and defence policy for the first time in the discussions of the Nordic Council. That work has thrown itself off – to say it like that – and is one of the reasons why today we have a lot more denser and I would like to say taboo discussion about foreign and security policy, such as, among other things. is behind the mission of Thorvald Stoltenberg now performing, and to which I shall come back. So I want to take a slightly different perspective than the one that Kielland Asmyhr is taking. I believe that where there is a political dispute, the political dispute must take place, including in the discussion. But a force in Nordic cooperation that comes to the top of each country's own battles, is the community, the consensus on doing things. I think the second part of Kielland Asmyhr's posts was very good, about the ambitions for border cooperation. There is a strength that there is as much unanimity as possible and consensus in how we approach this. In the Nordic debates, it is often the case that national disputes are raised into the discussions of the Nordic Council and bring temperatures there. However, I think that where the Nordic Council and Nordic cooperation really demonstrate concrete progress, there are also cross national dividing lines. So I would say that in the contributions of the representative, Hill-Marta Solberg, we were able to illustrate the development of the Nordic region. If there's one observation feature I've noticed since I became Minister for Foreign Affairs, that's how the Arctic now merges with the Nordic and Northern Region perspective. Hill-Marta Solberg was through many dimensions of it – how it now moves, how parliamentarians also push forward an agenda on it. What's interesting to record is that we now have a new vitality in the Arctic Council, we have a continued vitality and capacity for innovation in Barents' cooperation, we have a renewed Baltic Sea cooperation in progress in which the EU and other countries are engaged, and we have the northern dimension, which is working to find its form, and where Norway, Iceland and Russia participate. This is, in my opinion, the most successful regional cooperation arrangements we see in Europe today. Two days ago, I had talks with Algeria's Foreign Minister, who is now looking at the Mediterranean Union, Mediterranean cooperation, developed by the EU and the countries south of the Mediterranean. They are out there to see what experience we have in terms of cross-border cooperation and to be able to put regional issues on the agenda. This means that in these different forums, which are interdependent, and where Norway is in the vast majority, we really have an opportunity to push an agenda forward. The driving forces in these bodies are the same as those behind Norway’s North Sea operations. It's climate change, it's energy and natural resources, it's developments in Russia, and it's the new transport routes. There are so many driving forces here that are really activating now, that we see them together, we see that there are new, very exciting perspectives in our part of Europe. Let me also add that around the Black Sea and the Caspian Sea – very turbulent regions, as we have seen in recent months – it is interested in the way we work together here. In conversation with my Turkish colleague, I have made sure to deliver experiences and material to Turkey. For Turkey and the initiatives Turkey is now taking, there may be interesting lessons to pick up, even though the region is very different from ours. So, as I said, in the light of the closer foreign policy and defence cooperation in the Nordic region, there has been room to take new initiatives. There are various reasons why this cooperation is now developing. One reason on the defence side is purely rational and economic — that small defence systems have an interest in working closely together, including, for example, purchases and exercises, and seeing things together. That process is run by the Heads of Defense and has political support from the governments, of course. But it is also linked to the fact that the European Security Policy image provides a basis for governments to see more common to the challenges we face. The fact that some countries are members of the EU and some members of NATO has long been a barrier to that kind of discussion. Today I would like to say that it is almost an inspiration, where we in Norway are interested in working more closely with our EU neighbours in the Nordic region, and where our EU neighbours in the Nordic region, which are not NATO members, are interested in working more closely with Norway, Iceland and Denmark, which are NATO members. What we see, and as we've talked about in this room before, is that the five Nordic countries are the platform, but the regional trends allow two, three or four countries to cooperate more closely within the framework of the five. We've found a form of that now, and it's all right as long as we're also aware that it's the five that's the base. That's why we five former Foreign and Defence Minister Thorvald Stoltenberg asked to think freely about the perspective of Nordic foreign and security cooperation in a 10-year horizon. He was asked to see it a good deal more boldly and boldly than ministers would normally do. A report comes just before Christmas, and Stoltenberg has had extensive consultations with the authorities in all the Nordic countries and also talks beyond the Nordic countries around the work he does, which we attend with interest. And then we'll see how we follow it up in the further work. I also want to add a perspective here that the representative Arnesen drew out, the indigenous dimension. I believe that we have the indigenous dimension well present both in the Arctic Council and in Barents' cooperation. It is important that we have, because here we have both a responsibility under our international conventions and obligations and a responsibility to show in the international picture how indigenous people's rights and interests are taken into account when there are very strong developments going on. That is why it is something we have to add, and it is positive that the Members of Parliament give us broad support for it. So I noticed that the representative Tørresdal, who is not here now, was concerned that Norway had arrived late on the track in relation to Iceland. I respectfully object to that. We had, as I said in my presentation today, long before this crisis contacted Iceland about the vulnerability Iceland has had in the financial system. Therefore, the arrangement to put available credits for the central bank of Iceland was already in place before the summer. I feel that Iceland must be responsible for and entitled to find out its own needs. Some say that the Icelanders are such a proud people that they don't want to ask for help. We can have a pride some of us, both people and states, but what would be even worse, was to tell Iceland what they need. I think that would be a very bad strategy for a proud brother. That is why we had close, almost daily, telephone contact with our colleagues, and also direct contact, where we anticipated Iceland that we were ready to sit down and go through the situation when they felt they were ready for it. When they were, the Prime Minister sent the delegation that is now working in Iceland, which will give us valuable feedback. So this I feel that we have done in a close understanding. I want to add that it's not a natural disaster that's hit Iceland, it's the result of Iceland's huge exposure to banking and financial systems. The clock in it is under debate in Iceland. This is part of the reviews that Iceland has to do before they turn towards the international community and the discussions we are now going to have. We live in a region where the Nordic Council, which a few years ago was said to be a council that didn't have much to deal with, is definitely the focus of some of the most exciting regional developments. Arctic Councils, I think, are also going to become significantly more important in the coming years, because the whole Arctic issue is becoming so important – the Barents and Baltic Sea region, the northern dimension. The organisation that has been the longest and continuous in this region is the Nordic Council. But, as we have been discussing in this debate, no such institution manages over time with vitality and relevance, unless there are reforms. So that discussion, and the willingness to enter into it, should be actively involved in both the government and parliamentarian sides.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e751	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e754	I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for also seeing the need for reform and for Norway being active in reforming the system. An experience that has taken place as a participant in Nordic cooperation is that it is highly Baltic-oriented. It is in many ways natural, because most Nordic countries border the Baltic Sea. The environmental challenges in the Baltic Sea are great, and relations with the Baltic countries and Russia are also important. However, Norway should have a great interest in bringing forward the northern dimension as well, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs said so a little about it. However, I feel that the interests of the other Nordic countries, especially Sweden, Denmark and Finland, are not so great for the north. Norway then has a major challenge in drawing the focus west and northwards, given the large resources we see in the north in energy, environment and industrial development, and that the north will have a major impact on global security policy in the future. How will the Foreign Minister now work in relation to his Nordic colleagues to bring forward this important area?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e763	Here I can make all Kielland Asmyhr's words mine. I totally agree with him in the description of reality. It is clear that the centre of gravity of many of the countries is drawing south and towards and around the Baltic Sea. One strategy is that Norway is also there, so that we are active around the tables and follow developments. The second strategy is to raise the relevance of what's happening in the north. There, parliamentarians are doing an important job, and we have close dialogue with the Parliamentary Assembly and the Bureau to put Northern Region issues and Barents' questions on the agenda. For example, Sweden, which has now had the chairmanship of Barents, is doing a good job there, because it is serious for them too. Norway has then tried, in cooperation with Finland and Sweden, to raise the issue of northern Scandinavia. This is why the Norwegian, Swedish and Finnish Foreign Minister, with representatives from the Ministry of Defence, has had a frequency in their last six months to show that although some are coastal states – namely we – and other indigenous countries – Sweden and Finland – we have common challenges. So the answer is: put it on the agenda, make it relevant and show the common interests in cooperation between governments and parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e774	I fully share the foreign minister's view of the interaction between Norway and Iceland in the financial crisis. I don't need to ask him to elaborate on it, it's primarily the Minister of Finance's table. But on the other hand, I would like to hear the Minister for Foreign Affairs give the reasoning somewhat further in terms of the more general foreign and security policy dimensions of this. Given that Iceland – if you can use a bold picture now – has come on the move and might have to reorient itself relatively fundamentally in many areas, in addition to what has already happened after the Americans withdrew from their presence and Norway undertook to cover some of the void, and given that there would be significant changes in the political architecture in the North in the draft of this, does the Norwegian Government have a thoughtful readiness for how to deal with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e781	There are important issues that are being addressed here. I said in my speech that it is also about politics, namely to make sure that Iceland is the responsible actor in the North Atlantic that Norway needs as a partner. It is important not to talk Iceland into further flow by saying that they are now in play both military-political and alliance related. My assessment is that Iceland is not on the move, and that prime minister, foreign minister and central politicians speak very clearly about NATO membership, the Western relationship and Nordic membership. And then we're going to build it up. One of the reasons is, as the representative for Wage pointed out, the way Norway and Denmark and other European countries are now using Keflavik in cooperation with Iceland. The second is that when we discuss the North and Security Policy, Norway and Iceland have a very common profile in NATO. On 29 January next year, there will be a seminar with NATO Secretary-General, Icelandic politicians and Norwegians, including me, on the North and Security Policy. So we have to have a high level of preparedness for this, but make sure that Iceland is where they say they're going to be, that's anchored as a Western/Nordic ally of Norway and NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e792	I want to challenge the Minister of Foreign Affairs to reflect a little further on where he stopped at the pulpit. Nordic cooperation is probably based on three heavy pillars. One is the institutionalised, formalised Nordic Council of Ministers and the Nordic Council of Ministers. The second is the popular part of the cooperation that the Nordic Association stands for. And the third is that more foreign policy and defence cooperation, which is semi-formalized, we might say. Now, former Foreign Minister Stoltenberg will present an assessment, but my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is whether he can reflect a little around: can it be an answer and can it be a way to go into the future that this part of cooperation – this semi-formalised cooperation in foreign affairs and perhaps also in defence – becomes part of the institutionalised, the formalised under the direction of the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e802	At least I don't need to say that the answer to that categorically is no. I think we should have an open mind to see how it works. But it is important to realize that one of the reasons why we are now getting a little loose in this reflection is that some countries are firmly anchored in NATO and some safely anchored in the EU, and their shoulders are lowered. If we had asked the questions in the study that Stoltenberg does, I think we had had a very well-known debate – an EU/NATO debate – in the different countries. We don't want to. But I think we should have an open mind to see how we can strengthen Nordic mechanisms and mechanisms politically and functionally on the defence and security side, so that they meet the needs we have. I also feel that there is an openness to that in the other Nordic countries. Whether the Nordic Council of Ministers is the form, I should not have said. But we also have a debate on foreign and defence policy in the Nordic Council already, which indicates that there is something to build on. As I said, we're not going to rule out any alternatives, even though I don't see how they had to sign up today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e807	The Nordic Council of Ministers cooperates with the EU on democratic support for Belarus through support to the European University of Humanities, EHU, Vilnius, and so far the EHU has been supported by the Nordic Council of Ministers, the European Commission and bilaterally, among others. from Norway. The left believes that we still need to focus a lot on Belarus, not least in relation to the September 2008 elections, as it did not satisfy the requirements for free, independent and democratic elections. The Council of Ministers should now seriously assess the establishment of its own office in Minsk according to the model of the offices we have in the Baltic countries. How does the Minister for Foreign Affairs view cooperation at the Nordic Council and the opportunities for Belarus in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e814	I have to admit that I do not have a very good overview of the Nordic Council's cooperation with Belarus, but that the Nordic countries have the most coordinated profile against what is actually a neighbouring country, at least in our neighbourhood, I think is right. Norway – as a government at least, and with the support of the Stortinget – maintains a commitment on the human rights side, democracy side, in Belarus. It is worth noting that Belarus is now moving significantly in many areas, which we are going to follow very closely, and it is natural that we are doing so in cooperation with our Nordic neighbours. This applies from a Nordic point of view, but the EU is also in its neighbourhood policy, among other things. by an initiative taken by Poland and Sweden, taken by these eastern neighbours located further east of the new Member States. So there are several axes here where we want to work actively to be present in relation to the movement of democracy in Belarus.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e819	Russia is an important neighbouring country. It's important in Barents' cooperation, it's important in the Arctic Council, and it's also important in relation to Nordic. And also here, border crossing and border barriers are important. I took up an interpellation a year and a half ago about the problem of border crossing, but still it remains very much. When I take this up and ask questions about it, it is because I cannot come home once without meeting people who complain about the treatment they receive from the Consulate in Murmansk, and it is a little strange. When are we going to put in place a treatment for visa applicants in the Murmansk consulate who are caring for the applicant in a humane way?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e826	First, I remember the interpellation of the representative very well. It was a good debate, it set a very good direction for our work, and I get to say it almost so that we've worked every day and every week since that, and as part of the Northern Territory effort, to facilitate the border crossing. With respect to reporting, I believe that we have done much, including: short time of proceedings in Murmansk. I said in my post earlier today that 98 pst. of the applications are granted, we have worked to facilitate border crossings at Storskog and have some very visionary programmes towards border settlements, twin cities of Nikel and Kirkenes, etc. But I have to distance myself from the review given by the Consulate General in Murmansk. I mean that where a large and important work is done by dedicated employees, Norwegian and Russian – they do an important job under quite demanding circumstances. We are aware that when visa applications are to be dealt with quickly, for people who need visas for business travel, there is great impatience and great pressure, but we stress that our staff there are going to act orderly according to laws and regulations and in a humane manner. So that treatment is inhuman, I can't do well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e831	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e834	The annual debate on the Nordic Council gives a good opportunity to come up with a few points of view, experience, what one thinks Nordic cooperation is, and what one should possibly focus more on. My seagoing time in the Nordic Council is only three years. But it has given me insight into how things are being done, how we in the various committees treat them, and not least in how the way from the cases is finished by us elected to the governments put the decisions into life – if they do. The Nordic Council is a great venue for promoting things that we are good at and focusing on areas where we can be even better, an arena where we can attract good action in that part of Europe where countries have a lot in common. But the Nordic region as a global winner region is not self-evident. We have to work hard to keep this position. In several Nordic countries, there are strong forces that stand for values other than Community solutions. It's important that we build on the Nordic model, which other parts of the world actually set up and use as a model. Nordic enterprises demand knowledge, research results and innovation in order to prepare themselves to the global competitive situation. The Social Democrats of the Nordic Council have submitted a proposal that we should set up a ‘competence bank’ to provide a comprehensive overview of opportunities for Nordic companies. The aim of this is that other countries can get to know and apply the good measures taken by their neighbours. In this way, we can move on, focus on improvements and not research on tasks that are already solved. In the first row, one should aim to establish an overview of research results and investment within the environment and energy, the focus of which is on all Nordic countries. Border barriers have been most common. It is on the agenda, and it has been for decades. During the 2007 Finnish Presidency, work on the reduction of border barriers was one of several priority areas. We have had a common labour market without frontiers for a long time, but social security schemes and other schemes are sometimes very different. Business continues to face new barriers, which pose challenges. In order to increase competitiveness in the Nordic region, we need to continue our efforts to create a «frontier» Nordic region, for example. within the service sector, where there is a high potential for increased cross-border trade. It has previously been shown to the group that Ole Norrback is renting, so I can skip it, but I hope that the measures that the group now points to are taken by the Minister of Cooperation. At least I will allow myself to raise the Minister of Cooperation to the right if it is not for Norway's part to choose on the top shelf, take five measures and so be ready to sign it out. Then it's also the way everyone else has been, that it's very important that new promises in a way don't build up to take something at one end, and then we build new ones at the other. As a member of the control committee, I have been involved in a review of the projects we have under the Nordic regime. That was 1 800. The Bureau gave guidance on the need for a critical review in 2005 in order to achieve reductions. Now it's at the base of 1,800, so it's not going very fast. So one has to ask ourselves whether we can benefit from all of these, or whether we have to narrow them down, that the Nordic Council should give priority to some areas in a new era. My answer to that is yes. We need to select and clarify the tasks we want to focus on, and get better. Culture and language are also something that we have to turn around. It creates an identity and a ten-right in the Nordic region to be able to speak their own language and be understood. I think of it as the very foundations of the Nordic Council. Culture is glued to a society. Norway participates in many organisations that are more than related. Governments are talking about the vitalisation of Baltic Sea cooperation, the Barents Council, Arctic Councils and more. Everyone is important separately, but the question is whether they have overlapping tasks. For me, it becomes important to ask me the question: What kind of tasks should the Nordic Council have at all? In the Socialist Group, we have discussed this on several occasions. This I thought we needed to have a review of. I think the time is more than mature to decide which Nordic Council should focus on in the years to come, both geographically and when it comes to tasks to focus on within the economic framework we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e855	There has been an interesting Nordic Council debate today, which may also illustrate that the Nordic countries have been in a high economic cycle where the challenges have not been so great, at least in terms of employment. Growth and development have been the common denominator of work in the Nordic countries and autonomous areas. That's why the challenge may now be different, where we have to think about what kind of agenda we want in the future, and what kind of ambitions we want to have in this work. I believe that there is a common perception among all parties, in all countries, that the vitalization of work must be the focus at all times. And I think that's actually something you've managed to achieve. This is a parliamentary forum in which five prime ministers meet each year, we meet ministers, state councils and get exchanges of experience. The term 'networks', which we talk about in very many other contexts -- what kind of other kind of networks can we have if we want something out of this joint work, in which we want to participate, other than to be able to cultivate this further? This depends on the ambitions of the individual batches in this area. I have great respect for the speakers of the Progress Party, both Fredriksen and Kielland Asmyhr, but I must say that when I hear the approach to this debate, I understand the level of ambition the party has put on in Nordic cooperation. Because it's best to drag your back first in any approach to this. That someone sees the Nordic Council as a coffee club with no agenda, more or less a cos club with no ambitions, where they cultivate consensus, can't be the result of anything but having no other network you want to cultivate than yourself. I know of course that there have been certain approaches to the Danish People's Party, but because it has been most comfortable nationally, one has chosen not to cooperate with them, a cooperation that could have given them room in the Bureau, and given the Progress Party an opportunity to have influence. And then, when specific proposals are called for, whenvitalisation is called for, it must be allowed to ask: What has been the approach of the Progress Party, what has been the highlight of the Progress Party in proposals that could vitalize the Nordic Council? We don't need challenges. I sit with the representative of Kielland Asmyhr in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and – you know, the world – we are discussing climate challenges, we are participating in a common Nordic-Baltic cooperation to manage and contribute politically to clearing up the world's most polluted maritime area, the Baltic Sea. We are discussing a common approach to the climate challenge; we are discussing the energy issue. In the Nordic region, we really have an opportunity to link infrastructure and make jobs in renewable policy better than today. So we don't need areas to deal with. And then you can't use as an excuse that the Nordic Council is a consensus body where you can't make decisions. This is with respect to reporting – had the word ‘doubt’ been parliamentary, I would have used it, but since there is no occasion for it, I find no other comprehensive word as an alternative. Let me also say that in the case of border barriers, which have been a term we have discussed for a long time, it is certainly up to Norway to contribute to doing something about this. In a situation where we have an international financial crisis around us, which also hits this region, we must be willing to see what we can do from the Norwegian side in this area, what are the main obstacles. And let me say, although there are pensioners who have been set to do this job, there is no bad job done by former Prime Minister Paul Schlüter and Bjarne Dark Eidem, who have several high-ranking titles in Norway. So it can hardly be because of them that we haven't come anymore. But we have to be willing in Norway to see if we can apply transparent solutions to customs, tax, taxes, which make it easier to think east-west than just north-south.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e868	The cooperation of indigenous peoples is an important and central part of the continuous cooperation that takes place between the parliaments of the Nordic countries. An area that is at the heart of this work is Community construction for the Sami people. Samene is a people in four countries. Governments in Finland, Sweden and Norway agree to continue their work on the draft Nordic co-convention. The joint ministers and the joint presidents aim at clarifying the issues that will enable the ongoing work to be carried out by the countries until the autumn of 2008. Norway plays a central role in these negotiations and bases human rights on its efforts in this area. Togethers in Norway are in a special position in the Nordic region as a result of both the constitutional status of the association through the Constitution in Norway and the ratification by Norway of ILO Convention No. 169. The unifications in Finland, Norway and Sweden play an important role in the work of the Nordic Convention. The coalitions have organised their work through the Sami Parliamentary Council, and this body forms the basis for the emergence of a coordinated policy to safeguard the common interests of the Sami people in the Nordic countries. The Sami Parliamentary Council is an important body for Nordic cooperation and a body of importance in international contexts for enhanced cooperation between indigenous peoples and between indigenous peoples and other actors. This is one of the many, good and targeted actions that are of great importance to cooperation in the Nordic region. Issues relating to mobility within the common Nordic labour market are also of great importance for the Sami people. It is also very positive that both the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers have highlighted the need for enhanced cooperation between the Nordic countries to combat trafficking and prostitution. During the Finnish Presidency in 2007 and the Swedish Presidency in 2008, the intentions of the five-year cooperation programme for the period 2006–2010, focusing on gender, became an equal society. This has been followed up. Equality is a field that is also part of indigenous cooperation. The aim of gender equality in indigenous cooperation is to strengthen and develop the social life of the community. Nordic institutions working in this area need to be more closely linked to the national bet areas. This also applies in the field of research and innovation work. In this way, the objectives of change can be achieved in areas where there are still considerable challenges. This is not least the Nordic Council's recommendation on the coexistence and cultural complexity of this multicultural society. Nordic cooperation represents a unique opportunity to work together to manage cultural complexity and promote coexistence.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e887	I must first be allowed to comment on the comments of the representative Kristiansen. The fact that the representative of the first is obviously standing and lying from the pulpit of Storting is a shame to me. But not only that, he could not have been present at the Nordic Council in the last three years. The party of progress is the party which has had the most proposals from this delegation. As I can remember, the Right has not had one suggestion. When the representative Kristiansen says that our approach is ‘with his back first’, I think maybe he should wake up. And when it comes to making such a monstrous claim that we've had approaches to the Danish People's Party, Kristiansen knows better. Using such bad arguments should have been too good for the representative. Then I got a little puffed out. Then I go to my post. Nordic cooperation is important both because we are thus included as countries, even though we are outside, and because the Nordic countries have long traditions of community and cooperation. It is important that we all have an opinion that the Nordic region is one region, but not in such a way that some still believe that Norway is the capital of Sweden. I have now participated in Nordic cooperation for over seven years. There is no doubt that there has been a positive development of cooperation. Perhaps it is linked to the fact that we have some major common challenges both on the cyclical front, on the defence front, on the climate and environmental front, and perhaps not least in organised crime. I read through the post I made last year about the Nordic Council, and I could unfortunately have kept the same post this year. It is with some concern that I record that things take time. In particular, I want to focus on human trafficking and prostitution. Last year, in the Nordic Council, we decided to establish safehouses in the countries of origin of the women who had been sent to the Nordic countries through trafficking in human beings but who wanted to return to their countries of origin. It was a unanimous welcome from the parliamentarians that this would contribute to a common Nordic region. But unfortunately, it seems to take time. Still, nothing has happened, even if we had and have resources to set this project in motion. It takes too long in the Nordic bureaucracy to take decisions by parliamentarians. We must take care not to end up as a pleasant council, where parliamentarians are taken without any further action. In my article last year I also asked for an overview of the 150 projects for which the Council of Ministers has granted money. We still haven't got that. I have therefore promoted a similar request in my committee at the Nordic Council, the Committee on Citizens' Rights, to see if it is easier to get this overview for just one sample. So there is still a lot that can become more streamlined, and not least more effective at the Nordic Council, but it is nevertheless important to stress that important issues affecting the whole Nordic region are put in focus. The rapporteurs have addressed the various issues in a straightforward way, as a joint committee stands behind them. However, I would like to address another topic that I raised last year both here in Stortinget and in the Nordic Council session. The Progress Party has still not had its seat in all committees, despite the fact that we are five representatives. We still have no room in the Bureau, despite being the second largest group in the Norwegian delegation. We are still just a budgetary consultative body, and we find this very little satisfactory. In previous years, it has been lamented that the Progress Party was not as active as you wished. During this last period, the Norwegian Delegation for Progress has submitted the most proposals. Nevertheless, it is as if the rest of the Nordic Council does not accept that we are part of the community. But when that's said, of course I'm not going to do wrong. For it has been taken up by the head of the delegation, the representative Berit Brørby, in the Bureau, without there having been any excessive will, obviously, to amend the statutes, so that the second largest party in Norway is also represented in a fair manner. It may seem premature that I take this up again, but if you want to have a good cooperation and a broad community, you might also want to include the Progress Party in this. I believe in joint and cooperation in the Nordic region, but I think you might want to look at how it all is organized and how much the operation of the Nordic Secretariat costs in relation to what we get back. In the Council of Europe, the debate on a slimmer and more efficient administration is under way. I don't think I would have done anything about discussing this at the Nordic Council either.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e919	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e923	I have to comment on the Progress Party, which claims that they are being skewed in any context. I don't think so. I also think that I have experienced a progress party that is much more interested in Nordic cooperation than I have experienced in my 16 years as a member of the Nordic Council. I want to explain what rules apply in Nordic cooperation and in the Nordic Council, simply because there might be someone who doesn't know about this in the Chamber. In order to be defined as a party group to the Nordic Council, the Nordic Council’s Rules of Procedure states that a party group in a national parliament, large or small, must find a similar partner in another country. That is to say, there must be members from two countries in order to provide a sufficient basis for the formation of a party group. This possibility has now been opened up by the Bureau — before there were three countries, now there are two. So that's the option that the Progress Party has chosen not to use. It's really their business. They might have different motives for that, I don't know. But it unfortunately does not define the Progress Party as a party group in Nordic cooperation. They lose money on it, and they lose influence. But it's their own choice. We in the Budget Group have chosen to give the Progress Party the opportunity to make representations and views on the budget, and they have done so. It is therefore not the Norwegian delegation that is responsible for identifying the members of the Budget Group. It's the Bureau's responsibility. It is the responsibility of the Bureau to present proposals for amendments to the Rules of Procedure, which they have done in the light of the fact that it is now only necessary to have members in two countries in order to form a party group. So I'm not alone in the Bureau, and it was very much in the hands of some of the other countries' representatives to get what we actually got into. So to the following misunderstanding: there is no requirement for consensus in the Nordic Council. In the Nordic Council's plenary session, there is the right to be dissenting and, in fact, to vote on various proposals, majority proposals and minority proposals, as we call it here in Norway. It's just the governments that have to agree, so use the consensus principle. So just a few words about the Nordic Development Fund. I think it is risky to send EUR 1 billion straight into the World Bank and put down a good Nordic institution – EUR 1 billion, NOK 9 billion! That's a lot of money. And anyway, we have to legally maintain the Nordic Development Fund, because they have 35 years left of all their loan and assistance portfolios. In the end – I know I’m overtime: Barents’ cooperation, which has been mentioned, will be something of the matter. There is now a content, together with the Russians, for a new Barent parliamentary conference to be held next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e940	This debate has been marked by speeches that have at least tried to point forward. One can discuss whether there has been any debate, as there has hardly been anyone who has commented on each other's posts, but at least I feel that some posts have pointed forward a bit. The Foreign Minister was committed to reforms in his intervention, and he underlined the need for reforms. He is also willing to discuss foreign policy cooperation and cooperation in defence policy. One possible option is perhaps to establish it within established Nordic cooperation. The Minister of Cooperation is willing to evaluate the Council of Ministers' cooperation, that it is cut in the number of Councils of Ministers, and will also look forward to it. I feel like the ball is at the Nordic Council now. I would probably like us to be more willing to take up that ball and go in and look at the need for reform in the Nordic Council. Now it's not just going in the field. It's very easy to say that we're going to focus, what it has to mean, but at least we're going to do something with a camera -- obviously we're going to get better with it. I don't think that's just the problem. If we were able to establish the structures differently, how all Nordic cooperation is organised and the relationship between the Council of Ministers and the Nordic Council, so that we got closer to the parliamentary system, where the Council is the parliamentary body that requires the Council of Ministers to carry out tasks – that they are thus trying to clean up the roles in that direction – I think it would strengthen Nordic cooperation. I sincerely hope that in the delegation we will be able to take on these challenges in the future, as the Council of Ministers has worked on it. So to some myths. It's often made myths. A myth is that there are so many projects. There are many projects, it is clear, but the word ‘project’ is only used for different activities. If you look at the budget, it's pretty much a concentration in a few areas – it's education, culture, research and someone else, so concentration isn't that bad. So you could say that you shouldn't call all projects. So finally, I don't use to defend the Advancement Party, but today I actually feel that they need a defense, because the post of the representative Kristiansen shot far beyond all goals. I think that the Progress Party in this debate and in the Nordic context has shown increased commitment, and they deserve to be commended, rather than the kind of comments that the representative Kristiansen made in his speech. I think it is certainly the first time I have defended the Progress Party from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e953	I am grateful for the support that Rolf Reikvam gave us in his contribution, because Ivar Kristiansen can neither have followed what is happening in the Nordic Council nor in this debate. He showed that he kind of plays himself out of the real world. He asked a question about what the Progress Party has contributed. There may be reason to ask what the Right and Ivar Kristiansen have contributed to the Nordic debate, except in various forums to make some tumultuous contributions without content. It is such that I have not said that the Nordic Council is a coffee club. But there is a danger that it can be done quickly. We should have a quick look at that, and we should discuss how this cooperation will work in the future, and we must be reform-focused. Is it so that Ivar Kristiansen and Right have no view of the future organisation of Nordic cooperation, and will there not be support for any initiatives to reform? Doesn't Right question how Nordic cooperation works? I think Ivar Kristiansen must have had a bad day. When he makes claims that the Progress Party has had contact – I think that was the word used – with the Danish People's Party, the President should have stated it, because the President is also in the Nordic Council. The progress party has never had any cooperation with the Danish People's Party, nor will it have. On the other hand, I can confirm that some of the cooperation partners of the Right have given signals that perhaps the Advance Party could be a more up-to-date future partner than the Right is. I think Berit Brørby should have boasted that she has been positively prepared to include the Advance Party in Nordic cooperation. There has been little involvement from others in the Norwegian delegation. But when Berit Brørby says that the legislation has now been amended, so that the Progress Party can find another partner in one of the other Nordic countries to become a party group, she talks against better knowledge. She knows that the Progress Party is a young party. She knows that all the other parties, except one party, already have cooperation in existing party groups. So it requires that some other batches of the established batches have to break out of the existing batches. This case also shows that we need significant reform. The Nordic Council does not follow up on the political situation in the Nordic countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e966	First of all, I hope the representative Brørby did not take my post personally earlier today. In fact, the representative, Brørby, is one of the few who have been in favour of an approach, which means that the Group of the Progressive Party should be given a somewhat more democratic distribution. That is something the representative must have boasted about. I must also say that when the representative says she feels that parliamentarians do not get to Nordic cooperation, she should know that it is even worse for us, because we do not even get to our own country by being represented. What the party wants, is nothing but equal treatment, to get an equivalency. Everyone wants it in all other contexts, but in this context you should not get it – it is not appropriate. I feel that very sad. I thought it was nice that the Minister for Foreign Affairs supported Kielland Asmyhr's idea of reforming the Nordic Council, because it is necessary, it is entirely in place. You must be no more Catholic than the pope in conservative fashion and say that nothing can be better in the future. I don't think that's a good idea. Usually I have a lot to do with the representative Kristiansen. Usually we get along very well. But I must say that what he was able to take off from the pulpit today is sad. In fact, most proposals have been made by the Progress Party. We have taken the initiative to set up seminars against trafficking. We have visited Murmansk from our own suitcase, visited St. Petersburg to get to the bottom of the HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis situation. And this is something we do on our leisure time, not within our working time at Stortinget. We sacrifice a lot of time and forces in the Nordic, and then it's incredibly boring that someone has slept so fantastically well in the hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e977	It is a little unusual that the annual debate on Nordic cooperation triggers violent mental movements. There is good reason to recall that the issue of the rules of the Nordic Council of Ministers is not decided in the storeroom and by the Norwegian Storing. The rules of the game are defined and apply in the same way to all lots, both the lots involved in the group of lots and the lots which for various reasons choose not to participate in the group of lots. I have a good understanding that it can be argued for a change in the rules, but I have no understanding that it is a topic in the annual debate on Nordic cooperation in the Norwegian big business. That debate may be taken elsewhere, namely where the rules of the game are determined. So two comments on the previous line exchange with the two state councils. A small follow-up to the Grande Røys State Council: We agree that it will, of course, be that in the legislative work in Stortinget from time to time the Stortinget decides to change the laws in a way that separates us from the other Nordic countries. - Yes, of course. My point was that then it should happen with open eyes. Then you have to be aware of that, and you have to consider that consideration for all the other reasons you have to take. But the condition that the Storting can do that is that the Government has done its job in facilitating the assessment of the relationship with the legislation of the other Nordic countries. That's where I hope the Council of State will follow up and make sure it comes in place, so that there is an unambiguous order to all our departments to do so. So to the little exchange I had with the Minister for Foreign Affairs – it's always dangerous to use images. When I said that Iceland is "on the move", I didn't mean to discuss Iceland, for example. its NATO membership. But what's a fact is that the earthquake you're now inside is definitely going to force the Icelandics to reorient themselves, for example. in the case of its outsourced currency. This could very easily lead to a change in Nordic architecture towards Norway becoming the only Nordic countries outside EU cooperation. It will turn the EEA Agreement into a bilateral agreement between Norway and the EU at night and will cause significant problems for Norway in the course of its continuation. The Minister of Foreign Affairs did not comment on this with one syllabus. I would have been very grateful if he had made an attempt to comment on it – at least with one syllable.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e990	The representative of Brørby has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e993	I just have to repeat myself. I'm probably not alone in this room maybe talking about «too better knowing» at times. But in this particular case, when it comes to how to form a party group in the Nordic Council context, I know that I am on a safe basis. That is why I have to repeat it: the Nordic Council Rules of Procedure are such that it provides for party members from two countries to form a party group. Then you can look at the middle group, which probably consists of 10–15 different parties, but it has to be members from two countries. You might think it's wrong, you might think it's unfair, or you could put other labels on something that might not be very pleasant. But that's what the legislation is today. It is now up to the Progress Party to take advantage of the opportunity to find a partner, or for example. become a member of one of the already existing party groups – that is also an option. But it's up to the Progress Party. I think it's strange that they don't try it, because they actually lose a lot of money on it as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e998	It is evident in Norway’s interest to participate in this cooperation. It is clearly up to ourselves to a very large extent what we want out of this cooperation, where we sit in a common forum with three countries that are EU members. And not least this with networks, as I mentioned in my first post, is important and crucial, and there's something we have to cultivate further in this context. It is also important in this network building to have the direct dialogue with our neighbouring countries and with our autonomous units, which we meet on this basis. And I think we have good experience in many ways of being an example for the rest of the world. ‘North as a winner’ region’ and various adjectives used in this context, I think is the concept that all the political parties can stand behind. Then I will quote from the speeches of the party representatives today. So it's defined that you're lying and swollen from my side. But the Advancement Party should not feel wrong when quoting what they have said from this pulpit. I have some experience from this forum, Stortinget, as among others. I have contributed to the fact that I have listened to the annual statements and presentations of this paper by the party representatives – and it has never been possible to misunderstand them. I repeat that I have the greatest respect for the representatives who have spoken today, but they get to stand by what they have said. I quickly quoted concepts such as ‘small concrete’, ‘snilt’, ‘cooperation without visions’, ‘shy’ – yes, it may be nice, but I’m not sure if it was polite in this context – ‘consensual character’, ‘pull under the carpet’, ‘coffee club’, ‘skjer klein’, etc. I think it's better than to practice a sport that the Progress Party masters quite well – to feel wrong – to stand by what you've said from this pulpit. I have no criticism of the efforts of the respective representatives in different Nordic Council contexts where they had to represent their own party. But the image created from this gives relatively clear evidence of the kind of commitment you have, and the kind of approach you have to this collaboration.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e1016	The representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen has spoken twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e1019	In practice, people usually want to listen to those who have to feel unwell – and that is what the Progress Party is doing. We feel that we are not being treated on the basis of the same equivalency, on the basis of democratic rights, as the other representatives, in terms of Nordic cooperation. We know how the laws were in the mid-1990s. We know when the laws were changed. We know what's going on in terms of a new change – and that suggests that we're actually back about where we were in the 1990s. It's not a violent change, it's more a repetition of itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e1027	Well, the Progress Party can play the rules – and we know that they are not designed in Stortinget. But we must be allowed to come with our heart rate anyway. As the representative of Brørby also says, we know how to set up a party group. But neither this delegation nor the rest of the Nordic Council will in any way bring us into the arms of the Danish People's Party – at all. In addition, I also pointed out in my speech that the Bureau, the Budget Groups and the election of members of the Committee have nothing to do with the party groups – it is independent of the party groups. It is our delegation to the Nordic Council that decides. So I can't see that we've been taken into account there either. But I hope it changes gradually, when you actually realize that we're working hard and have a lot of commitment. Then I'd like to comment on the representative of Kristiansen. He focuses on the words in our articles that are negative. So far it is quite right and we stand by them – every word we stand by. But what Kristiansen forgets is to focus on the positive. In fact, we all have a balance in our contributions: cooperation is important. Common challenges, good cooperation and broad community did not mention Kristiansen. It seems that the representative from the Right is now looking for percentages, that he is going to score cheap points by making the Progress Party as a negative and suspense party, which we are not at all – that is the commitment we are making to the Nordic Council, absolutely show. So I hope that the representative Kristiansen will remain too good to continue to harass the Advancement Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e1038	The representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e1041	The representative Ivar Kristiansen may find it nice to come to the Nordic Council, meet his conservative colleagues over a glass of finer brandy and discuss the last golf trip. But there will be no policy, and that is what the Progress Party has called for in this debate. If you see it as the Progress Party that takes itself out of party group cooperation, yes, we invite the party groups to invite the Advance Party into the existing party groups – and we will evaluate it. Then we'll see if Inge Wohnning and Ivar Kristiansen could be interested in having the Advance Party in their party group. The initiative is theirs. Then I react to this with money, as Berit Brørby pulls up. The Progress Party is not concerned with money, we're concerned with politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e1050	The representative of Inge Wohnung has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e1053	I record with mild wonder that the severity of the movements of the mind continues to rise. Of course, heart sugar is allowed, but for my part, I believe that they are preferably in the payroll chamber and not in the Stortinge pulpit. It can be used for more specific things. To the extent that one is frustrated, as some representatives of Nordic cooperation are obvious, one should not exclude the work hypothesis that one is to blame for it. The right of initiative for participation in party group cooperation at the Nordic Council is not with the party groups, which are to ask other parties to apply for admission. It's the most twisted idea I've ever heard. Of course, it is up to each party to decide its own policy and how to cooperate with others. But it's an advantage for political parties that they're putting their rags behind them!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e1060	No more people have asked for the word on the matter. 3 and 4. [[Footing, see page 284]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e1076	At the request of the Committee on Churches, Persuasion and Research, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e1085	The Norwegian language is constantly evolving. The use of Norwegian languages and a common language understanding are a strong identity builder across social, economic, cultural and ethnic dividing lines. It is therefore important that we develop skills and positive attitudes towards the use of Norwegian languages through kindergarten and school. Language is essential for the good functioning of a society. We are part of a globalized world, both economically and culturally. It also increases the need for a comprehensive language policy that emphasises both the Norwegian language and its development, as well as the diversity of languages through all-round foreign-language competence. As a nation, it is absolutely essential for us to master foreign language. Not least, it concerns our business, which is largely part of the globalised world where good language understanding is often crucial to success, just as good foreign-language competence is necessary if we want to increase internationalisation in higher education and research. Well-developed oral language has a self-esteem. Early and good language stimulation helps to give children an opportunity to express themselves, to understand and to participate in the community. I want to stress the importance of all children having good language skills when they start school. Kindergartens have a very central role to play in this respect. It is, however, that there are also children who do not go to kindergarten. For these children, it is essential that municipalities have systems that detect children with special language stimulation needs and provide them with good and easily accessible services. Being able to read is essential for further learning. It is therefore of concern when studies show that children do not develop sufficient literacy skills to participate in further education and professional life. It is therefore essential that we strengthen the work to improve the literacy of students. I am very pleased with the strengthening measures that have been put in place to improve the reading skills of the children. Not least, I think it is essential that we have extended the hours in the Norwegian language at the nursery school, and I would like to stress the importance of prioritisation of reading and writing training through the extension of hours. Like good reading skills, good writing skills are also important. Reading and writing training is interrelated. The Committee has noted that the establishment of the National Centre for Reading and Reading in Stavanger has been successful and would like to establish a corresponding national centre for writing and writing research. A minority of the Committee has proposed that it be set up in Trondheim, which the majority of the Committee believes is the right place of establishment. But the majority believe that we need to take time and wait until all the professional environments that have been requested have been given the opportunity to respond, so that we are sure that the establishment of such a national centre has broad support in the professional environments. I would like to point out that the Norwegian language situation with large dialect variations and two Norwegian target forms is an important resource. It is of great importance that one maintains both book goals and new Norwegian as two fully developed, social writing languages. It is important that students in Norwegian school get an early start in both forms of education. In particular, it is important to start early with new Norwegian in those schools that have book goals as a training goal. Students who have a neo-Norwegian education target read both target forms in parallel from the start of reading. It is worrying, however, that students who have a newly acquired goal of training do not receive their educational resources at the same time and at the same price as students who have book goals. It is therefore gratifying that the Minister of Knowledge promised yesterday to escalate the initiative on the new Norwegian subject by several million kroner both this year and next year. It is absolutely necessary to meet the objective of two equivalent writing languages in Norway. The Sami language is recognised as an official language in line with Norwegian. The Committee has taken on board the challenges that exist and has noted that there is a great shortage of Sami-speaking teachers for kindergarten and school and that there are difficulties in recruiting people in scientific positions. Furthermore, the Committee stressed the particular importance of paying greater attention to the smallest Sami languages, lulesamic and southern Sami. In such a situation, it is important to continue the system of national responsibilities for Sami teacher training and to maintain the focus on higher Sami education and research. The Storting Communication is very rich in content and a good contribution to developing the Norwegian language and linguistic diversity through all-round foreign-language competence. Finally, I would like to ask the Progress Party and the Right to submit proposal No. 2, on two separate examination days for Norwegian main goals and Norwegian side goals. Government parties do not necessarily disagree, but need some more time before they can reach a final decision on future examination.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e1106	I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur for a good job. While the Progress Party is positive that it has made its own big message on language training and stimulation, it is disappointing that the communication in some areas is very detailed, while other areas receive much less mention. In fact, there are some ‘target groups’ who feel completely left out. The ability to communicate and master the language says something about the individual's identity. Being able to understand is essential to the individual’s self-esteem. We are pleased that there is cross-political agreement to stress that Norwegian is the social language here in the country. It is therefore extremely worrying that Norwegian school is characterised by an increasing degree of reduced Norwegian skills among primary school students. Lack of language skills leads to major problems for more students in acquiring the necessary knowledge in many subjects. So in our opinion, 25 pst is not acceptable. by Norwegian schools there are no procedures for following up a student on suspicion of learning difficulties. The notification reserves the right not to move into the special field of education. In this way, all forms of communication other than sign language seem to be considered special pedagogics. The Party of Progress does not agree with such a view. The communication takes little account of adapted training and the challenges it will face in terms of language training and language stimulation. We believe that this could have been done without going into concrete measures in the field of special education. It is clear that the government parties are waiting for the work of the Midlyng Committee, and on that basis the problems are pushing ahead. The Progress Party will stress the importance of adequate language stimulation for children. We have noticed that the government parties like to make the kindergarten as the most suitable venue for language stimulation measures, but we think this is too one-sided. In Norway, we have developed a school offer for an average student who does not exist. The collective mindset that lies behind the mounds of the kindergartens like the language stimulation arena is moving in the same ditch. Young children are also individuals with different assumptions. We must not forget that there is a great variety of individual relationships between children and young people. Increased time in kindergarten, SFO and school results in a similar reduction in children’s and young people’s association with friends, parents and other adults. The family is also very important as a socialisation institution and thus an important venue for language stimulation. Many children have good teachers in parents, siblings, family, and friends. It is therefore important to have an interaction between home and institution in order to be able to complement each other. The Progress Party has underlined the importance of providing assistance as early as possible to children in need of alternative and complementary communication. These children have no time to lose, and they cannot wait for a bureaucratic grinder to take decisions on special pedagogical assistance. Therefore, health and kindergarten staff must have knowledge of the existing auxiliaries and ensure that this information is passed on to their parents. We would also point out that if such assistance had been subject to a state financial responsibility, it would help ensure an equally good offer across the country. International and national tests have given us a factual basis to evaluate the relationship between Norwegian school and other countries, and not least to be able to say something about the quality of learning for individual students. For the Progress Party, it is important to point out that poor test results actually reveal an improvement potential. We want transparency about results and methods, so that schools can make a positive contribution to finding best practice. It is important to stress that different students have different assumptions and different positions, and therefore it is important to focus on the individual student’s potential and learning outcomes rather than on the system as such. Children with a migrant background need a good offer of Norwegian training. Norwegian schooling is essential for good integration. Norway may develop a significant social problem if the difference between ethnic Norwegian students and students with a minority background continues. One of the main reasons for poor language skills among 4-year-olds with a minority background is that they often have mothers who cannot understand Norwegian. If you give immigrant women strong incentives to learn Norwegian, this will at the same time make it easier for your children to integrate into Norway. The promotion party therefore wants to introduce its own compulsory Norwegian education programme for children and their mothers in cases where it is discovered that a child born and raised in Norway cannot be Norwegian at the 4-year control stage, through which all children must pass. In this way, children who do not master the language are taught this before school starts, and mothers are given the same opportunity, so that they can follow up their children. We also see that some primary schools with large sections of minority speakers have deliberately invested in Norwegian education and literacy. This, together with individual monitoring and follow-up, has led to a sharp decline in the number of students below the critical limit in Norway. It's alarming when as much as every five students have problems acquiring knowledge through reading. Lack of understanding of reading limits the ability to acquire knowledge in most subjects, and it weakens the possibility of both schooling and working life. As important as being able to read is being able to express yourself in writing. Writing skills are an essential prerequisite for success in a text-based, modern society. The Progress Party believes that coercive training helps to reduce students’ motivation in the Norwegian field and to disrupt students’ language perception. We therefore want to eliminate compulsory written side-by-side education, while verbal side-by-side objectives should be included in normal Norwegian education. We will stress the importance of the need for hard-heard and CI-operated students to have a legal right to language training of a class size that is professionally sound. Large classes, which in addition are characterised by trouble and unrest, are a major obstacle to their language development. With this, I will be allowed to address the proposals that the Progress Party is promoting together with other parties, and those that we are promoting alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e1142	The representative Jon Hunter Gåsvatn has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e1145	I too would like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur, Mr Kristoffersen, for the work he has done in the committee. The Storing Communication on Languages is an important message, not only because it focuses on Norwegian languages, but also because it is important to focus on foreign languages. Language is communication, language is very much identity, and it is absolutely vital to be able to function in society. The right, together with several other parties, is part of a proposal for, inter alia: alternative and complementary communication, in order to ensure that the children concerned are granted the rights to which they are subject. I just want to mention it initially, because I know that there are other representatives here today who are going to talk a lot about it, and I am therefore referring to what will then be said. In the case of Norwegian, there is little doubt that Norwegian as a basic skill is incredibly important. Language is, to a large extent, the tool for all other learning, and if there are major language gaps, the possibility of having major problems in learning other subjects is also great. For this reason, the Right and Left promote a proposal that the announced National Centre for Writing Research and Writing Training must be added to the South-Trunde Team – and that it must now be added to it. We believe that the experience from the Reading Centre in Stavanger is so positive that we do not have to wait to establish the Centre. And we also know, after all the enquiries we've received from all the writing and writing environments in the country, that it's where the center should be based on the wishes of the other environments. Language is also becoming more important as the linguistic borders become more distant. For example, Germany is Norway’s main trading partner, and trade partners outside Germany often have German as their first foreign language. It is important to develop languages early, and languages are known to be easy to learn for children. Several studies show that there is a clear trend across Europe to learn more languages than one, preferably three foreign languages. Many places are now doing this with great success, and it is in language areas that are much larger than Norwegian. This means that there should be good assumptions also in Norway and for Norwegian children to learn more languages. Right wants to introduce mandatory 2nd foreign languages at the youth level — a practically directed subject which was in the Knowledge Promise but which was removed by the current government. An increasingly multicultural society and increased interaction with other countries also call for greater language skills. That is why it is important to have a mandatory second foreign language in youth. The practical subject believes that the Right and several other parties will be important to improve the motivation for language learning, and it will be important to develop the methods in language learning. One of the first things that happened when the mandatory second foreign language was removed was that the teachers who had signed up for the upgrading of their skills – a completely necessary enhancement of their competence for language teachers – signed up because the municipalities no longer prioritised raising their skills in non-compulsory subjects. This means that, for example: English, which has been mandatory for many years, has developed intensively. It is an exciting and good subject, while in the case of e.g. German, which has not been compulsory, has progressed in the opposite direction. Of course, it doesn't help students to feel that learning language is more exciting. We in the Right also believe that it is important to start even earlier with language training where it is appropriate. So we want that in municipalities and schools with foreign language skills, foreign language training can start earlier. That is why, together with the Left, we are promoting a proposal to start with foreign language training also at the child and middle stages, and we know from many municipalities that it is done with great success. It is of great interest and it is good training in foreign languages. It is positive that we are today providing additional credits for programming in foreign languages other than English when entering higher education. We know that there is a weak search, and I think it has a strong connection with putting too little emphasis on foreign languages in high school. But the search can be better if you introduce extra points, and that's a proper grip from the Government. The right, together with the Progress Party, promotes a proposal to remove mandatory written secondary education, but will, of course, maintain dialect, cultural and literary teaching on a side-by-side basis as part of compulsory Norwegian training. It is interesting that not only language professors like Finn-Erik Vinje work for the proposal that the Right and Advance Party are promoting today, but also that the Student Organisation as late as yesterday handed over a bridging to the Council of State asking for the written secondary education to be optional. This is a good position, in which the Right supports the Student Organisation. At the same time, I would like to address the proposals to which the Right is a co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e1168	The representative Ms Soreide has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e1171	Nothing is as exciting as following the development of small children’s language – the first words, the enthusiasm and the sense of happiness they have by being able to understand. Children love to learn languages, and we politicians need to make sure that we give them the opportunity they should have to evolve at their own pace. Young people also expect their expectations and new goals to be met. It is important that we start early with language stimulation, including in kindergartens, and the Government has done a lot of good work to do so. It is also important that the municipality follow up the children who do not go to kindergarten, so that they get good language stimulation early. Language builds bridges, languages create identity, belonging and understanding, languages create communities, and languages create peace. We politicians have to make sure that everyone gets involved. The Socialist Left Party is very concerned that all children, young people and adults should feel mastery and experience learning. Not everyone feels that language stimulation is optimal. At school, many people strive to learn basic skills like reading and writing, and do not get the help they need when they need it. The kids should get that help when they need it. The Socialist Left Party is very pleased with the language message Language builds bridges, St.meld. No 23 for 2007–08, which goes to work in depth and proposes many good and important measures to improve the provision of language stimulation and language training to children, young people and adults. Measures are important, and this government has put in place many measures, including: increasing the number of hours in the Norwegian language from the first to the fourth stages from the fall of the year, and at the same time wanting to have more teachers in this subject. A national writing research centre is established. Materials are developed for reading and language stimulation and learning strategies for both school leisure and homework, as well as for the school. Several have been involved in the approach taken by the Government in relation to the extra points for those who choose a different programme subject from English in secondary education. This is important because we get a more and more globalized world, and it's important for our businesses. At the same time, SV is very pleased with the implementation of a school library development programme in the 2009 state budget. It shall enhance literacy, skills development and information skills. The programme shall enhance the quality of the school library provision for students. This is important, because the school libraries are one of the most important tools we have in school, which needs to be used even better. Minority-speaking children are an incredible resource for our society – society becomes multilingual and multicultural. Many of these wear because they do not get good enough native language training and Norwegian training. There's a great variety from municipality to municipality, and we've all read about the experiences students and teachers have had in the municipality of Oslo. Minority-speaking students are entitled to native language training until they are able to follow normal Norwegian training. If necessary, students are entitled to native language training or bilingual vocational training in addition to specific Norwegian training. It is necessary that municipalities go through their native language training and Norwegian training programmes, because it is important that students receive relevant, good offers. The government, and SV, have been very concerned that everyone should be involved. There are a lot of students who experience that they don't get help when they need it. One of the first things that this government did was to set down the Mid-Hungary Committee, which will review all the actions for students — children, young people and adults — that need extra resources, to coordinate this better, to get a device that works much better, and that is in place when children and adults need it. I've heard a lot of stories, both before and during the processing of this big message. An important issue that has been raised is that children who have had CI surgery have not received the help they need. The government is now working with a national counsellor. Today, the Stortinget makes a decision in which we say that the Government will come back with proposals for action, so that students who need extra help will receive this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e1186	This Communication discusses challenges and proposes measures to improve language stimulation and language training for children, young people and adults. This is an important message, which fortunately brings together broad support. The Christian People's Party agrees that one of the main objectives of kindergarten and school must be to develop good Norwegian skills and positive attitudes to the use of Norwegian languages. In the case of good Norwegian skills, I just have to say that I personally work on a daily basis that it is called ‘kino’ and not ‘sjino’ etc. And it is certain that there is a need to work more on it both in school and kindergarten, based on the personal experiences I have. I would also like to say that we support a mandatory foreign language in high school. The rest of the post I'm going to use on one special group, namely the rights of CI-operated children to linguistic development. The focus editorial in the NRK highlighted in our demanding game that four-year-old CI-operated Theo and his parents have led to a full school offer with sufficient special educational help. It turned out that the offer varies according to the country in which you live. When we here in Stortinget treated Ot.prp. No 40 for 2007–08, his story formed some of the backstop because CI-survived children’s rights were actually put on the agenda. Government parties commended the importance of the development of national guidelines and standards for the training of children with CI surgery and the need for guidelines and standards to ensure that children with CI surgery to learn speech are offered at the same level as deaf children to learn signs. What we did not get through, however, was to secure children who need linguistic development after a CI operation, as rights in the Training Act as those who need sign language. Representatives of the government parties later said in debates in the media that this would be sorted out when the language message was submitted. Therefore, it is disappointing, from our point of view, to observe that the Government has not fulfilled the expectations it itself has created. The message is relatively thin with regard to this theme, and at the top of it, government parties once again refuse to legislate adequately on the rights of CI-operated children. I am somewhat uncertain whether the government parties have fully understood the problem when they refer these students to special education. Here we are talking about a quite different situation than the children with reading and writing difficulties. For these students, it's about basic communication. The aim is for children to become linguistically speaking, and the development of language is also the desire of the parents of CI-operated children. CI-survived children will often function as mild to moderate, with the challenges of such a communication handicap in a training situation. The National Hospital, which carries out most of these operations in Norway and follows up these children after the operation, recommends focusing on linguistic developments. It will be central to ensuring good linguistic competence, and therefore these children will need a pedagogical offer where hearing and speech can be developed. For sign-language users as well as CI-operated children, this is about basic communication – not whether they have learning difficulties, but whether they should be able to communicate with other people on a daily basis. That's why this is about that we need to get a law for these children, too, so that they can communicate in their everyday lives. We have too many examples of disability in the family, children and parents have to fight this fight on their own. Theo’s history is one of many examples of this — because there is a struggle for special education tools, and many children have challenges. This group needs a basic communication, and we'd really like to get that in place. Then I understood that the proposals in which the Christian People's Party is co-sponsored were mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e1207	Language build bridges is the good and descriptive title of this message. Before I start talking about it, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his good treatment. Language is important. It also comes out here. It is crucial for our ability to communicate, to interact and to understand our own and those of others. Norway is a small area of language, and our language is under the influence — almost pressure — of other languages all the time. I'm sure we can all give examples of that. Here comes one: On my work path here every morning I walk past a café window where it says: «We have take away from coffee and sandwiches» – «sandwicher» with «er» at the end. This is a development that we notice, and to which many of us are skeptical. In particular, English has slipped into daily speech. We know industry terms from different disciplines that are not translated: funding and hedge funds. We understand what that means, but we don't know what that means. While I'm saying this, I'm of course going to stress that foreign language is absolutely necessary. But the point is, we need to have clear attitudes about using the language. It is therefore good that we have received this message, which highlights various aspects of language development and language stimulation. One of the main objectives of the Norwegian school must be to develop skills and positive attitudes to the use of Norwegian languages. Norwegian is the national common language that everyone needs to master in order to function in society, and it is central as an identity and cultural force in Norwegian society. After processing St.meld. No 16 for 2006–2007, Early efforts for lifelong learning, none of us doubt that language stimulation in early childhood is important. Barnhagen is therefore a well-suited arena for language stimulation measures in pre-school age. Kindergarten staff have a special responsibility to support children who may have different forms of communication difficulties, which are poorly linguistically active, or who have their language development. It is therefore important to be able to provide single children with the help they need before they start school. The training of children is primarily a municipal responsibility, and it is a well-known case that it works differently in the different municipalities. It is also a well-known matter that not all children go to kindergarten. It is therefore important that there are systems that capture non-infants who need additional language stimulation. I think health stations can be their own forum. Minority speaking children make up about 9 pst. by children up to the age of five. Sickness if child care participation for minority children has increased is lower than the average. Various approaches are now being taken into account, including: In 2007, the Norwegian subject of minority languages was converted in order to ensure a better transition between basic Norwegian and ordinary Norwegian training. Reading is essential for further training. It is worrying that many children do not develop adequate reading skills. Action is now being taken both in terms of several teaching hours and homework, but the most important thing is that the teacher’s competence is raised in different ways, both through guidance material and through training provision. Despite the consensus that it is important to have good literacy, there is not as good a knowledge base in this area as it does for literacy – despite the close link between reading and writing. Greater attention needs to be paid to the literacy skills of students. Therefore, the Ministry’s desire to set up a national writing training centre is very important. The Norwegian language is rich, with great dialect variation. Two Norwegian target forms are an important resource. It is therefore of great importance that a person maintains both book goals and new Norwegian as a full - grown, social writing language. Through the Knowledge Lift, language competence is one of the main objectives of the training. Yesterday, the government came with several good measures to strengthen new nostrils, among others. more money for teaching material, and in addition, it should be followed up to make the books look the same at school start-up – by the way, it should just be missing! Finally, Sami language is important. I would like to underline what the case-rapporteur had to say earlier today, and would therefore mention that Sami language teacher training is an important prerequisite for the preservation and development of Sami language and culture in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e1233	I want to start by saying that what a third person can believe by reading the number of pages is that there is deep and fundamental disagreement. But that's not it. There is an agreement within the Committee on the fundamental questions. There is agreement on the meaning of the Norwegian writing language and the Norwegian reading and speaking language, and then there is disagreement on important points. I think it's important to establish this. I have the simple impression that building a strong, Norwegian language – both spoken and written – at a time when languages are under pressure is very important to maintain this kind of consensus in politics. I, and Left, are also of the opinion that diversity in a language — and that includes respect for the neo-Norwegian writing and dialect tradition in Norway — does not contribute to weakening a language. It helps to strengthen the ability of a language to cope in the kind of world we live in. The broader the foundation of a language – as some people sometimes experience as a nuisance – the more one actually ensures an even more important foundation for the language as a whole, i.e. the Norwegian language of writing and speaking. In this context, I became quite contemplative at the hearing in the committee when I heard skilled people in the environment we have at NTNU, telling us what a great job we have in Norwegian writing. I have basically learned it myself, because on visiting rounds in Norwegian schools – when I meet teachers, students, parents and principals and they tell me what is going on in the school in Norwegian language – I can see everything they say. But when I try to understand this – even with 19 years of general education, which I have – I sometimes have problems with writing written by different parts of the public. Then I wonder, is there something about me? She can. Or is it like these people who work in writing, say, that you make so many writing forms that when it comes to public proceedings, it becomes a mixture of many written traditions – on the one hand, a legal tradition, and on the other, a corporate economic tradition, and on the other, some assumed public administrative practice tradition? When it mixes without being aware of what it is, I think the result can be demanding for everyone. I use this on purpose as an example, because a living democracy presupposes that the writing language, even when the species as expressed in the public administration process, should be inclusive – as well as inclusive as it is when we speak and meet each other. That is why the Left, together with the Right, proposes a writing training and writing research centre in Trondheim, and in the Committee I have seen that there is a lot of sympathy about that idea and the practical solution. So there's disagreement in the committee along some axes, and now I'm going to get to it. Firstly, there is a disagreement between the government parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party on the one hand, and the Right and the Advance Party on the other hand in relation to the relationship to neo-Norwegian and written training. It's long lines. Let me say that I'm selected urban, I'm selected from this city, but it's part of my general cultural background that I have the position I have. However, I understand that many people can respond to written news in school, because we can all admit that perhaps the greatest pressure has not been put on getting a good enough educational development here. Maybe we can do a lot more with that. I feel that there is a drawing that there is a broad willingness to be open to. Then we have another dividing line that's there, and that I want to emphasize. It makes a certain impression on me when we ask the Education Association during the hearing if they have checked the experience of their members in Oslo School – it is a school system that has 37-38 pst. linguistic minorities – so what are you going to have? Should one have native language training for all these people to learn Norwegian, or should one go directly into Norwegian? My experience is that if one does not go straight into Norwegian, one does not get better in Norwegian. This does not mean that the mother tongue is not important in many contexts, but I have gradually come to the conclusion that there is often a detour, while going well into the Norwegian language, is what makes it work. It's my practical experience from this broad school that we have in Oslo. I just want to encourage the Council of State to look at it -- not from theory, but from what the hard school of life tells about the practical experience. Then we have a disagreement in the committee that goes on alternative and complementary communication. There is a proposal on which the Left is involved. Our message of value is essentially that we understand that everyone wants these kids to feel good, but it doesn't help to have a formal right if you don't get it in practice. When much is passed as it is in our school, we have to make sure that the legal, either one has CI implants or other challenges, makes you have the rights in practice. That is why the proposal that has been put forward. Then the Left and the Right have two proposals in compulsory second language. And to bet on this is to build skills in relation to those who work on this, it's to be at the height of everything that's going on around us, and not least to give dignity, credit and strength to those who have minority languages, and who can thus experience that their minority language becomes the second foreign language. The left is behind the proposals we are co-sponsors of.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e1253	First of all, I would also like to thank the Committee and the spokesperson for a very good work and for the broad consensus on the main lines of the discussion of the language message. I also believe that the main reason for this is that it is impossible to get past or disagree with that language – oral, written and reading – is the core of and the basis of all other knowledge, for the most fundamental thing we have to learn to work well in life, simply. When speaking from young people is very small, we know how extremely important it is to have a good linguistic development in the first few years. A vocabulary is important for later language development at school and in other contexts, and that means a lot to social development. That is why we are putting so much emphasis on early language stimulation. Of course, we point to the nursery as the key arena for it, but also beyond it. Being able to read well is absolutely necessary in order to be able to cope with other subjects, and to obtain opportunities later. If you cannot read well, one is likely to wear in most other schools. Then reading a complicated math puzzle will be an obstacle before you start doing the math in the problem. Then one will have major problems later in working life. That is why we have also started a series of measures to strengthen literacy. Many of them are presented in this message, others in other contexts: several teachers and other educators, screening tools, review of curricula and other activities. It is quite right, as several representatives have pointed out, that we need to pay more attention to the written Norwegian language of the years to come, as well as to language and reading. I want to pay particular attention to that, because I think that we've had international research and national tests to map reading skills, but not in the same way write skills, maybe have attracted attention to reading. It's very good, but there must be an increased focus on the writing part of the Norwegian language in the years to come. That's why we're now working, as it's seen in other contexts, to also develop national tests in writing, which I think would be wise. In addition, we're going to create a national typing center. We're now in the final phase of a process where we have to do everything right and correct, but as fast as we can, to create it. I'm going to make sure we can do that next year. We need to get that work going quickly. In the case of elephants in need of language development, alternative and supplementary communication, or a combination of them, there are current rules in Chapter 5 of the Training Act on special education to ensure this. The centreline selection shall include: assess the extent to which we have a system that ensures early intervention for children with special needs and assess measures to ensure early response and lifelong learning. But we have to be aware that those who learn sign language learn a native language in the same way as the Norwegian language, but for example. Children with CI surgery to ensure linguistic development are entitled to special education — and, of course, a long way to go. I'm familiar with the extra issues. There are two slightly different problem options, which have to be solved in a slightly different way, but everyone has to get their rights met. Then we have two writing languages in Norway – two writing languages and dialect traditions, as the representative Dørum expressed. I don't think I can afford to keep up any dialect tradition at all. But when it's written, I agree with those who say that it's good that we have a wide majority that will build on the two writing languages. The multilingualism in Norway is also an important possibility on which we can use and build and on which we need to develop as a resource for the Norwegian community. We'll now bring down a selection that will go through some of the issues like this. The representative Dørum was inside from the pulpit, and brought a NOU. Finally, it is extremely important to bet on more languages in the years to come. We have challenges both in English and in other foreign languages, not least in German. So I'm very positive and will expand the possibilities to start early with a 2nd language. It's also very important that a lot more elephants use a second language in their youth. What has been a bottleneck in the last few years is a lack of deepening in furtherance. It's very serious. Therefore, new measures in the field of positive development in relation to the second language are important.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e1270	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e1273	We have a lot of trouble and unrest in Norwegian classrooms, and the municipalities are now warning that the weak local economy and the lack of teaching power lead to larger classes. In order to ensure the success of voice-scholar-scholar-scholar-scholar-scholar-scholar-scholar-scholar-scholar-scholar-scholar-scholar-scholar-scholar-scholar-scholar-scholar-scholar-scholar-scholar-scholar-scholar-scholar-scholar-scholar-scholar-scholar-scholar-scholar-scholar-scholar-scholar-scholar-s, various professionals have shown that the class-size should not exceed 15 students. My question is: what will the Council of State actually do to ensure this group of students across the country a professionally sound language training environment and useful tools, so that they can learn both Norwegian and foreign languages? We were told that the council referred to this as special pedagogy, and we know that the grinder paints very slowly.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e1280	I'm very familiar with this problem. I know that we have very big challenges, and not least that those who are CI-operated have a long way to go and big challenges of learning good language. However, those learning sign language should learn a language of their own, in line with e.g.: Norwegian, while those who have been CI-operative, those who want to develop language, will develop it with extra support and special help, and it will then be necessary to receive special educational support and assistance. What's important is to make sure that one actually gets the satisfaction of one's right. It can be challenging in the Norwegian community in many fields, and we're working to make sure that one actually gets the dishes, for example. by checking and supervising special education. I can also mention that by 1 April 2009, the Directorate-General for Education will set up a national guide for that particular group.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e1291	We can see the ringing effects of lack of foreign language training in many fields. A few years ago, German was a very large language area and a major subject at the University of Oslo. Today, it's considered one of the little subjects. It is a very worrying development, and there is no doubt that it is closely associated with too little and too poor language teaching in the early stages, and also in the early and middle stages, where possible, and not least that there has not been enough focus on language training in higher education. One of the important aims of introducing a mandatory, practical second language of foreign language at the youth level of the Knowledge promise was to provide teachers with adequate skills and, in particular, in the foreign languages which had not yet been mandatory, such as: German. So we saw, as I mentioned in my post, that the teachers signed up for the training because the language was no longer mandatory. My question to the Council of State is how to ensure that language teachers are given sufficient skills to develop the subject, to conduct exciting methodology and education that attracts more students.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e1300	Firstly, I agree with the representative Eriksen Soreide in the objective, and I also agree that for a good few years it has not been enough in the forward language of Norway. But I disagree when she looked at the degrees emphasising one measure, simply mandatory 2nd language of the youth, especially since the large majority of students, a clear increase, now a 2nd language of the youth. We actually have luck with a development there. But the big bottleneck is continuing, where only a few hundred take central languages as German, French and Spanish. In particular, it applies to German, in which I'm completely in agreement, is a very important language, but that only a few hundred are well in depth. We also have major challenges at university level. I think it is more important to bet on a wide range of actions at youth level, so that more people choose it and get a previous start – but not least in further and higher challenges. Then we need skills enhancement in the leading languages, also in English, I want to add, and in other areas. That's where we saw big funds next year. But we need a lot of subjects in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e1307	I also heard the Council of State talk about those who are CI-surgery, in their post. It is a fact that children in need of language development are referred to as special education rather than as students in need of sign language. That's what's the theme of my line. Does the Council agree that both sign language users and CI-survived children are concerned with basic communication, not whether they have learning difficulties, but whether they should be given real opportunities to communicate with other people on a daily basis? If the answer to this question is yes, why is it problematic for the Government to amend the Training Act so that students in need of language development, sign language development, alternative communication or supplementary communication, or a combination of these, are guaranteed equal rights in the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e1316	I mean it's about a question of giving equal opportunities, but one doesn't automatically get equal opportunities of equal law. Some learn a native language, sign language, others go a long way, a longer way than many other children, to come up and learn a language. When you get an individual assessment of the help you need, and you get special educational help, that doesn't mean that you have special challenges and need extra help and support to get there, and that you have to get it after an individual assessment. I mean, this is talking about different groups. There are also large individual differences between children and children, and the important thing is that everyone should be offered as well as possible on the basis of their premises. Therefore, the main problem here is not a promise, but that one can actually meet this in practice for each child.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e1323	Governments say that there are a lot of people who use the optional system of a second foreign language in high school. That's good. So the government parties have said that we should think about those who don't, so that they can gain strength in Norwegian. Personally, I believe, and also the Left believes, that reinforced Norwegian is about the Norwegian profession in general. But my question should be a follow-up to this with a mandatory second foreign language. Does not the Council of State see that by making this compulsory, one will simply increase the ambition of the subject and of the languages that enter into it, strengthen the status and respect of the teachers who work on it, so that we are sure that their competence is as high as possible? Does not the Council of States see that – not through the optional road of which he has been a follower, but by making it mandatory – one can help to make the final stone so strong that the teachers feel strongly motivated and that we get built-up skills? Does he not see that it can actually be a good tool to build status and respect for foreign languages in school?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e1330	I am among those who have often been able to see arguments both for and against a question, and this is a question where I can see arguments both ways. However, what has been decisive in my view is that I am quite overestimated that other measures are far more important, and that it is not the youth class that is today an obstacle or a bottleneck – rather, on the contrary, it is at the youth level that we may have the most positive developments when it comes to a second language. On the other hand, I am very concerned about going on when it comes to deepening, and for higher education. The second is that there is no doubt that it is a great advantage for many Norwegian elephants to learn a second language in their early life. On the other hand, I am not sure that it is best for all the students in the youth school to start in a second language when, in addition, they are struggling in many schools, thinking of different directions before schooling and needing extra weight to get some basic things. That's why I've fallen to the position that I have.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e1335	Norway is facing a number of challenges, including: reduced motivation and interest on the part of students. Knowledge in Norwegian has been reduced. This concerns us in the Progress Party, as good skills in Norwegian provide the basis for increased understanding in many other subjects. My question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State as the Progress Party believe that abolishing mandatory written cross-cutting training and offering this as an electoral subject could increase the motivation and interest in the Norwegian subject, improve the skills of students in Norwegian and thus also facilitate learning in other subjects?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e1343	No, I don't agree with that. I think Norway is excited that we have elephants that have a good knowledge base and that are tried out in both of these writing languages. A significant part of the population writes the minority writing language, and both are important. My personal experience is that I have had new Norse goals and book goals as side goals, and that the training I have had in book goals, and that it has been part of school life, are useful things that I take with me. I work with languages in my daily life, and I work a lot with book lyrics and people who write book goals. I think it would have been useful knowledge to bring with me from school. I think the same thing applies to the other way. So I think we're still going to have the elephant that's both being tried in both writing languages and being trained in both writing languages in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e1348	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e1353	Based on what has emerged in the debate today, especially from the Right and the Left, I would like to say the following: we need to strengthen foreign language competence among Norwegian school students. Norwegian students do well in English, but only English is not enough. This is why it is an important objective for the vast majority of students to have a second foreign language at secondary school. Some students experience a lack of motivation in childhood. In part, I think this is because some people feel that there is not a high enough requirement for them. It's depressing not to get enough challenges. But for others, the motivational flaw is linked to the fact that they have fallen off many of the theoretical subjects. We do not want mandatory second language to lead these students to more defeats in school. But by not having mandatory 2nd foreign language doesn't mean we don't have ambitions on behalf of the school or the students. On the contrary, we have ambitions for all students to experience mastery. This means that those who do not master Norwegian or English will have the opportunity to learn it well. We believe this is in line with the commitment to basic skills. When we know that 20 pst. Of those leaving high school, they have such poor literacy skills that they will face major problems in higher education, we believe that the most important thing is to make these students better in Norwegian or English. The choice of language courses at youth level can be made in cooperation between teachers, parents and students themselves. When we introduced the new system, we thought that it would involve responsible choices. Today we see that it has done so. As the Council of State said, today there is an increasing proportion of students who choose language courses in high school. Of 60,000 students, it is about. 2 000 which selects Norwegian depression, and that is approx. 10000 which selects English immersion. The rest actually chooses another foreign language, in Spanish, German and French. The challenges ahead are to motivate secondary school students to invest in a foreign language other than English. I am pleased with the measures that have been taken in high school, given the need for more people to choose a language course. These include both measures with a more appropriate structure and the introduction of additional credits for programming in foreign languages other than English in the case of admission to higher education. Norway needs people with good language skills in order for us to be able to participate and assert ourselves in the international community. Finally, back to the location of a national writing training and writing research centre: it is the case that the universities will deliver their opinions by 7 November, and we are actually expecting agreement on placement in Trondheim and HIST. With respect to the deadline for consultation, I ask the Right and the Left to submit proposal No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e1368	Language stimulation and training for children, young people and adults are central to this government’s language training policy. It's about emphasising the overall language situation. It's about counteracting the unfortunate consequences that you can get from, for example. a total language exchange for young children. The framework plan for kindergarten points out that a well-developed mother tongue is the basis for good language development in children. It is important that municipalities have the opportunity to create a good framework for good, professional knowledge development and that they are given the opportunity to strengthen the work of language stimulation for pre-school children. Language competence is about using languages in a functional way, including in training contexts. The term ‘oral competence’ covers both the capacity for social interaction and the ability to provide thoughts, knowledge, experience and views, especially in public spaces. This is essential in order to be able to participate in the social debate in an equivalent manner, and not least in the case of children and young people from minority populations. The government emphasises the strengthening of Norwegian linguistic and multilingual diversity and a Nordic community. In addition, it is also important to emphasise and facilitate an all-round foreign-language competence, which has been widely discussed here today. I want to focus more on the Nordic languages, that is, the Nordic languages and the state languages in the Nordic countries. In this context, I would like to refer to the Declaration on Nordic Language Policy, which is also the starting point of this Communication. This is in addition to the language of the state-supporting people. The starting point is that the social languages of the Nordic region are and remain strong and alive, and that those who are social bearers remain socially sustainable. This requires parallel use of the languages, which means that we should counteract the monolingual norms and that they should form the basis for the professional development in this area. For the Sami people, the right to basic Sami training is essential in order to exist as a people and to preserve Sami as a social and cultural language.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e1381	Of course, it is tempting to add a comment to the Council's response to my reply, namely that there are just as many people who now choose 2nd foreign languages at the youth stage. It is very good that they do it, but it reinforces the argument to make it mandatory, precisely because then you also get sufficient skills and develop the methods in the subject. But what I took the floor to say very briefly was that the case-rapporteur, Gerd Janne Kristoffersen, asked us to consider submitting a proposal no. 8 to establish a Centre for Writing Research and Writing Training at the University of Southern Trøndelag. It's decided on the right and the left that we can do, but with a couple of clear assumptions. One assumption is that the centre will be established in the next year. The second is that the opinions that come from the professional communities are given decisive consideration, because it is quite obvious that at the University of South-Trondelag, the professional focus of writing research and writing training is on the subject. The third assumption is exactly what I'm now saying, that it's going to be a center for both writing research and writing training, just as you have a reading research and reading training center in Stavanger.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e1388	The Progress Party wants primarily to abolish mandatory written side targets, which we are also proposing today. But as long as we have this system, we believe it is important to have two separate exam days for main goals and side goals. We have been invited to re-examine the proposal for a transmission proposal here today, and we have discussed it with the Right. We can accept that, but we assume that the government then looks seriously at it, because we know what problems it created with language confusion for the students who were exposed to this entire day of exams in the current year. I want to go back a little bit to those CIs that are strongly focused on here today. The CI surgery seems to be easy to moderate to heavy hearing. I think it quickly gets focused on it, not least because of the focus entry. But we must not forget those who are born with heavy hearing and who are really struggling in Norwegian classrooms today. In the past, the Progress Party has called for a number of measures to be taken against fighting and unrest, and I am somewhat disappointed that the only government council refers to are special pedagogical measures. It does not affect what all professionals say about it, that here it is the class size that is crucial, and it has been shown that classes that exceed 15 students are directly unlucky. In view of that, I think concepts that were used, such as ‘early work’ and ‘adapted education’, are losing some effect. In fact, here it is important that we get a training offer that enables these groups to learn languages in a good way. I would also like to point out that the opposition has said that we want both alternative and complementary communication, language and sign language or a combination of it to be included in the Training Act, to have the same, equal rights. There is a joint committee subsidized that if our proposal were to be defeated, we have confidence that the government will look at what other measures may be necessary to ensure equal rights for all these groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e1397	No more people have asked for the floor in case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 284]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e1413	The size shall today consent to the Agreement on the European Wergeland Centre between the Council of Europe and Norway. The Centre shall support the Council of Europe's efforts to promote democracy, human rights, intercultural dialogue and understanding. With the exception of Belarus, all European countries are members of the Council of Europe. It gives a certain perspective on the meaning this center can get. I will not go into all aspects of the Centre, but I would like to add some comments to the part of the objective of continuing education and support for teachers and teachers in the field of training and professional development in intercultural understanding, human rights and democratic citizenship. During the last session of the Council of Europe in September to October this year, the Parliamentary Assembly dealt with two issues that are particularly relevant in this context: one issue of political participation among young people and one issue of the importance of teacher and teacher training for the promotion of democracy and human rights. The Wergeland Centre in Oslo thus becomes a resource centre for achieving important European objectives in the field of human rights. The importance of educating young people in respect of human rights must not be underestimated. Children are not born intolerant. They're learning to be. Nor are children born with knowledge of human rights. They have to learn about them. The question is how. It is hardly a question of finding the right way, rather of continuously developing new methods and disseminating best practices across borders. The Wergeland Centre will thus make an important contribution to improving teachers’ ability to disseminate and understand the importance of democracy and human rights among the growing generation. Human rights are a fragile plant that still needs to be protected. History shows that there is a potential for human rights violations in all countries. The best way to protect democracy is to ensure that new generations learn about and understand the ideas behind human rights, while learning the history of violence and abuse in the world, in Europe and in our own country. Norway has become a multicultural society. Tolerance, understanding and interaction are important keywords of future Norway. We don't start on scratch. Firstly, we have training programmes for teachers in charge of several voluntary human rights organisations. In addition, human rights are the subject of a number of curricula at different levels, ranging from kindergartens to higher education. However, the weak point is a generally low level of competence among Norwegian teachers, a lack of learning material and little professional development. The Oslo University is one of the foremost in the country. They shall cooperate closely with the Wergeland Centre. That's good. But I also want to mention the development work that is being done in my own home area at the University of Buskerud. Human rights are integrated into several disciplines, such as state science and training for teachers. In addition, there is a separate subject of human rights, multicultural understanding and peaceful conflict management used by international relief workers, NATO staff and teachers — to name a few. The university is working on putting in place a new master's degree in human rights. They run human rights schools in Iraq and work together in the EU project to develop a new European teacher training programme with Sweden, Denmark, Turkey and the Czech Republic. They participate in the Council of Europe’s training programme for teacher training in human rights and, together with the Municipality of Drammen, they have been running human rights schools with the City of Mostar in Bosnia and Herzegovina since 1999. Whether this is best practice, I don't know, but it's at least good practice. There are probably many and similar examples from several countries. The European Wergeland Centre will be an important instrument in the coordination and dissemination of good experience. In the end, I would like to say that I am a little proud that this is coming in Norway, and will give tribute to the Government to promote this important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e1433	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 285]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e1441	The size is now ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e7010	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e7052	During the debate, nine proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Jon Jäger Gåsvatn on behalf of the Advance Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Proposals No. 2 and 3, by Jon Jäger Gåsvatn on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 4, by Jon Jäger Gåsvatn on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No. 5, by Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 6 and 7, by Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, on behalf of the Progress Party, and proposals No. 8 and 9, by Ine Marie Eriksen Søreide, on behalf of the Right and Left Proposal No. In the course of the debate, 8 have been converted into a transmission proposal and reads as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government establish a Centre for Writing Training and Writing Research at the University of Southern Trøndelag.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e7095	I voted wrong. I voted in favour, but I should have voted against.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e7100	Then there were 80 representatives who voted against the proposal and 21 who voted in favour. The proposal has thus been rejected. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 7 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e7125	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 5, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to introduce a practical, mandatory second foreign language at the youth level.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e7140	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 4, from the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the necessary legislative changes that ensure a language training environment of a class size that is professionally sound and operated by the hard-to-heard and CI.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e7156	Proposal No. In the course of the debate, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities adopted a number of amendments to the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of ‘It is recommended that the Government ensure that the master’s degree in the primary school for Norwegian primary and Norwegian secondary objectives takes place in two separate days.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to abolish compulsory written cross-cutting training and to offer it as an electoral subject. Oral secondary education, dialectic teaching and literary and cultural knowledge remain part of compulsory Norwegian education.»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e7179	There is now a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a change to the Training Act so that students in need of language development, sign language development, alternative communication, supplementary communication, or a combination thereof, are guaranteed equal rights in the Law.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e7207	The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are behind the position I, but the President assumes that the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left now want to support this proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23.ana.ud2327e7261	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
