ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04-lower.ana.ud98e41	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be three replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04-lower.ana.ud98e50	A single committee is essentially in line with the new amendments to the Children’s Act, which relate to travel expenses and child allowances. I would like to thank the Committee for being able to deal with this matter quickly and effectively, despite both the complexity and the short time we actually had on the matter. Then we're going to hope that the regulations come into place quickly, so that the law changes can take effect as soon as possible. Having said that, I must also be allowed to say that it is difficult to get the full overview of the rules on contributions as such, when half of the changes take place through regulation and something happens through administrative practices. So the total picture can be hard to see, and it might help to confuse you a little bit. But there is no doubt that we agree that what we want to fight is the high level of conflict in some cases, where the parties do not agree on association and contributions. In these grips that are now done in the law, this suggests that we should see a improvement on just this. Because it is a terrible wish for children to suffer, because they do, when parents do not agree on matters of association and contribution. Therefore, the Committee is very pleased that it chooses to make provision for travel expenses incurred by consensual parents in connection with association also to be taken into account in the distribution of travel expenses. It is important that the child be with both his or her parents, and that it is not so that cohabiting parents do not have an association for economic reasons. I'll go over to talk about the minority's proposal in the case, and assume that the majority is making their point of view known. In May 2007, we discussed in the Stortinget the evaluation of the new Innst grant scheme. S. No 185 for 2006-2007, where a Joint Committee agreed to the calculation of living costs also by class 2 of association. It becomes incredibly unpredictable, when you change your mind in the same government, but with different state councils. For those concerned, this is very important, and it is important for everyone to have a predictable framework to deal with. It cannot be excluded that someone has now planned to receive a Class 2 deduction on the basis of the unanimous decision taken by the Stortinget a year and a half ago. Now you might get an extra financial burden because the government and the majority choose a different solution. There are not many and major changes that we are dealing with now, but we still hope that the level of conflict can be reduced somewhat, in particular considering that there is a formidable increase in cases of co-operation and contributions that end up in court. This should indicate that you are going more firmly than before. Perhaps this has something to do with the fact that we are increasingly involving father – which is good – for example. when the child is small, through paper commissions and other. Not one negative word about paper commissions, but as legislators and decision-makers, we have taken on board that the stronger the ties between father and child, the harder it is to break them. What I really want to say is that I understand that there are conflicts, and that you fight for what you love. So maybe the Council of States can think a little bit about whether not automatically shared care would have been the best and the most conflict-absorbing. It's not coming now, but it's coming later. And then I hope that the rules that we're supposed to be coming, come and be in line with what's being said in the proposition. With this I will address the minority proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04-lower.ana.ud98e73	The representative Karin S. Woldseth has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04-lower.ana.ud98e76	The proposals for the amendment of the Children’s Act are based on the evaluation of the rules on contributions that were discussed by the Stortinget on 15 May 2007. The evaluation showed that the reform functioned broadly after the intention, but there was a need for some changes and adjustments. That's what's now being promoted in this proposition. We know that there are many more who enter into private contracts than before, and the contributions are more consistent with the cost of caring for children of different ages. It also appears that association has increased somewhat, and cooperation between parents who do not live together seems to have improved somewhat. In the context of Storting’s treatment of the contribution reform in 2001, there was broad agreement on the principle that the scale of the contribution should be affected. Seeing that there was a broad consensus in Stortinget on this principle, experience has shown that in practice it is precisely this part of the new legislation that has led to most problems. Whether this has led to an increase in the level of conflict is far too early to establish. However, some regulatory adjustments are needed in this area. The law provides that the scope of association is to be based on a written agreement. Still, we know that up to 35 pst. have an oral agreement on association. It is now proposed to ease the requirement of written procedure and to equate oral agreements with written procedures. Furthermore, private contracts entered into for public purposes shall be amended only if the amendment constitutes more than 12 pst. Furthermore, a system of automatic adjustment of the contribution is proposed when the child moves into a new age group. It is proposed that the expenses of parents for travelling on their own for the purpose of retrieving and bringing together should be covered by the provision on the sharing of travel expenses in Section 44 of the Children’s Act. All these proposals are widely supported in the Committee – the Committee is unanimous. Under current law, expenses related to the child's living costs are not included with the cohabitation parent in the cohabitation allowance. In the context of the deliberation process, the Committee supported the extension of the system of deductions from cohabitation to that of the child's living costs with the cohabiting parent and that this would apply to both classes of cohabitation, 3 and 4. In the proposition, however, the Government does not propose to include class 2. The reason for this is that the calculation of the new rates has shown that including living costs in the consensual deduction in the group with the least consensual relationship, namely class 2 of consensual association, could result in a negative distribution effect that could affect the child. The majority of the Committee supports the Government's proposals. We in the government parties are concerned about the families with the lowest incomes, and see from the estimates that the deduction of living expenses for this group will be extremely unfortunate and could go out on the child. We also know that, after the introduction of the new contribution system, there is a tendency that the most economically disadvantaged people are using the public system, while the resources are increasingly making private agreements. In conclusion, I would like to remind you that there is no contractual freedom in this area and that the State does not intervene in private contracts. Parents can freely agree whatever they want. This legislation only enters into force when the parents are unable to reach agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04-lower.ana.ud98e108	There are three main objectives underpinning the reform of contributions. The first is the care of the child — parents must divide according to their financial ability as fair and as reasonable as possible. Secondly, the legislation shall encourage association with both parents. And thirdly, it's going to facilitate more private contributions agreements. So I'm glad that there's a great deal of consensus about a lot of what we're proposing here. Parents share a shared responsibility to contribute to the child’s best contact with both parents. By extending the provision on the costs to be borne by both parents in connection with association, we want to strengthen this responsibility. When it comes to living expenses, it is clear that I understand what the representative Woldseth says about predictability being important. At the same time, we have a responsibility when we see that the legislation is unfair. Once the mortgage charges have been adjusted on the basis of a change in the cost of living – it is the SSB's figure that underlies the estimates we are going to have of housing costs – we have seen that it would have a very negative impact on a good number of people. Then many would have very low contributions. It is also not correct, as the representative Woldseth says, that there was unanimity on this point when the Stortinge dealt with this last issue. Right, Christian People's Party and Left did not want to include living expenses either for class 2, 3 or 4 at the time. I think it is important that we now make some changes to make these rules work well, and that it is sound based on the desire to provide a good economy, and not least a good place to live – a sound financial situation with regard to residence – where the child lives most. In the case of consensual class 2, it covers from four to eight days. It will now be proposed during the spring to change the norm for what is called ‘regular association’ to up to 10 days. Then class 2 of association will be what is ‘usual association’. We have also received many computational examples of this that show that the contributions are very low when you take this with housing costs, so I think this is quite reasonable changes that have a very clear social profile. In conclusion, like Gunn Karin Gjul, I would like to remind you that parents can freely agree on both the amount of the child contribution and how the travel costs of association are to be allocated, thus adapting the amount to the different situations. So we've seen some increase now in company, it's averaged eight days a month. Whether it's because of social change or the contribution reform itself, I can't say with certainty, but at least it's going in the right direction. Children now have more contact with both parents after divorce, in line with what was meant by the changes in the rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04-lower.ana.ud98e128	It's going to be a string shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04-lower.ana.ud98e131	As I said in my post, large parts of these changes are in the form of regulations or administrative practices. I therefore have two specific questions to the Council of State: Can we be sure that the regulations that are coming are in line with the proposition? And when does the Council expect this legislative amendment to come into force by regulation?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04-lower.ana.ud98e138	These regulatory changes will enter into force relatively quickly. As regards predictability, account shall be taken of the costs of society. Now that we've seen some kind of increase in the butchers' fees, it's changed, but we don't intend to constantly change the rules in this area. I see clearly that if we allow these changes to happen very often, it becomes very unpredictable for the individual. But we thought that this change in legislation was important from looking at the economy of some vulnerable families with poor finances.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04-lower.ana.ud98e145	I think perhaps the Council of State misunderstood my question. What I was asking was, can we be sure that the regulations are consistent with the proposition? I also have one more question: in the case of class 2, children who live with their cohabiting parents between four and eight nights in a month, I think these too are entitled to have a good time and stay properly when they are with their cohabiting parents, and that it is therefore reasonable that they should be deducted from living expenses. Why does the Council of State not see the same need?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04-lower.ana.ud98e152	We see absolutely that need. But when we've looked at concrete computational examples for some small children's families, we see that this turns out very unfortunate. Then we have been primarily concerned with ensuring the sound economy of the place where the child lives the most. In the case of regulatory changes and changes to the law, I understand the first question so that if there are very many regulatory changes at a time different from the time of the changes to the law, it may be inconclusive. But we're going to do it at the same time, during January 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04-lower.ana.ud98e160	No more words have been asked for a line. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 155]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04-lower.ana.ud98e178	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04-lower.ana.ud98e187	The majority of the Committee supported the establishment of the grassroots quota scheme in the context of the examination of the voluntary notification in the Stortinget in December 2007. We are now invited to make the necessary legal changes to enable the scheme to enter into force. The working party, SV and the centre party are now looking forward to the arrangement being put into effect once in the spring. Then it will be possible for those participating in the Norwegian Typing game to decide that parts of the effort will go directly to a local club, a club, an organisation or the like. 5 pst. the bet will be channelled directly for the player’s predetermined purpose. We think it's great that players can play directly to income for a particular layer of space. We think it will make the connection between Norwegian Tipping's moderate and sound game offering and the volunteering that is in stark contrast to the many gambling offers that are available from abroad via the web. It is important to emphasise that those organisations that did not have automatic income in 2002 and which will thus not initially receive a share of Norwegian Typing’s game surplus will be included in and could receive funds from the grass root. I'm surprised that the opposition is still opposed to the grass root fraction. The working party believes this is a scheme that will mobilise local involvement and actually lead to a good increase in support for voluntary organisations. We do not at all share the opposition's concern that this will be a bureaucratic and expensive system. This is easily solved by Norwegian Typing players who want to give a grass root fraction, selecting a device from the volunteer register as the recipient of their grass root fraction. The overview will be available at the tipping commissioner and on the Norwegian Tipping website. Norwegian Typing then ensures that the paid grass root fraction is reserved for payment to the selected grass root unit. The latter will go electronically and be a very simple operation. Nor do we share the opposition's concern that local teams and organisations now need to spend a lot of time and energy marketing themselves. Compared to all the cabaloteries and duvets that are held locally, this will be a very easy way to make money. The best marketing teams can do in the local direction is to continue the good work they do in their field, for example. the good job the handball club does for children and young people. This is the effort the local population wants and values, and now is given the opportunity to support through the grassroots share Just because the grassroots share will mobilise more resources for local teams and organisations, it is important that this scheme should be implemented as quickly as possible. The government parties – the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party – are therefore pleased that the law will be passed this evening.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04-lower.ana.ud98e206	The Progress Party is concerned about the voluntary sector if the Government believes that the grassroots ratio can compensate for the loss of other income. 5 pst. So you can choose to give to one of the organisations that have registered in the Voluntary Register. This means that those organisations that do not want to spend time and effort and not least the money to register in the Voluntary Register are excluded. To be registered in the Voluntary Register you first have to pay a registration fee, and in addition you have to pay an annual fee. So what's this going to look like, and if it goes into the spin, it's still going to look like. The previous newspaper read that Norwegian Typing would now pay the registration fee for those who wanted a grassroots fraction. It seems that the Progress Party has aspects that are not very good. Norsk Typing has nothing to do with the Voluntary Register, and that they are now going to fund the registration for those who want to be involved in the distribution of grassroots shares, we find alarming. If Norwegian Typing is to pay registration in the Voluntary Register, Norwegian Typing jam should pay registration for all teams and organisations. The fact that they're just going to pay for those who get grassroots share is a conspiracy of roles and interests we find very unfortunate, and I hope the Council of State can demand that Norsk Typing pay to get permission to give away grassroots parts. Or is it that the Council of State is so afraid not to succeed in terms of grassroots percentage, that you have to buy members? This might look like bait, and we don't like it. Norwegian Typing has too much power and monopoly already, so one place gets it enough. This seems more and more to take the form of a scandal, with Norwegian Typing as the main actor. So to the grass root part: we all want to increase the income for the voluntary sector, because we know that there's much more to society left for the crowns that are inserted. We're going to take care of this commitment, and we're going to make it as simple as possible for teams and organisations to do what they're going to do, whether it's care, activity or other things. Now it looks like you have to fight for every single penny with all the other teams and organizations in the community. They have to market themselves and make themselves known locally, because not everyone knows the local theatre team, the handball club, etc. In addition to that, they have to get those who play games in Norwegian Typings to choose exactly them. It goes without saying that this is going to be a clean fight around the heads. The party of progress has, as is well known, a completely different approach to this. We want to abolish the monopoly to Norsk Tipping, and we want to get more players who can contribute to the good ends. That is why we want to vote in favour of the Government's proposal and include this proposal by the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04-lower.ana.ud98e219	The representative Karin S. Woldseth has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04-lower.ana.ud98e222	The way you support volunteering also helps control volunteering, of course. This has been the subject of a deliberate policy in Norway. There has always been awareness of how to develop a support system in terms of what it produces in organisations. The best example of this has been the support system of voluntary organisations for children and young people. The voluntary organisations of children and young people have been premiered for, for example: democracy in its own organisation. It's been stimulated. More support has been given to organisations with well-developed membership democracy than to organisations run by adult organisations. You have also premiered other parts of the activity, and you have premiered size in terms of membership, and different things. So you've had a conscious attitude about how you want to be involved in developing the organizations. It's Left's main objection to the grass root, because when you create a support system that is about being good at marketing to the players in Norwegian Typing, you give a special focus. Then the organisations are told that it is about doing that everyone with a playing card in their pocket has to learn the number they have in the Voluntary Register. It will focus on the organisations. I can quote from the LNU hearing opinion: ‘LNU does not believe that state support policy, as in the grassroots proportion, should depend on the visibility and popularity of a voluntary action in the community, but should instead find other ways to support it. It is also unclear how much self-interest, marketing and advertising the voluntary organisations intend to use to compete in order to gain access to these games.’ That means that today we are creating a support system that aims to allow organisations to use their marketing time and organisational work not to fry waffles, but to tell people with playing cards which number to enter. Thus we create a support system that will foster that part of an organisation's activity – not membership democracy, not increasing the number of members, not the number of courses and seminars, not the number of football matches, but how many players have learned that number. That's Left's main objection to this system. The second is what emerges in the Freewill opinion of Norway, that this grassroots percentage is now being pushed through before all the pieces are in place with regard to the Register of Freedoms, and that it actually creates great ambiguity. The third objection that the Left has, which we are very pleased that all the opposition parties actually support, which has not really been discussed at all, concerns the use of this playing card and privacy considerations relating to the playing card. There are more and more things you can do with the use of the playing card that I feel this magnificence has not really discussed. Now we're adding a new feature to this playing card, without even having any privacy considerations discussed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04-lower.ana.ud98e240	The grassroots percentage is a scheme that will ensure important income for local teams and associations throughout Norway. It assumes that when you and I play in the Norwegian Typing game, we can choose a team or a team, and 5 pst. Of what we're playing for, we're going to go straight to that team. If I, for example, Play for 100 kroner at Norwegian Tipping, I can make sure that my team, Nardo Football Club, will get 5 kroner. In Trondheim, we can count on revenues of up to 16 million. kr to local teams and associations. I think that is far beyond what most municipalities can contribute through their contribution to volunteering. The grass root fraction has many advantages. Firstly, the important income ensures directly to the grassroots level. It ensures that local layers feel that the tipping agents also benefit them. It also makes it visible to most people that when they use Norwegian Typing's game, the money goes to positive action throughout Norway, and maybe we get a new interest in Norwegian Typing's game and get several players channeled onto the regulated gaming market, instead of non-regulated foreign gaming companies that don't give one dollar to Norwegian voluntarily. The herbicides are completely unbureaucratic. All you have to do is register your local team in the Voluntary Register, and then the money can flow in, and you don't have to search every year or report on the use of the money for what you got from the grassroots. I cannot therefore understand why some members of the Committee believe that the proposed scheme will be a burden on local organisations. I am pleased that in six months' time we will be reading the speeches from this debate again. Of course, organisations that don't want grassroots money are not forced to register as grassroots receivers, it's completely voluntary, although I think there's a long way between that sport team, that choir or the corps that don't want grassroots money. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party are critical of the grassroots regime because it will be additional work for Norwegian Typing. It's a touching concern. But Norsk Tipping is very aware that all new measures that strengthen Norsk Tipping as an attractive and responsible gaming provider necessarily lead to some additional work for the company, but it is an additional work they like to do in their efforts to ensure a responsible regulated gaming market. The members of the Committee of the Opposition refer to the fact that the grassroots scheme does not result in a real increase in the income of the voluntary sector. It depends on how much people play on Norwegian Typing's game. We believe that the grassroots percentage will help people to choose Norwegian Typing over other gaming companies, because they see that the money goes to volunteer, and because they themselves can influence what the money is going to do. Those who worry most about this are also those who are at least eager to secure the income of Norwegian Typing. We have had several cases and suggestions here in Stortinget that have led to a deterioration in the Norwegian Typing situation in favour of foreign gaming companies. If the income of Norwegian Typing goes down, the tipping money for all the profit recipients will go down. According to Norwegian Typing's calculations, the amount distributed via the key will not be significantly reduced by the grassroots ratio scheme. It is important to bear in mind that the money from games will not be less valuable if any of the money is channeled to grassroots joints, on the contrary. In addition, many local purposes that are not covered by the tap key will, for example: because they do not currently have automatic receipts and receive no compensation, benefit from this scheme. This means that the entire volunteer can participate in Norwegian Typing's profits, not only those included in the Norwegian Typing's distribution key today. I am pleased that we can now legislate the grass root fraction, that the red-green majority ensures the local layers in Norway good income from next year. I'm 100 pst. ensure that this is received with pleasure in volunteering and, of course, especially in the local teams across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04-lower.ana.ud98e257	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04-lower.ana.ud98e260	Those who qualify for grassroots percentage must be registered in the Voluntary Register, so it is not entirely voluntary to appear in the Voluntary Register then. But as I said in the post, I have read in the paper that Norsk Typing will pay the registration fee for those who qualify for grassroots percentage. I would like to ask the Council of State: does it agree that Norwegian Typing will pay the registration fee for those who qualify for grassroots share? Does the Council of State not see that this may seem very unfair to those who may not qualify for the grass root fraction?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04-lower.ana.ud98e267	After all, we have processed the Voluntary Register several times in this room. The cancellation itself has taken the view that it should be a registration fee in order to become part of the Voluntary Register. It had also been added by the government, but then we and Norsk Typing found out that here, too, the Voluntary Register could also be used as a grassroots register, so we didn't have to create two systems. When we found it out, Norsk Typing said he was willing to pay the registration fee for all those who qualify for grassroots share – not those who say they should have, they can still say that they do not want grassroots share, but if they qualify for it, Norwegian Typing will take the bill. That's 9 million. kr that the voluntary is not paying. I just can't see anything negative about it. The vast majority of volunteers have the opportunity to get grassroots percentages. Those who are excluded are purely economic organisations, such as housing laws, etc. They have to pay 200 kroner for registration in the Voluntary Register, and I am absolutely convinced that they will be able to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04-lower.ana.ud98e276	No more words have been asked for a line. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 157]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04-lower.ana.ud98e286	The odelsting shall then vote in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04-lower.ana.ud98e293	During the debate Karin S. Woldseth has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04-lower.ana.ud98e443	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04-lower.ana.ud98e454	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04-lower.ana.ud98e461	During the debate Karin S. Woldseth has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04-lower.ana.ud98e508	The party of progress, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04-lower.ana.ud98e521	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all. The voting boards showed that there were 35 votes in favour and 29 votes against the title of the law and the law as a whole. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 21-52.43]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04-lower.ana.ud98e530	There may be someone who has not been put to the vote and who feels that they need to vote again? The President hears that more people in the hall answer yes. It was quite unison. The President suspects that someone will take the time to get a cab home. [[Laughter]] Then the title of the laws and laws will be added at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04-lower.ana.ud98e545	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04-lower.ana.ud98e557	There is no record available. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask to speak in accordance with Rule 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
