ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-lower.ana.ud693e34	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 65 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President proposes that those who have to sign up for the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-lower.ana.ud693e45	The decisions made by Odelstinget today mean that we are approaching the end of a 30-year effort to put in place a new and more modern penal code. The initiative was taken in the criminal notice issued by the then Justice Minister Inger Louise Valle in 1978. The general part of the new criminal law was adopted by the Stortinget in 2005, which is the first of two partialproposals on the specific part of the criminal law. The penal code reflects social development in many ways. We see this most clearly through the two new chapters of the new penal code adopted today by Odelstinget, on genocide and terrorism. Where the penal code of 1902 was marked by its age, with cold wars and traditional military threats, the threat has changed and is more linked to the danger of terror and brutal abuse against the civilian population from various groupings. After the persecution of Jews during World War II, the UN adopted a genocide convention in which genocide is declared a crime under international law, whether committed in peacetime or in wartime. Norway ratified it in 1949 and has since joined a number of treaties and conventions covering genocide. These international obligations also require the renewal of the criminal law. There are therefore very important decisions to be taken today. The new criminal law provisions protect fundamental values, such as protection against crimes against humanity, protection of Norway as a free and independent nation and protection against acts of terrorism. That is why I am also pleased that the Committee so much ends up with the government bill. On some points there is a divergent view, but overall there is a consensus on the new criminal law provisions and that Norway is now going to put in place rules that meet our international obligations in important areas. Hanna Arendt warned after the holocaust that if genocide is a current possibility in the future, no people on earth will know for sure their continued existence without the help and protection of an international law. Chapter 16 on war crimes, genocides and crimes against humanity builds on the protection of fundamental human values, across cultures, borders, religion or ethnicity. The 20th century has witnessed the greatest genocide in history. I have mentioned the persecution of Jews. In Cambodia, 2-3 million people were killed by the Khmer Rouge regime. The fines were usually young down to the age of 11-12 years. In Rwanda, about one million Tutsi and moderate Hutu were killed - most in 100 days in 1994. The massacre of 8 000 boys and men in Srebrenica during the war in Bosnia in 1995 is the first legally recognized genocide on European soil since World War II. These are so serious crimes that the world community has made it a common task to ensure that perpetrators are persecuted if not the individual state itself. The direct reason for the new criminal provisions we are about to adopt today is the ratification by Norway of the Treaty of Rome, which led to the establishment of the International Criminal Court. The statutes state that, in principle, the States themselves are to prosecute these serious crimes. Only where the State in question cannot or will not be able to do so shall the International Criminal Court examine the case. The Committee is therefore aware that Norwegian criminal law should allow Norwegian courts to penalise the same crimes as the International Criminal Court can condemn. In this way, we prevent Norway from becoming a haven for war crimes, genocides and crimes against humanity. The severity of these crimes is not least reflected by the fact that the most serious of them are punishable by imprisonment for up to 30 years. The Committee also supports the application of the new provisions to actions already carried out, with the limitations and requirements for conditions which must be met and which have been taken into account in the Government's position on the Stortinge. The Committee therefore considers that the wording of the laws is not contrary to the Constitutional Act § 97. The proposal for retroactive effect is also widely supported by the hearing bodies. Both the Red Cross and the Helsinki Committee were among those who thought that the new criminal provisions should have retroactive effect, and I am pleased that the Government has followed this up. The majority of the committee also supports the Government that the provisions of § 91 and § 96 are designed so that acts considered genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes are not outdated if they have a penalty framework of 15 years or more. Finally, we agree that it is urgent to put these provisions in place as soon as possible and that they should therefore enter into force immediately. In the book "A Better Day Tomorrow", former infantry soldier Ishmael Beah describes life as a child soldier in Sierra Leone. 300,000 child soldiers are now actively involved in more than 50 conflicts worldwide. Ishmael describes how he and some friends are going home from a talent contest when he finds his village destroyed by insurgents and the family driven away. 12 years old he starts to drift around the country, 13 years old he's taken up in the army. Child soldiers have constantly been drenched with various drugs. Food and supplies are provided by attacking villages and slaughtering civilians with an unusual brutality. As Ishmael himself writes: "I shot them in the feet and saw them suffer a whole day before I finally shot them in the head so they would stop crying. Before I shot each one, I looked at him and saw how his eyes gave up hope and stamina before I withdrew. The sad eyes irritated me. ‘... But unlike too many other child soldiers, Ishmael's life takes a new turn: as a fifteen-year-old, he is picked up by UNICEF, who sends him to rehabilitation. This is how we become acquainted with a reality that is brutal and unreal to us, but which underlines the importance of Norway's leading the fight against the use of child soldiers. According to the Rome Statutes and the practice of international law, today there is a 15-year-old age limit for recruiting and using child soldiers. However, Norway has indicated that the limit should be 18 years old. Today, when we make it a war crime to recruit and use children under 18 for armed forces, Norway will be among the very first countries in the world to adopt such an age limit. With this in mind, Norway will further contribute to the development of international law in this area. When twin towers fell in New York on 11 September 2001, it marked the beginning of what has later been called the “war on terror. ” My visit to the UN earlier this fall made it clear to what extent this marks the international agenda, and Norway has taken on a number of international commitments. The new chapter of the Penal Code contains stricter and more specialised criminal provisions against terrorism than at present. Like the increasing international focus on the new threat picture, legal developments in Norway have also moved towards a more extended methodology, more extensive criminalisation and more stringent penalties. At the same time, it is important that this development of justice does not restrict the rights it intends to protect - such as freedom of expression. That is why I am pleased that the Minister of Justice is signaling that he will now reduce the Methodology Committee to verify the use of methods and to ensure that legal certainty is adequately safeguarded by today's legislation. At present, Norwegian criminal law does not contain general provisions on the conditions to be taken into account when measuring penalties. The Committee wishes to legislate on aggravating and mitigating situation in criminal investigations, making criminal law more informative and accessible. I'm glad that a majority of the committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, SV and Right, raises hate crime as an aggravating circumstance. Hat crime is characterised by the fact that a criminal offence is not motivated by any situational, but, on the other hand, attacks the human right to be treated equally, regardless of belief, appearance, origin or sexual preferences. Violence creates fear and not least limitations in the unfolding of life, not only in those who are affected, but in all those who belong to the same group. It is these criminal acts that the majority of the committee here clearly states that it must be strictly opposed. History is full of examples of how serious outcomes events that originate from hate crime can get. The Jewish persecution, Ku Klux Klan's activity or ethnic cleansing are some examples of genocide and war crimes that were originally motivated by hatred. That is why I strongly disagree with the Advancement Party when they state in their special remark that hate motives should not be aggravating. Moreover, the claim of the Progress Party that most democratic legal states consider such matters irrelevant is not correct. On the contrary, there are several instruments of international law that oblige countries to provide protection to vulnerable minorities, and the motivation for hatred is considered to be criminal in most countries in the Western world, including the United States and Canada. I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this important matter. The Committee has worked thoroughly and not least quickly to ensure that the provisions on genocide can enter into force as soon as possible. More and more of the conflicts in the world are being fought between rebel groups. Violence and abuse against women and children are being put into a system and increasingly used as a weapon. Such abuse is not just a matter for each country. As a small country, we ourselves need a strong international legal order - but perhaps most importantly: we have a significant responsibility to use our competences and resources to strengthen the legal security of civilians in conflict zones and to strengthen the position of international law in the world community. The matter we are dealing with today needs to be seen as a small but equally important part of this big picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-lower.ana.ud693e105	There is no doubt that the proposition that Odelstinget is about to deal with today is very important. It is an important continuation of part of the work that Stortinget has done in the past, and that, among other things. the previous Judicial Committee was in proportion to what happened in the case of terrorism and terrorist proceedings since 11 September 2001. It is also a follow-up to what we did when we dealt with the general part of the Penal Code in spring 2005. Of course, one of the most important things is that Norway also has legislation and legislation that is very similar to that of some other countries, so as to avoid Norway appearing in some contexts as a haven for a type of crime that is perhaps the worst. In this way, we will give tribute to the Council of State for the work he has done in getting this out. At the same time, it must be allowed to say that it is not exactly a surprise that Norway has not had legal housing that has covered this – it is a topic that has been discussed more than once. I think it is good that we finally get it in place. What remains, of course, is to get it sanctioned and passed. A country without a rule of law against genocide and terrorism specifically is a country lacking anything. Although we have other paragraphs that can be used, it's absolutely necessary that we get it in place because of the totality. At the same time, it is a bit surprising to see that the government has chosen a model where there is a division into common terror and gross terror with different criminal frameworks. I record that the government has had a reason for that, but I think that a concept such as ‘general terror’ is a bit strange to listen to and a little suspicious to read about. If you generalise the term "terrorism", some of us think it's a little mysterious. The Progress Party has a different approach to this. We want terror to be punished consistently within the same paragraph, and we don't want to have the two-part division that the Government has put up with. Of course, I will take that up as a proposal at the end. Another point that I also think is interesting in this case is that from the government parties it has been clarified that when someone has now opened up a 30-year penalty framework, it should not be seen as a general increase in the penalty level. It is a clear political message and a clear political signal. When you're so clear that it's not the way to go, it's interesting to look at what other fields you might need to take down the penalty framework to avoid an increase. I'm assuming that either the Council of State or others come into this, because I'm assuming that it might be of some interest. Something else I also think is essential in this context, and as you see too little, is the fact that there are war criminals in Norway today that are a dilemma for us. Some of them have even acquired a Norwegian citizenship on the wrong premises. It has been possible to punish them within the penalties we have had. Now we're going to make a change, but it's not going to per. definition has retroactive effect, which allows us to punish them in another way. For the Progress Party, it is important to take into account and point out the fact that Norway must not and should not be a haven for people who have committed war crimes. It's probably one of the worst things you can do to your own countrymen, even though it may be an ethnic difference. The Progress Party does not want people to become Norwegian citizens on completely wrong premises, and especially if they have a portfolio of genocides or other types of war crimes with them. I hope that the Council of State also sees here, in contrast to the premise for citizenship, and that one looks at the possibility of withdrawing them where they are given to those degrees under the wrong conditions. I think it will help to show that Norway is not a sanctuary. I believe the very best way to settle with those who have committed such acts is that the settlement takes place in the country where they came from, and where the demise was committed. Norway may well punish people from other parts of the world, but I have trouble believing in full that the affected people will find it equally correct that it happens in a completely different country than in the country that was actually affected by the upheavals. So I think we should stretch far in order for that to happen. Then the case rapporteur argued that there was a regime in the matter of limitation, but the case-rapporteur also pointed out that it has a penalty limit in itself. That's what the Progress Party thinks is wrong. We believe that in the case of as serious crimes as genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes and terror, such crimes are not to be perpetrated. It's kind of going to be giving an acceptance again to the bestials. Well, it can't be like that -- after all, after all, and our knowledge -- that if things go so far and so far, we're going to close the forgetbook again and say it happened, but it's been so long since we can't take it up again. We think that's bad, and that's a bad signal. It is also tempting to ask: What is the cause of such serious and serious crime? Is it because the government parties don't think it's bad enough? There must be a reason, however, for choosing a model that makes it possible to have a legacy here. But for our part, this is too serious for that to happen. We also believe that there is another element here: Things about war crimes -- and genocide, for that matter -- are very difficult to investigate. It should also have been learned and heard during this process when we visited the International Criminal Court in the Netherlands, where it was told how difficult it is - not least the fact that it is always the masters who write history and who define the truth afterwards. In that way, this is going to take time. But the worst thing we can do is we can stroke it by looking at the calendar and saying that it's been so long now that we don't do anything about it. Another theme that is important for the Progress Party is the change that the Government has made in the area of violence against public officials. In fact, we believe that it is important to go the opposite way to what the government is doing, to focus on the increased need for protection, not least in the light of the fact that we have a discussion about recruitment to the police profession. We believe that, through legislation, we show how we take care of them - what protection they actually have. That's how we also show how we appreciate them. We think it might have an impact on recruitment. But again, the government chooses to go a completely different way from what the Progress Party does. The rapporteur then commented on the attitude of the Progress Party towards hate crime. I respect and understand the importance of crimes because of ethnicity, sexual orientation, etc., but nevertheless our approach has been that we want to see them from the victim's side. What you're doing now is you're scaling that kind of crime based on what it's justifying. Of course, you can do that, but for our part, it's probably so important that you actually justify it based on how the victim has experienced this. So here there's a distinction between the policy that the majority is running and what the Progress Party is going to do, precisely because we believe that the law should initially be blind in terms of how the crime has been committed. So to the proposition itself, there's a couple of things here that I think are a little bit strange and surprising, that the Council of State might come up with. The proposition shows, among other things: to some paragraphs that Stortinget does not know about. I think that's a little strange. Under the hood. 18 - it is of course processed by Odelstinget today, but is nevertheless not implemented - it is shown, for example. to Section 275 [[drap]] Then I have registered that the SV's representative in the Judicial Committee has presented a challenge, that some of the provisions should be put in place faster than it seems. This is something on which the Progress Party fully supports. At the end of the day, I would like to address the proposals that have been made by the Progress Party. If they were to vote against the assumption in a little while, we will subsidiaryly support the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-lower.ana.ud693e133	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-lower.ana.ud693e136	Today, when Odelstinget adopts new provisions of the penal code, it means that Norway will no longer be a haven for war criminals. That we have not previously had a criminal order against genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes may have led to cases where persons who have committed such crimes have deliberately applied to Norway. In addition, normal limitation periods for killing have been in force, so that theoretically, criminal prosecution of possible atrocities has been avoided in the past. With this law, we are giving a very important signal - here I am going to join in - to what the case rapporteur and the speaker from the Progress Party have said. I want to give all kinds of honor to both the one and the other who have contributed here, to the government placing the ball in the goal of this law, and to the adoption of it today. However, in its letter of consultation, the Ministry considered that it was not appropriate to make the provision applicable to acts carried out before the date of entry into force. But we have recorded that the Government has changed its view and has chosen to give the provisions retroactive effect. Right joins it and believes that there are good arguments for it. But it has come to our attention that there are some organisations that believe that they have not been heard. Then it might have been an advantage if they had to a greater extent been heard during this process. They weren't supposed to bring along the hearing we had in the Justice Committee. In that case - although the majority and we also support this proposal - it might well be that those views should also have come to the fore. Another important element that is now covered by the criminal law is the law-enforcement of aggravating and mitigating circumstances in criminal investigations. That it will now be stated in the law that a criminal act motivated by prejudice and hatred is a criminally sharp moment, is important for very many people who may have felt on the body what it means to have a different color of skin, a different sexual orientation or a different country of origin from Norway. At the same time, the Right believes that the bill is too narrowly designed in relation to the Storting's consideration of proposals for more general and general legislation in the field of discrimination, regardless of the basis. That is why we are promoting the proposal in the vote to ensure that hate crime is also defined on the basis of ‘other status’, that it is given the same legal protection as other hate crime. Both the EMK and the UN Convention have just the term ‘other status’ in all its anti-discrimination provisions. Thus, 50 years of the case law of the Court of Human Rights has shown that ‘other status’ does not imply any dilution of the protection — on the contrary. ‘Other status’, on the other hand, has ensured the protection of discrimination for a number of groups with a high need for it. While dealing with proposals for new general criminal law, there was a broad consensus that lifting criminal sanctions, increasing the use of maximum or increased use of minimum penalties is not without a doubt the most effective means of combating crime and also not always the most appropriate means of increasing the level of penalties for criminal offences. In this way, like the Government, the Right believes that the codification of criminal aggravating conditions in the law is a positive innovation and is likely to be a more effective instrument than the increased use of minimum penalties. But on behalf of the Right, I would like to inform you that we will follow developments closely and consider possible increased use of the minimum penalty later if the courts do not follow up the signals we give with this codification. It is also a problem that a few criminals account for a large proportion of certain types of crime. When some repeaters are released from settlement, the proportion of certain types of crime increases dramatically in the area where these persons belong. So we haven't changed our position on the principle of a reduction in the use of minimum penalties, but we believe that the need to reduce repeat crime is one of the reasons for the use of minimum penalties. It is a serious problem that a small number of criminals are behind a large proportion of crime. In the right, it would be useful to prevent future crimes if the parties involved knew that a real consequence would be to commit new crimes. We look forward to the treatment of the other culprits in the special section of the penal code. These issues will certainly be the subject of thorough discussions in Stortinget. Otherwise, we are also interested to know if it is such that the government party SV has had close contact with its government colleagues during the course of the day about the date of entry into force of a certain type of membership – so to speak – that none of us are particularly interested in, and I hope that the Council of State can give a confirmatory answer that he will follow up that request from the SV judicial spokesman. When it comes to enforcing this law, the Right Council of State's opinions in the NRK -- well, it was -- today about the need to strengthen Kripos. Eight new posts could lead to a double or more cases produced. That's good. I hope that we can work together in the future so that Kripos actually get even more opportunity to address this type of serious crime, and not least that this effort at Kripos is now being continued in relation to other parts of Kripos’s business, for example. in the case of some other types of offence there has also been a discussion of the last few weeks. In the debate we now have on privacy, which has begun to become quite violent in Norway, it is positive that it is a failure to promote new methods now, but that we take the time to review those we already have, look at their impact, and assess them against a number of important privacy considerations. I think it's important that we take the time to do it now, that we don't run too fast. With regard to the parties to the progress on terror and gross terrorism, it is well known in criminal law that violence is not violence; there are various degrees of violence. Corresponding principles should be used to the extent that we apply to other types of crime, in order to obtain a scale that we should be able to use. I use the opportunity to address our proposals, and end by giving praise to the Government, which with this gets a case through with broad support in the Stortinget. This will help us to put a stop to Norway being a haven for terrorists and a haven for war criminals who have used Norway as a haven for the past few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-lower.ana.ud693e162	The representative André Oktay Dahl has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-lower.ana.ud693e165	It's been over 100 years since the penal code was passed. Of course, social conditions have changed considerably during this period. Terrorism has, among other things: have become a central part of the threat to Norway. Terrorist acts are therefore treated as a separate chapter in new criminal law, where, among other things, they: will show that serious acts of terrorism - i.e. exceptional cases - now punishable by imprisonment for up to 30 years. It is important to stress that these actions are to be combated by the means of the rule of law, based on human rights and fundamental guarantees of legal certainty. It is good that there are now aggravating circumstances in criminal acts motivated by hatred and prejudice, so-called hate crime. All humans shall have the right to be treated equally, regardless of their origin, belief, sexual preferences or appearance. The protection is now extended to disabled persons. A 2004 Scottish survey showed that 47 pst. of all disabled people had experienced hate crime, and 74 pst. Of these, serious cases reported, of which about one-third were physical attacks. There is no reason to believe that the situation has changed in Norway. The user organisations of disabled people have been required to integrate into the penal code § 135a and 349a for several years. It's a pleasure that we can now meet this requirement. It introduces its own penalties into the penal code with provisions on genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity. The Rome Statute of 17 July 1998 is based on the fact that it is the countries themselves which are to prosecute this type of serious crime. This is why, at home, we have to allow Norwegian courts to punish for the same crimes as the International Criminal Court can. In this way, we shall avoid Norway becoming a haven for war criminals. Despite the fact that the penal code of 1902 already covers acts of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes, it has been a weakness that these crimes have not constituted their own crime categories. But this is now being followed up by adapting the criminal law to international obligations and treaties. It's also new that the crimes we're talking about here should be punishable by prison for up to 30 years. It will be a war crime to recruit and use children in armed forces. The Rome Statutes and the practice of international law have an age limit of 15 years. SV, and the Government, are entering the 18-year-old age limit. This has its background in the ratification by Norway of the optional Protocol on Children in Armed Conflict by the Children’s Convention. The 18-year-old age limit gives an important signal that Norway considers the recruitment of children for acts of war to be a serious violation of humanitarian principles. It is an objective that Norway contributes to the development of international law, towards a higher age limit. Finally, it is important to remember that over the last 40 years, prison sentences have doubled by six, 70 pst. among prisoners have drug problems, and one in two prisoners return to acquittal after a five-year period. We therefore need to find better ways of rehabilitating and alternatives to unconditional imprisonment. In short, we need a return plan and a return guarantee that works. I look forward to the news of the crime scene being presented soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-lower.ana.ud693e178	The size of the population dealt with the general part of the new penal code, the one that replaced it from 1902, in 2005, and it was adopted by a solid and broad majority. The left notes that what was pulled up as the main guidelines is heavy inside and is actually based on what comes as the first part of the chapters here today. Left's happy. At the time, we saw that it was not in itself a goal to use the strictest possible punishment, but to see the punishment in relation to the situation we were going to avert, do something about it. What you did at the time, just for a moment to have said that, was you went in for a lot of criminals to make up for themselves by milder versions of punishment, like social punishment and other ways of punishing, while you would intensify repeat crime by violence, winning crimes and sexual crimes. That's what you're going to get back to. In 2002, and 2003 and related to organised crime in 2003. These provisions have now been passed on. In 2005, there was a broad consensus in the Storting that the general maximum penalty should not be increased, with some exceptions. The exceptions were war crimes, genocides and crimes against humanity. This is currently the case in the sentencing agencies, and it is right to mark it that way. At the same time, you were open to assess terror, and the left shares the sort that the government and the majority have done between what can be called gross terror and other forms of terror. The left also agrees that, in general, penalties should not be increased. However, in 2005, we were open to, for example: in the case of killings under given conditions, it is actually possible to have 21 years of age. One simply had to have a court order if one were to release earlier, so that it was no longer a matter that was only to be linked to the criminal enforcement law and the criminal law. We'll have a chance to get back to that question. Then there are some strange statements that have come from the pulpit. It was said that Norway has been a haven for terrorists. That's fundamentally wrong. We've had the sentinels all along. There were even some who thought that Norway went ‘bananas’ in the treatment of the prison sentences. I find only dry and calm that the sentencing we have had is a line in which, in the sense that the Stortinge maintains and maintains what we did then. I think it's right, as the national lawyer said in the summer of 2006 - and it's true for everyone in this room - that a lot of pressure a few years ago has been exerted in such a way that in retrospect you could admit it. There are many other countries that have really taken off in ways that we never did in Norway. For example, crime was committed. Preparatory actions in fleng - it has never happened in our country - and it is linked to the establishment of a federation, which is the main provision being made here today. Police methods were also introduced, and not to mention that in a number of countries rules on how long people could be kept without seeing a judge were lifted. It's never been the debate in Norway, we haven't been near it. We haven't been close to the debate you had, for example. in the case of strict legislation in the settlement after World War II, where there was no point in doing so in Norway. We didn't. That's why it's good that Stortinget can now confirm the main lines of the things that have been mentioned earlier. In the case of war crimes, genocides and crimes against humanity, it is right that we have not had the specific penalties. But it is not right that war criminals have had a retreat in Norway. It keeps committing one killing, one can be judged to the strictest punishment of the law by committing one killing. What's new now is that you really hit and say the penalty is 30 years. Being able to prosecute this in the form of having state lawyers, as I understand the government has now strengthened, we have the opportunity. Taking this responsibility has been there. And if someone takes it with them in this room -- one was criticized in Norway earlier because it was almost perceived as such, for example. War criminals from former Yugoslavia had such mild atonements in Norwegian prisons that they should actually be put in a basement many meters below the ground somewhere in the Balkans. However, criminal proceedings in Norway take place under the conditions we have, and under the rules we have in relation to international courts. We stand for that, and it is very good that it has been presented. As regards the individual proposals submitted, the Left does not share the logic set out by Mr Ellingsen on behalf of the Party for Progress. It's an honest and straightforward political dividing line that's not new, but it's just good to say it this way. On the other hand, the Left has considerable sympathy for and will vote in favour of proposal No. 1, stated that the Advance Party and the Right, because when we had a Supreme Court judgment where it would not seem to be aggravating that a group rape had almost been committed, I must admit that it at least violated my sense of justice. I understand what conditions lie behind proposal No. 1, and the Left will support it, also in relation to what is being said about compensation measurement. As regards proposal No: 6, I will challenge the Right to set out the clear purpose of that. I have to admit that I haven't understood it, so it's for observation until I have a more detailed justification. The left vote for the vote by the majority and for proposal No. 1 from the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-lower.ana.ud693e197	First of all, I would like to commend the case rapporteur for a thought-provoking post and a driving good argument in relation to the proposition we are dealing with in Odelstinget today. This is a proposition that is part of a great deal of work on a whole new penal code. I also want to praise all those employees who have worked so hard over the years and to this day, in fact for a long time, politically and in the Ministry of Justice, do and have done a great job with such a complicated, yet so important part of our legislation. Today, the first proposition on the special part of the new penal code is addressed, while the last part is planned to be promoted during the year. The sitting magnification will then have completed a work that has been in progress for nearly 30 years. Ot. pp. No 8 for 2007-2008 contains three chapters dealing with the major issues of criminal law. Two of them, chapters 16 and 18, have no parallel in the penal code of 1902. These are not ‘volume regulations’ that give rise to many cases, fortunately, but provisions that protect fundamental values for all of us: protection of humanity across borders and cultures, protection of Norway as a free and maritime nation, and protection against acts of terrorism. I am therefore pleased that the Committee has so far managed to concentrate on the legislative proposal and on the principles underlying this type of legislation. Chapter 16 on war crimes, genocides and crimes against humanity holds back the most fundamental humane values across borders and cultures. The rapporteur gave a good picture of the need. Such crimes are so serious that the world community has made it a common task to ensure that they are persecuted, if the individual state does not. Therefore, it was an easy choice for the Government to decide that this chapter should come first in the special section of the new penal code. The specific gravity is also underlined by the fact that offences should be punishable by imprisonment for up to 30 years. The proposal ensures that Norway fully implements our obligations under international law. This is very important because the Rome Statutes on the International Criminal Court, which was also the subject of the case-rapporteur, are based on the fact that each country has a primary responsibility to pursue such crimes. If it is not appropriate to pursue such crimes on Norwegian soil, it may be appropriate to prosecute persons associated with Norway. So the suggestion makes that we can sweep for our own door. In addition, our ability to assist international tribunals, as necessary, in carrying out criminal proceedings in Norway to relieve them is ensured. The proposal to give the rules a certain retroactive effect makes it possible to apply them to criminal offences that have already been committed, but then within the limits of the Constitution § 97 withdraws. I want to say that we've gone as far as we think we can go in relation to just such a limit. The representative, Octay Dahl, referred to the question of consultation when dealing with some of these questions, including: on limitation. We're going to get back to that. Chapter 17 protects Norway as a maritime and free nation. The proposal has been adapted to the new threat picture. Greater emphasis has been placed on protection against illegal intelligence activities and more societal interests than before are protected. In particular, I would like to highlight the prohibition of illegal intelligence against secret information about Norwegian natural resources such as oil, gas and fish. However, the main essence of the chapter is the same as in the penal code of 1902. When future historians define the period that replaced the cold war, it would not be surprising to start on 11 September 2001 and talk about the ‘fight against terrorism’. International attention on this topic has been formidable and resulted in extensive international obligations. The proposal for Chapter 18 on penalties for acts of terrorism and terrorist acts implements these obligations in Norwegian law and establishes stricter and more detailed regulation than at present. There is reason to stress, as the representative of Dørum also pointed out, that we are adhering to the main principles. It is for the sake of the rule of law that we are going to fight back terrorism. It's for the sake of the rule of law that we're going to deal with that kind of crime, because that's what it is. This also means that, in relation to this type of provision, there is also a need to bring with it the shades of perception of the offence. It is not the case with regard to this phenomenon that one crime, as well as one crime, is equal to all others. There's nuances in this. It is also up to the court to judge this type of crime that we must have the grading that the Government has chosen to propose to the Stortinget. That is why I strongly disagree with the considerations that the Progress Party draws up in relation to this. It's going into a path where we treat this differently from what we have tradition for in a legal state. It is important that we draw up limits on what is punishable, in addition to the more general criminal law provisions on participation and trials. This applies, inter alia, to: proposals for penalties for training, recruitment and public calls for acts of terrorism. Legal developments since 11 September 2001 have gone in one direction, namely against stricter penalties, more extensive criminalisation and increased access to secret use of interventional police methods. The heightened threat picture has caused this development and, together with international obligations, can justify it. At the same time, we need to be careful to go so far that, in our quest to combat acts of terrorism, we in many ways specify the values we are actually concerned with protecting, such as. our personal freedom. I fully support the views of the representative Octay Dahl on privacy in this way. The time has come to see if we have struck the balance point well enough here. I will therefore first of all appoint a separate sample to examine whether the current methodological rules are as effective as the legislators provided for at the time of their adoption, and whether legal certainty and privacy considerations are adequately respected. The other two chapters of the proposal contain more regular penalties, which I do not come to any closer. The last chapter, the protection of public tranquillity, order and security, brings up the limits of what is so unacceptable in public space that it should be punishable. I would particularly like to stress that the legislative proposal on this point, together with the provision on aggravating circumstances, facilitates a reinforced fight against hate-motivated crime. The provisions on penalties for hateful statements and discrimination have been proposed to extend their scope to protect disabled persons. Hat crime is characterised by the fact that a criminal offence is not motivated by any situational or contrasting relationship with the actual offended, but instead by a general hatred against anyone who has a certain conviction, appearance, origin or sexual preference. This is a particularly dangerous crime, which increases the level of impunity. I am very surprised at the arguments put forward by the Progress Party in this way, when we do not follow a broad majority in this respect. I've met young homosexuals who have had a hard time standing out in society, and who are just paying the price for not having the criminal protection that we're going to have in relation to the violence and crime that should be motivated by the fact that others have a different sexual orientation. The nature of the additional load does not constitute it, among other things. to young people? If it didn't require us to mark punitiveness, then there are many less good arguments for having the others. The reason for this is that hate crime does not hit a single person, but all that belong to the same group. It creates an extra fear for the individual and also for everyone in the same situation, creates contradictions in society and increases the chance of retaliation and escalation of violence. The Rodney King case in the United States, followed by riots in Los Angeles, is a particularly well-known example of that. History gives many examples that motivation to harm members of a particular ethnic or religious group has had particularly damaging consequences. It is sufficient to mention, as was done by the Advocate-General, the persecution of Jews during World War II, the activity of Ku Klux Klan and the ethnic cleansing in Bosnia. It is symptomatic that the most serious crimes we face - genocide, war crimes, crimes against humanity and acts of terrorism - are often motivated by hatred. Therefore, as I said, I strongly disagree with the Progress Party that this relationship should be irrelevant for a criminal measure. In addition to the specific part of the law, the proposal now under consideration includes the legalisation of aggravating and mitigating circumstances in criminal investigations. The main purpose of this part of the proposal is to codify the law in force, so that legal practitioners - and especially toy users - can read out of the law what to pay attention to when the penalty is to be measured within the broad limits laid down by the law. Otherwise, I would just like to point out to the representative Ellingsen, who refers to the reference provision, § 275, that this is the new penal code we are talking about. That's the killing determination, and it also says in parentheses on page 357 of the proposition that it's the killing determination, and not other, old regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-lower.ana.ud693e239	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-lower.ana.ud693e243	It would have been tempting to say that I was not aware that the existing section 275 had been lifted, but that is okay enough. My question to the Council of State is as follows: He has now highlighted the importance of the new chapters 16 and 18. At the same time, there has been a debate here on recruitment for terrorist activities in Norway. How quickly can the Council of State tell Odelstinget that you can have these two legal chapters in place, so that you can just prevent, for example, from doing so. recruitment to the terrorist community in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-lower.ana.ud693e250	As we are well known, we are working on ensuring that all regulations come into force as quickly as possible, in the sense that we want to complete the specific part of the penal code as quickly as possible. I think we should show some restraint in taking out parts and asking for them to enter into force quickly, because there may be a need for all areas of criminal law, and we need capacity to investigate these provisions. With regard to the issues raised by several, especially regarding recruitment, we have said from the government that we want to assess it during the spring to get back to Stortinget with that question in an appropriate form when we want to enter into force. As has also been said publicly, we will not rule out the possibility of a faster entry into force of these provisions than for the other provisions, which must wait for the general entry into force.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-lower.ana.ud693e257	A follow-up to the question of the Progress Party: What is the fundamental difference between the representative of Ellingen and the undersigned in relation to the entry into force, and the second, which comes into force much earlier? There is a reasonably current situation. The PST has made its views known. What's the reason why the government can't follow up my law school colleague from SV, Akhtar Chaudhry, here in the hall today and signal that one will present this during the year?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-lower.ana.ud693e262	I said in my previous reply that we are now working on the very question of faster entry into force of what, among other things. The representative Akhtar Chaudhry has taken up the matter. We're looking at a suitable form of it. If necessary, it will be taken out of the new penal code and created as part of the old one. This is a question that has been discussed in the media a few days ago, and I have said that it is relevant for us to do this. However, I have to ask for all possible understanding that in such important areas we do not adopt and implement legal paragraphs like this overnight, but I have promised that we will come back and provide Odelsting with the necessary information about it. We're working on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-lower.ana.ud693e267	I can understand that the Storting is impatient after adopting regulations, but I would like the Council of State to confirm that we are not in a legal room - we have criminal provisions today, we have, for example. federal and other criminal provisions - so that no one after this debate will have to be left with us in a legal room. I understand why, as legislator, we want to have the most precise regulations, but I would just like to take advantage of the opportunity, so that we in this country do not create ideas other than what is necessary, to ask the Council of State to clarify, as far as he thinks it is right, that we are not in a legal room today, that we actually have regulations that we have had for a long time and provided for in other historical circumstances, which make Norway no refuge for terrorism.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-lower.ana.ud693e272	Yes, I can confirm that. We have prohibitions and participation provisions, such as: can meet any of that needs. I believe that one should be careful to extract parts of a large legal complex and say that it is urgent with this, and with it giving the signal that we should actually have a legal room where we do not have any legal room. There is one reason why the government when both the media rings and others turn around, because a current issue arises in a public debate, believes that one should be careful to throw around immediately. It is true, as the representative says, that we have legal rules today that also ensure this, and a debate about the legislation we actually have can help to improve the image, but also to pass on the outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-lower.ana.ud693e277	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-lower.ana.ud693e282	As the case-speaker said, criminal law reflects very many ways of social development, and this is made clear by the fact that we are now adopting two completely new chapters in criminal law, namely genocide and terrorism. The criminal law we have today is marked by the age of the past with cold wars and traditional military threats. The direct reason for the new criminal acts we are about to adopt today is, as many have pointed out, the ratification of the Treaty of Rome by Norway and the establishment of the International Criminal Court. Now the Norwegian penal code is in line with our international obligations. Norway cannot appear as a refuge for people guilty of various war crimes, genocides and crimes against humanity. The new criminal law will hold destinations on which matters are to be emphasised in terms of the measurement of penalties, both in aggravating and mitigating terms. In a sharper way, I want to bring out hate-motivated crime. Hate-motivated crime creates fear, not only of the person who becomes the frame, but also of whole peoples who get a delineation in their way of life because of overexpression, race, appearance, origin or sexual preference. In addition, this creates contradictions in society and increases the likelihood of retribution and escalation of violence. Neither should we fall into traps and become historyless. The history of Ku Klux Klan is simply terrifying. A number of countries have, as has been said here before, such statements, and I actually say no to Norway's becoming a haven for the practice of hate crime. The change in public service personnel comes from you, it is unfortunate that people with the same competence and areas of responsibility should have different criminal protection, depending on where they are added. Thus, as part of the clearing-up of the law, the ‘public officials’ review is being snuffed in, so that it now only applies to persons exercising public authority in the actual sense. In the 1902 Act, one operates with a distinctly high penal framework and a lower threshold for what is punishable by criminal law protection or by professional groups, for example. conductors, teachers and health professionals. We are therefore pleased that an assessment of this comes in the second sub-proposal on criminal law. Flag burning is an example of a sleeping paragraph that will now be removed. But I have to say that watching the Norwegian flag burn during the conflicts that were around the Muhammad drawings made bad, yes, it was actually bad. So I have a lot of understanding for those who say that this still has to be punishable. But the protection of freedom of expression must just be a protection against statements that we do not like, and flag burning is on the lookout for an effective but impeccable act. [[The President clubs.]] [[President clubs again]] In this
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-lower.ana.ud693e295	Talida's over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-lower.ana.ud693e298	I'll be brief. There is a question of the justification for proposal No. 6, from the Right, in terms of the protection of discrimination and the concept of ‘other status’. What it holds is that most of us have gradually got imagination to see some larger minority groups, if it's expansive to use such an expression. However, among these minority groups, there are some that are not completely able to be permanently classified. It is true that there are grey areas when it comes to the protection of discrimination. That is why the Conventions on Human Rights and the case law have taken on board the concept of ‘other status’, simply to ensure that there is an overlapping and comprehensive protection of discrimination in relation to a certain type of people who, I kept saying, might fall into different categories, some categories that have not actually been considered in this Chamber. But we've seen plenty of case law internationally, and also international law obligations, if you choose to interpret it strictly enough. So the term is based on case law. It's based on 50 years of tradition, among other things. by the United Nations/EMC. But I see that we don't get a majority here today, so if the Council of State, for example. in their last post, we could agree that this could be a transmission proposal, and perhaps give some positive input on the way to assessing the impact of the hate crime you regulate by adopting what we are doing today, we are prepared, if necessary, to consider making the proposal for a transmission proposal, so that we do not get it down in Stortinget and thus put the ball completely dead. So now the Council of State here today has every opportunity to give a little idea of whether he will at least assess the impact of the new criminal provisions on hate crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-lower.ana.ud693e307	The size is now in the process of deciding that encouraging, recruiting or training in acts of terrorism, whether at home or abroad, should be punishable. Through this law-making decision, the Stortinge signal today that we are taking responsibility for world peace by ensuring that our own citizens do not become involved in these actions. In the next round, it is our own security that will be safeguarded by this law. This is classical fire protection: prevention without immediate danger of fire, but precisely to prevent a fire that may occur and hit hard if fire protection is not present or sufficient. Norway is part of the world, and our own citizens are not protected from anyone trying to recruit them for acts of terrorism. It is therefore important that we are in the forefront of development. Unfortunately, we have received messages via PST that Norwegian youth has been tried to recruit for acts of violence abroad. In this round, there has been talk of youth with Muslim background. I am pleased that the PST has very well briefed the public on developments, and that the Islamic Council has taken this into account. The Islamic Council of Norway called on Norwegian Muslims on its websites ‘to pay extra attention and to report on suspicious activities if they were to cross them. ‘... SV wants to support positive societal forces and provide PST and other authorities set up to identify, prevent, avert and prosecute this type of action, good tools. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State has signaled that he will take this matter with him, and in an appropriate form come back to Odelstinget/ Stortinget as soon as it can be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-lower.ana.ud693e317	Let me first comment on what the representative Dahl raised in terms of consultation and retrospectiveness. There are many questions that have limped into the material that we have now had in a comprehensive consultation process. And it was at least so that in the hearing -- especially in the hearing that was held with several organisations -- it was a matter of how far you could stretch the question of retrospectiveness. With regard to the discussion of the proposal from the Right on hate crime, I would say: what we are considering is that we are making such a comprehensive provision that it loses its effect by allowing most of it to fall within this. And that's not what we wanted. We just wanted to point out that on some occasions where there are important groups to protect, there needs to be special criminal protection. Now this is a proposal that goes to the Stortinget, so that the decision can be made on whether to turn it into a transmission proposal, but I think that would be a good idea. We need to assess our whole effort in terms of hate crime. We need to look not only at the functioning of the law, but also at the measures taken by the police, including: the question of recording that type of crime. So I would also say that one of the big challenges now is how we're going to be able to enforce these rules adequately. The adoption of an empty penalty order, i.e. We're going to pass a criminal order here today that the police and the judiciary actually can't enforce because evidence isn't too handy, there's a lot of legal proceedings to run. It's really one of the most dangerous things we can do. Once I've met both chief prosecutors at the Rwanda Court of Justice and other international officials who say that now Norway has to get rules in place, we also have to follow up with resources. That's why I'm glad to say that, as is also evident in the media today, we aim to double the investigation capacity of Kripos for the war crimes cases. I hope that I can do this to ensure that we not only reveal more cases, but can also clarify matters for all those who are going to wait for clarification. It goes without saying that it is intended or suspected of this type of crime without getting a clarification, in itself is a heavy burden. So I think we're actually doing something that's very important here today -- first of all, we're getting new rules in place, but at the same time we're taking the promise that we're making by double seeing investigators at Kripos and also a new state attorney's office at the National State Attorney's Office for War Crimes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-lower.ana.ud693e330	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-lower.ana.ud693e338	The Odelsting is supposed to wrestle.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-lower.ana.ud693e346	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Jan Arild Ellingsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right Proposal No. 2-5 by Jan Arild Ellingsen on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats 6 from André Oktay Dahl on behalf of the Right Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party and the Right, says: ‘The Government is asking the Government to submit proposals to ensure a greater degree of individual liability when measuring compensation for damages, as well as an assessment of the need, in law, to clarify the increased criminality of serious, organised offences. ‘... Proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The Government is asked to establish procedures and, if necessary, to propose legislative changes to ensure the withdrawal of Norwegian citizenship in cases where it appears that persons who have been granted citizenship have committed war crimes, terrorism or other serious crime. ‘... Proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider lowering the threshold for police access to arrest persons for offences related to new special criminal law. ‘... Proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The Government is asking the Government to strengthen respect for the deceased by including in the provision on equal treatment in the penal code that the overturning of tombs and the carving of tombs are treated as equal. ‘... Proposal No. 6, from the Right, sounds: ‘The Government is asked to make proposals during 2008 to ensure that hatred crime on the basis of ‘other status’ is given the same legal protection as other hate crime. ‘... These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure. The President will begin by addressing the vote on proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-lower.ana.ud693e2606	The progress party has warned that, as their proposals have fallen, they will support the setting subsidiaryly on these points.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-lower.ana.ud693e2617	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-lower.ana.ud693e2627	The legislative decision will be to send the Creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-lower.ana.ud693e2638	There is no record available. Does anyone ask for the word in accordance with Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the end of the sitting? - The meeting's over.
