ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e67	The representative, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e70	I have the honour, on behalf of the representative Leif Helge Kongshaug and myself, to present a proposal for a representative that ship tunnels be treated in the same way as other infrastructure in VAT legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e75	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e89	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e98	It has not happened many times that the Parliament has decided to ask the National Audit Office to carry out a survey. However, on 5 April 2005, the Stortinget took the following decisions: ‘The Parliament asks the Riksrevision to carry out a specific examination of the administrative practices of the Ministry of Defence and to draw up an assessment of the traceability of the professional recommendations given.’ The background to the decision was, among other things, that the Riksrevision had not found the basis for approving the Ministry of Defence’s accounts for 2003, nor was it able to confirm that the accounts of the Defence Military Organisation for 2004 did not contain significant errors or deficiencies. One of the problems was the lack of evidence. Oral clarifications and unclear processes made control of the arrangements difficult. The report on the follow-up to the Storting decision, which is being discussed here today, shows that the situation with regard to the follow-up to the procedures between the Ministry and the Defence Military Organisation has improved, but that in some of the decision-making processes that have been carried out, it could have been even better. Although there is agreement that significant issues should be documented in addition to the final product, so that it is clear how professional advice is interpreted and handled, the study reveals that this is not fully followed in all matters that must be considered essential. Therefore, traceability can and should be further improved. Which issues are significant and which are not, of course, will always be a matter of judgement. Moreover, the nature of policy is such that, in substance, and politically, it is not necessarily parallel in size. The recently adopted Constitutional Law of the Government’s obligation to provide information to the Storting provides a specific reason for each State Council to ensure evidence of the basis on which the decisions are taken. In a situation where the question of what information has been available to a Council of State is at the forefront, it could be essential to document the decision-making process. It is also important that the obligation to provide information does not stop when a case has been sent to Stortinget. Important information that comes to the Government after a case has been handed over to Stortinget is to be notified to Stortinget. In order for the Storting to exercise effective control over the administration, the Riksrevision must not only have free access to the information it needs, but must also be able to track the handling of professional recommendations and recordings. A unanimous committee endorses the Riksrevision’s assessment that the traceability of the work on St.prp has deteriorated. No (1) as a result of the fact that the budgetary document is no longer sent for formal consultation to the Armed Forces. It is true, as the Ministry points out, that there is no requirement to do so, but the change should lead to reinforced requirements for internal documentation and thus the possibility of verification. The Committee has taken note of the fact that it has not been possible to provide documentation on the process of part of the de-employment in the Defence. This has been one of the truly significant changes made in the defence in recent years, and where the requirement for evidence must be considered to be indisputable. When the investment budget is not fully exploited and the explanation is a lack of brand and technical support in the Defence Logistics Organisation, this underlines that the consequences of the reduction in the annual work framework have not been sufficiently passed on to the Stortinget. The Committee has found grounds to stress that the fact that the Defence Manager has extensive powers to dispose of people in his own organisation does not relieve the Council of State of the obligation to keep the Storting informed of the consequences of the downsizing. There are also issues related to financial management and consumption in 2006. However, this is a question which was addressed in connection with Document No. 1 for 2007-2008, the National Audit Office’s report on the annual audit and audit for the financial year 2006, the last Tuesday, and I therefore do not go into detail. However, it is positive that after 2004, financial reporting has improved, both in terms of traceability and quality. The continued non-standardisation of financial reporting will require the Committee to address it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e127	I am pleased that there is a unanimous committee that is so ready to ask the ministry to ensure better traceability of decisions, decisions and dispositions taken in the ministry. The reason I asked for the floor is that in another context I have sent a letter to the Minister of Defence on the corruption issues that have been in the media and the ministry for a long time. Among other things, I have asked for an overview of the contacts, meetings, telephones and e-mails that have been between the department and Ecokrim in some of these cases, in particular the cases against the counter-miral Rectsten, counter-miral Karlsvik and the flag commander Greening sets that Økokrim has now deposited. I have received a long response, but I have not received any specific information about which meetings, telephones and e-mails have been. And that's the traceability, to know what contact has been between the department and the ecocrim in very delicate and difficult things that I've been asking for. I have not received that, and I allow myself to ask the Council of State for her now, after this debate, will ensure that I get the chronological overview, with dates, names and what was the message in all contacts between the department's people and Ecocrim, possibly also from the Dalseide II Committee to Ecocrim.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e136	I would like to stress that I am pleased that the Riksrevision has carried out such a comprehensive study of traceability. This is important, also in view of the possibility for Storting to review its decisions. This concerns in particular the need for information to the Storing and documentation and traceability of proceedings and decisions. The survey covers the period 2002-2006. The National Audit Office has reviewed a total of thousands of pages of documentation to illustrate the traceability and information passed on to the Stortinget. I share the Committee's and the National Audit Office's view that dialogue between the Department and Defence must be traceable in essential matters and in professional recommendations. This is important if there is disagreement between the ministry and the establishment, and particularly important in the new form of organisation of the department with integrated strategic management. I share the Committee's view that this form of organisation requires great care to ensure traceability of decisions. I am concerned that the information provided by the Government to the Storting must be correct, in the sense that there must be consistency between the information and the underlying reality, as the Committee underlines in the vote. I can assure you that this government, and I as the Council of State, are taking the duty of information to the Storting in the utmost seriousness. I have noticed what the committee says in the setting regarding traceability and information related to the consequences of the down-management. I believe that the information necessary for Storting's handling of the defence conversion has been communicated to Stortinget in my period as State Council. In this context, I would like to refer to the set migration targets and the information provided related to them, inter alia. in the budgetary proposals during the relevant planning periods. However, in the light of the Committee's comments, I would like to stress in the future that traceability will be as good as possible and that the consequences of the decisions will be made known to the Stortinget. I further point out that the Government, in line with the Soria Moria Declaration, informed Stortinget in the spring of 2007 about the experience of the downsizing in Defense, cf. St. pp. No 78 for 2006-2007, About investment in Defence. It is shown here that the Government of the future conversion work will facilitate a greater implementation of changes in device and manning, based on total economic considerations, and that personnel will be well maintained in the future. This was agreed by the Committee. I would also like to stress that the Stortinget has been clear that the migration targets for the period 2002-2005 had to be met. This has underpinned the management of the department during the period in question, so that the main objectives were met. I am pleased that the Committee welcomes the overall improvement of financial management in defence since 2006. Nor do I consider the small consumption of investment funds in 2006 to be satisfactory. However, I believe that budgeting was also within the framework of realistic budgeting requirements in 2006. A number of measures have been put in place to improve the implementation of the material investment projects. Finally, I would like to emphasise again that I take my obligation to inform Stortinget in the utmost seriousness. I agree with the Riksrevision's assessments regarding the need for information to the Stortinget and the importance of keeping the Stortinget informed about significant management issues. In general, in response to Mr. Carl I. Hagen's question, I would like to say that all enquiries that come formally from the Stortinget should be answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e162	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2825]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e178	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e187	The extensive change in defence that has taken place in recent decades has also been aimed at strengthening Norway’s ability to participate in international operations. This has required the conversion of a mobilization defence with a focus on anti-invasion defence to an effort-based defence to ensure both national and international operations. In principle, all defence units, with the exception of the Garden and the music, should also be able to contribute to international operations. The aim of the National Audit Office's investigation has been twofold - firstly, to assess whether the defence meets the Storting's decisions and assumptions relating to participation in operations abroad, and secondly, to what extent the Ministry of Defence and Defence facilitate these assumptions. The study reveals that the defence lacks access to both material and personnel, which limits the possibility of participating in foreign operations. There are concerns that the defence depends on the same key personnel in order to participate in different operations abroad. This places a considerable burden on individuals and will in the long term help to reduce the opportunities for action. I have noticed that the Government in its long-term plan underlines the need to strengthen logistics and sanitation support. This is important and necessary to support operations abroad. It is also serious when the study shows that insufficient capacity for personnel with technical and marked competence in the Defence Logistics Organisation is a contributing cause for the suspension of, among others. material acquisitions. The lack of capacity has consequences for the ability of the FLO to assist foreign forces. This is an unintended consequence of the landing in the FLO that needs to be addressed. A number of the findings presented in the National Audit Office’s report have been made known to the public through recent years’ accounts and administrative audits. This applies, inter alia, to: improvement points related to requirement and quality assurance of reporting. Similarly, there are still weaknesses in the experience transfer system and unclear responsibilities related to financial management for out-of-office operations. This also applies to the material deficiencies, as dealt with by Stortinget in Document No. 3:16 for 2004-2005, on material investment projects in the Defence. This study covers some substantial delays in acquisitions. Of course, in the case of foreign operations, Norway does not sign up for participation if we do not have the capacity to do so. If we are to participate, we must have sufficient crew, proper crew and relevant equipment. This is why, despite their lack of this survey, Norway has participated in important foreign operations. We have a comprehensive and long-term commitment in Afghanistan, and we were ready to participate in Darfur. But the shortcomings that exist place limits on what we can contribute. There are limitations on the extent to which the contributions can be made, and there are limitations on where we can contribute. Then we also have to remember that there is a situation we share with all the other countries. Even the world's strongest and best equipped defenses -- the American -- now we have our capacity limits in this way. This is not to devalue the seriousness of the findings of the management report. An overall committee emphasises that the Ministry of Defence takes seriously the comments of the National Audit Office and takes action to correct the deficiencies and weaknesses that have been identified. It is important that the Storting should be kept informed of progress and that any specific challenges should be communicated. There is one particular comment in the vote, and I assume that the spokesman of the Advance Party himself will explain it. But I allow myself, as spokesman for the Workers' Party, a comment on the part of the remark that comes out in a proposal that the Government will come to the Stortinget and ask for more money when those who are granted are exhausted. This shows how far the Progress Party has gone from its point of view - as a party for a strong reduction in taxes, taxes and bureaucracy. Today there is a party that signals to the Defense: the decision to grant the Trust may be considered temporary. There will be more when the money is spent. This shows that the Progress Party has become a party for a strong reduction of budgetary discipline and respect for the decision of the Storting. The message is: waste away. That's enough egg liqueur for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e221	Let me first repeat to the rapporteur that he was not quite correct in the representation of our proposal and its contents. This principle is not a general principle. We've said it's about operations abroad. Operations abroad by military forces are per year. definition, as a rule, dangerous. There are vulnerable people who are at risk of life and who may be at risk of significant harm. In a situation that is completely different from when this party was founded in 1973, we now have an annual surplus in the state economy of NOK 300 billion, and we have a fund of over NOK 2000 billion. It wasn't the situation in the old days. It was then difficult to balance the budgets, and there was a very different need to rationalise and maintain budgetary discipline. So we change as society changes, where others stand completely firm in what they decided 20-30 years ago, instead of following in time and adapting gradually. We honestly believe that in the case of our military forces involved in operations abroad, it should not be necessary for them not to have the best equipment to defend themselves with, the best protective equipment, the best transport equipment and the best - which we come to the next case - sanitation that can be provided. We've seen things where it's been more important for different governments to save money and put more into shares and bonds abroad than to make sure that our soldiers have the best equipment, but we have a completely different priority. The usual reasons for not spending more money are domestic economics - with regard to inflation risk, interest rate rises, price rises and losses of industrial workplaces. In terms of equipment acquisition for use by our foreign strengths, purchasing this equipment from suppliers other than Norwegians has no impact on the Norwegian domestic economy. That's why we have this principle in this area. We're not even going to experience what we've experienced in Afghanistan, where there's been a lack of transport capacity -- which, at last, after there's been a lot of public mention of it, has gotten better -- and lack of sanitation staff. When it was discovered, liberal appropriations were suddenly not made before - therefore this principle. I have great pleasure in bringing up our proposal No. 1, which refers to operations abroad and our forces there, and not the general principle on which the rapporteur tried to have fun. The second proposal I would like to raise is proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox We look with concern at the attempts to frustrate the head of defence's involvement in public debate and exchange of views, so that professional views in various areas are not expressed. Probably they're going to be suffocated in the Defense -- in the so-called common strategic leadership, which the Progress Party was opposed to, and where we still see that we were clearly right. If not all the Norwegian society and the Norwegian people, and of course the opposition parties, in the public exchange and in the public debate on defence policy issues, are to know what the defence leadership, that is, the head of defence, and also other officers think, it becomes meaningless. In all other areas, you are very happy to get professionals on the job in the public exchange, and in fact, there are many who claim the overall research base - even if it is completely wrong in terms of climate - and you rely on economists. But when it comes to something as important as the Defense, those who have it should not be allowed to participate in the debate. That is why we disagree with the planned merger of the press and information department to the Heads of State or Defence, and therefore we propose to postpone this merger until the matter has been dealt with in the Stortinget. At least I can notify you that we will be against it. Rather, we want to go back to the way it was in the past, to strengthen the position of the head of defence, to leave the ministry, and to ensure that management is not only right, but also obliged to express publicly its views on defence policy issues. It will be enriching for this debate if those who really have the most knowledge of it, at least professionally, are involved and share their views in the public space, instead of the trouble that this government, in my opinion, is now putting up, and that was done in the past, by the very, very unfortunate merger that happened. I then deal with the proposals No. 1 and 2 of the Advance Party in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e238	The representative Carl I. Hagen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e241	To the extent that there is full agreement mainly in the Committee on Petitions, it is not necessary to have a long post. However, I would like to make a few comments, and my colleague, Laila Davøy, will take up a side on this matter with regard to the veterans. One of the main objectives of the changes in Defence in recent years has been to get a better operational defence. Defence shall be changeable and effort-based with emphasis on national and international operations. The defence's capacity shall in principle be capable of being used both at home and outside. In its study, the National Audit Board has assessed whether the defence meets the Storting’s decisions and assumptions relating to participation in operations abroad, and whether the Ministry of Defence and Defence through governance facilitates the fulfilment of those assumptions. The survey shows that there are gaps in both material and personnel that could be used in operations abroad. This is also mainly an agreement between the Department, the Defence and different levels of Defence. In the FLO, the Defence Logistics Organisation, there is a lack of commercial and technical personnel, which also affects FLO’s ability to support operations abroad. I expect the department to take this into account. The National Audit Office also points out that there are improvement areas related to requirements and reporting. Hopefully this will improve once a new overall document has been prepared that sets operational requirements for the Defence Units in the context of the new long-term message. The Christian People's Party welcomes the fact that, despite the shortcomings identified by the report, Norway has been able to provide its contribution to international operations. Norwegian soldiers do and have made a great effort in international operations for decades. Their safety and security must always be a priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e258	The purpose of the audit has been to assess whether the defence complies with the decisions and assumptions of the Storting regarding participation in operations abroad and the extent to which the Ministry of Defence and Defence through its governance facilitates these assumptions. We have noticed that the National Audit Office's investigation reveals significant shortcomings in the availability of material both in the defence sectors and in the common capabilities. Within the Defence Logistics Organisation, there is a lack of technical and commercial personnel, which has implications for FLO’s ability to support operations abroad. It is our opinion that the Ministry of Defence takes seriously the comments of the National Audit Office, and that the Department and the Defence Department themselves have been aware of the shortcomings and weaknesses that have been revealed, and have taken action to correct them. The Committee assumes that the Ministry of Defence will focus on this during the coming long-term and will ask to be properly briefed on the impact of the measures taken. Despite the criticism that has been made, at least we in the Central Party have noticed that the defence during the period covered by the survey has had the ability to deliver the contributions that Norway has committed to in the case of international operations. I would like to stress that it is impressive, but at the same time it may mean that the pressure on the special command in Defence today is large, perhaps too large, and that it is necessary to strengthen the manning of Defence in the future, or that one might have to consider whether it is possible to maintain the level of contribution we have to international operations in the future. These conditions are intertwined and it is important to have a continuous assessment of that situation. We have to be careful so that we do not lose the good skills many people have in the defense today, in a pressed labour market where defence can rarely be competitive on wages. With regard to the objections of the Advance Party to a merger of the Press and Information Department, I would like to point out that this is a process that has been planned for a long time. It will strengthen the coordination of information work in defence. I find it strange that it can be claimed that this measure is a weakening of the military professional prerequisites for military foreign operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e271	I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that the National Audit Office has carried out a thorough examination of the Defence Prerequisites for participation in operations abroad. The national audit highlights the potential for improvement in several areas. I would like to stress that I take these matters seriously, and the comments made by the Riksrevision and the Committee. However, I would like to mention what has also emerged in the articles here, that we have provided the strengths to which we have committed ourselves. The units that have been deployed in operations over the past few years have also received very good feedback on both the quality and the ability to solve these tasks. These feedbacks have come from the Heads of State or Government, and from the United Nations, the EU and NATO. I'm glad the committee has also noticed this. I agree that material and personnel availability is a key prerequisite for participation in operations. In St. prp. No 48 for 2007-2008, the government’s proposal for a new long-term defence plan, is set up for the introduction of new and further development of existing capacities. This will make Defence more accessible and applicable to operations abroad. I am well aware of the challenges that the Riksrevision points out in terms of staff shortages. Providing some categories of personnel, especially in connection with communication, sanitation and logistics, has been a particular challenge. Several measures have therefore been taken, including: is the annual work frame in the Army strengthened by over 40 pst. during the last two years. The new long-term plan also provides for a further increase in the number of defence employees. This will in the long term strengthen the defence’s ability to contribute with relevant forces. This is also an important measure to respond to the concerns expressed by the representative Breck, with the pressure on some staff. The Ministry of Defence has focused on strengthening operational capability. This means ensuring better strategic development of Defence in the context of preparedness, exercises and operations both nationally and abroad. In the light of the comments of the National Audit Office, the Ministry has drawn up a list of measures to improve management of operations abroad. Several measures have already been taken. Among other things, it has been mandated to establish an evaluation system for the Army and to improve the experience transfer systems. Operational requirements will be developed and the financial management capacity of Chapter 1792 of the State budget - operations abroad - will be strengthened. The list of measures will be dealt with routinely in the Ministry. With regard to the proposal of the Progress Party to assume that additional appropriations are requested to address deficiencies in material, exercises and other cost-intensive purposes, I would first like to stress that the strengths we send to operations outside are properly composed, trained and equipped. No departments are sent out until they are declared ready from the Defense Department. Secondly, material access is not just a matter of money. I agree with Mr Hagen that the soldiers deserve the best equipment, but it is also true that delivery times are often long, because many nations want to buy the same type of material at the same time. The third factor is that the Government is proposing additional appropriations for new operations, where there is often a need to buy new and specific material, i.e. operations that could not necessarily be foreseen when the budget was presented. To the representative, Lånke, I would like to say that deficiencies in FLO personnel are probably also the result of the conversion and downsizing that was between 2002 and 2005, and that we are working hard and actively to make amends. Finally, I would like to stress again that I am concerned that the Stortinget is well informed, and that I take seriously the Riksrevision's assessments regarding the deficiencies identified.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e292	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e295	I am pleased that the Council of State gave some support to our idea that it should not be on money when it came to necessary equipment for our operations and soldiers and officers in missions abroad, but she thought there might be problems with delivery time on equipment. Therefore, I would like a clear confirmation from her that if there is a need for material of a different nature - that the professional militants clearly say that we want this - and if it can then be obtained, it should not be on money. Have I then understood the Council of State correctly?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e300	The representative Hagen has understood correctly that it should not be on money when it is material that the head of defence believes is necessary to carry out an operation. It's not on money. But very often we are enough in the situation that there are very long delivery times on the material we are going to have, because it is not just us who are looking for the material. That material is a lot of nations out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e306	I thank you for the very positive and reasonable response to the Council of State, which clearly means that it is where there are no delivery times. In some contexts, I have seen the Council of State there that she may think that the defence industry in many countries is too active in selling their goods and equipment, and that there is actually a very large sales pressure and delivery capacity in very many areas - so much pressure that you go to methods, or earlier went to methods, which the Council of State is quite rightly fighting, and which I share her views on combating. I just want to say thank you for a good answer regarding my previous line. I accept that with great joy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e313	I must say that I am pleased with the defence industry and that the defence industry can deliver. I do not understand the sales pressure. When we really need equipment, on the contrary, I am very satisfied with and happy that they can deliver. But I have to admit that many times I am in a situation where there are long delivery times on materials that we would more than want to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e318	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e323	A main objective of the change in defence in recent years has been to get a better operational defence. During the transition period, the defence has evolved from a mobilization defence to an intervention defence, with emphasis on quality and flexibility. The defence's capacity shall in principle be capable of being used both at home and outside. In its study, the National Audit Board has assessed whether the defence meets the Storting’s decisions and assumptions relating to participation in operations abroad, and whether the Ministry of Defence and Defence through governance facilitates the fulfilment of those assumptions. In the proceedings, the Christian People's Party has noticed that: ‘The defence provides high-quality strength support, but there are significant volume, endurance and operational capability challenges’. In addition, it says: ‘However, the Ministry points out that in recent years the trend has been that the defence is being required to participate in an increasing number of operations and preparedness forces.’ And another quote: ‘The Ministry of Defence has confirmed in an interview that any suspension of material acquisitions will affect operational capability and the Ministry has further pointed out the risk of significant stress on the personnel concerned.’ The National Audit Board points out that it is serious that the defence has personnel shortages and wear, in particular in the Army and within Community capacities, and questions whether the defence has capabilities to perform both national and international tasks as foreseen by the Stortinget. For those of us who have worked on veteran issues, it's their stories that come forward. Does corruption and government have such great ambitions to participate in international operations that our soldiers are being robbed? There is a question that can be asked. The army believes that the ratio of one to five is what takes care of the individual’s mental health and family life in a satisfactory way, i.e. six months out and two and a half years out in Norway. We're not there today. In addition, we are aware of the challenges of providing enough highly qualified sanitary staff to Afghanistan, which many have experienced, for example. surgeons and anesthesiologists. The Christian People's Party notes that despite the shortcomings identified by the report, defence has been able to provide its contribution to international operations. The safety and security of the soldiers must always be a priority, therefore the reports in the report must also be considered in the context of the long-term plan, which is currently under consideration. Norwegian soldiers do and have for decades made a great effort in international operations of which we are all proud.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e356	When I have not taken the floor earlier in this matter, it is because the right is part of the majority of the committee, and I also have little to add to the rapporteur's statement. On the other hand, the Progress Party is promoting a proposal, proposal No. 2, which I see has nothing to do with this matter that is dealt with by the Control Committee, to do at all, thematically. In my opinion, it belongs to the Trade Union Committee, i.e. to the Defence Committee. But once the proposal has been included in the vote, and it has been promoted in the Chamber, I would like to say that this view of the planned merger of the press and information department of the Council of State and the Chief of Defence is a point of view expressed publicly by the Right in the past. So we share this view with the Progress Party, and believe that this case has a principle side, not least in terms of the defence manager's professional independence on such issues. That is why we share the view that the matter should have been dealt with in Stortinget. That means that we will vote in favour of what we are for, even if the matter in itself might have been addressed in a different context. I therefore advise the Right-wing Group to vote in favour of proposal No. 2. from the Progress Party, and ask the President to take note of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e365	I would like to comment on some of what the representative Davøy said, because it is a topic and an area that is important to us, namely that we should not engage in robbery on our staff, and the recognition that there has been a lack of personnel. At the same time, I want to say, as I also said in my post, that we have had an increase in the Army of 40 pst. during the last two years. There are permanent positions in the Army. In addition, through the new long-term plan, we will also fill in the areas - interconnectivity, sanitation, management support and logistics - where there are gaps, in particular the personnel who are subject to the greatest burden. In addition, I would say that for the future, we will also try, as well as we can at least, to divide the missions into several defenses, because there is no doubt that the Army has taken a large share of the missions that have been, naturally enough. To the question of whether we have too much ambition, I would say that this is also about showing solidarity with our allies, especially in Afghanistan, where there is a great pressure, not only in Norway, but also in other countries. There's a balance between what we can do and what we want to contribute. Otherwise I agree that one to five ratio is a very good goal. And as I said, we are actively working to fill up with key personnel. Then to the representative Foss’ point of view on proposal No. 2, from Carl I. Hagen, which I actually think is quite interesting. Integrated strategic management in the Ministry of Defence was introduced on 1 August 2003 under the previous government. It was then decided that the head of defence would enter the Ministry of Defence. This means, among other things: that the head of defence has access to the entire department as a whole, to all the functions of the department. He's using the legal department, he's using the operating department, he can use the finance department -- absolutely the whole department. It was natural to have two information departments until we moved into a common management building. So now we have two information units sitting on the wall. This has nothing to do with gnawing the military views. For those points of view, it is not the information department, it is still the head of defence who is to be included - of course, through his own numeracy function.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e374	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2826]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e390	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 50 minutes and allocated up to 10 minutes to the rapporteur, up to 5 minutes to each of the main speakers of the other parties and up to 10 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e399	On 8 November last year, one Norwegian soldier was killed and another severely injured in connection with an attack near the Norwegian camp in Meymaneh, Afghanistan. The injured soldier was transported to the camp in Meymaneh, where a German surgeon arrived and was given lifesaving treatment to this soldier. Later it was said that it was a coincidence that there had been a surgeon present in the camp. The surgeon told the media that if the injured person had not received rapid surgical help, he would not have survived. This event was, as is well known, the reason why the media seriously focused on the sanitary support of the Norwegian forces in Afghanistan. In a statement in the VG on 13 November 2007, reference was made to a statement by the Chief of Defence Sanity, Major General Leif Sverre Rosén, in May 2007, where he publicly stated that he felt the medical aid to Norwegian soldiers in Afghanistan was irresponsible. It also appeared that he had stated that in this situation he would not have sent his own son to Afghanistan, and that the lives of soldiers were put at risk because of lack of money. In this essay, it was also stated that the Chief of Defense Sverre Densen, after these statements, called Rosén to a meeting. The meeting should have meant that Major General Leif Sverre Rosén had to sign an agreement on study leave which would subsequently result in resignation from the position of Chief of Defence Sanctity. The agreement also included an obligation for Rosén not to comment on the content of the agreement or on other matters related to the Defence. On this basis, the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee took the initiative to send a letter to the Minister of Defence asking for a comment on the matter and the reasons for the chosen procedure. The letter of reply from the Ministry sent two further letters with new questions. All letters from the committee with letters of reply are attached to the committee’s position. In addition to the request, the Committee received a number of key documents, partly graduated, from the Ministry of Defence. In the light of several rounds of correspondence between the Control Committee and the Minister for Defence, the Committee decided to raise a control case and to hold an open hearing. This open hearing took place on 19 December. The following received the invitation and met for consultation: Minister of Defence Anne-Grete Ström-Erichsen, Chief of Defence Sverre Dien and Major General Leif Sverre Rosén. During the open hearing, the matter was further clarified from various points of view, and the sum of the information provided by statements in the Stortinget, in letters, in various documents and in the oral communications in the hearing provided the background for the Committee's assessments and the conclusions reached by the Committee. As the rapporteur, I am very pleased that the position of the Committee is largely unanimous. When I say ‘mainly’, it’s because the Progress Party has made a special remark in addition to the joint comments on the relationship between Major General Leif Sverre Rosén and the Defence Team. I believe that the spokesperson of the Progress Party will explain the content of this comment in more detail. The background to Norway’s decision to send forces to Afghanistan is that we want to contribute to greater stability and security for the people of this country. There is a broad majority in the Grand Duchy behind this decision. We are aware that the safety situation has deteriorated and today is much more demanding than it was when Norway went to the step of entering PRT Meymaneh in 2004. It envisages a continuous assessment of the necessary safeguards in the light of the present threat picture at all times. There is no disagreement that the security of the soldiers should be high-priority. It is equally clear that no one can give absolute assurance either that situations leading to injury or loss of life occur, given the risky situation in Afghanistan. It has unfortunately happened, and it will probably happen again. But then it is also very important for me to stress that it is not in any way necessary to get attached to the idea that what we are concerned about in this context is to look for guilty people. The starting point for Storting's work in this context is only to obtain a decision-making basis for taking measures that can improve the safety of our soldiers in the field. We are well aware that when we send the soldiers into dangerous operations, we assume a great responsibility. At the same time, we must ensure that everything that can be done is done to ensure safety. We owe it to our soldiers. We owe it to their relatives. We owe it to the country. So it is that the Storting must be able to put its trust in the fact that the government of the responsible state council ensures that that is the case. And I am glad that the current Council of State has so clearly stated in several presentations to the Stortinget that she is above all excited about the security of the soldiers. However, when it comes for a day to look up in the media that the medical coverage is deficient by the Norwegian forces, it is our duty to respond. In a letter to the Committee, the Minister of Defence pointed out that the security of our forces is linked not only to the availability of doctors and other specialised competences, but also to individual skills in sanitation, military skills, situational understanding, etc. etc. It's in the interaction between the different factors you're trying to make safety the best possible -- of course it is. At the same time, however, it must be established that good and accessible medical coverage and sanitation skills are fundamentally crucial in critical situations. Therefore, there must always be a medical preparedness to ensure rapid and sound treatment at the time of the need. Through this process, the Committee has become aware that the health of the defence has for many years highlighted the problems of recruiting a sufficient number of doctors and surgeons for foreign missions. The matter has been investigated. As early as 1996, a working group put forward proposals for a number of measures aimed at recruiting medical professionals with special expertise in emergency medicine and war surgery. But it turned out to be hard to put these into life. It is recognised that for several reasons it is very challenging to recruit medical personnel for the Defence. This underlines the continuing need to actively work for the recruitment of special skills both in the short and long term. To this end, the Committee considers the agreement, signed with Ullevål University Hospital in June 2007, to be very positive and will stress the importance of the fact that similar agreements also come into effect with other health establishments. It is also good that the Minister of Defence, right after the Stortinget took up the medical situation in Afghanistan, has taken up the difficult medical coverage with the Minister of Health and the Norwegian Medical Association. It is also good to have a temporary contract for surgical coverage, and the Committee takes note of the fact that an overall plan has now been drawn up to ensure surgical capacity until 1 June of this year. So far, everything may seem fine on the part of the Committee, but it should also be borne in mind that the Committee also has some critical comments on the government's handling of the matter. A joint committee stated that it was surprised that the Minister of Defence did not address the matter until after the matter was brought up in the media and the Stortinget got involved. The Minister himself has stated that it has long been a problem to obtain enough doctors for Afghanistan. The initiative could have been taken much earlier by the Council of State. Another aspect of the agreement with the Medical Association is that it provides very good conditions for those to whom it applies in relation to other groups. The Committee therefore questions whether the defence itself could not achieve such agreements in the past if it had been opened up to equivalent conditions. It presupposes, of course, that this agreement, as well as future agreements, is in line with the law applicable to agreements on behalf of the public. The third thing that the committee points out was that the Minister of Defense said in the hearing that she did not take her own initiative last year when Major General Rosén spoke about the lack of a body and said that he would not have sent his own son to Afghanistan. The Committee considers that it would be natural if such an opinion by the chairperson of the Defence Sanctity had taken some more initiative on the part of the Minister of Defence. The last point I want to touch on about what the committee points out, and which I believe for my own account is the most serious, concerns the disclosure obligation. The Committee points out that prior to 22 November 2007 no information had been provided to the United Kingdom regarding the medical coverage in Afghanistan and the problems of recruiting specialists. It would have been natural if the sanitary coverage, including medical coverage, had been a subject that was affected in line with other safety measures, as the safety situation has evolved, and taking into account what has emerged in the media in this matter. The Committee considers that the Council of State should have informed the Stortinge at an earlier stage of these challenges. It can be left to the impression that other aspects of Norway’s involvement in Afghanistan have removed the focus from the health preparedness challenges. This will stand as a criticism from a total staggering. I will, as the rapporteur-in-Office, pay attention to these points. The Committee has shown caution in saying so much about the resignation agreement between the Defence and Major General Rosén. I refer to the Committee's comments in the vote, and I also consider that other members of the Committee might comment on this agreement in more detail. However, let me end by saying that the documentation submitted to the Committee shows that the health of the defence on a number of occasions focused on the need for increased appropriations and on the recruitment situation, and pointed to measures that could be implemented in the context of a better economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e448	This case is a good example of a case which makes sense in the Control and Constitutional Committee for Treatment. As long as these kinds of things occur in the light of media dramaturgy, a significant distance between drama and reality is created quickly. In the opening round of this matter in the media, the Committee's chairman, Lodve Solholm, told the Newspaper that the Stortinget may have been behind the lights when it approved to send soldiers to sharp missions in Afghanistan. His party trap Per Roar Bredvold, in the Defence Committee, said to the same newspaper he did not overlook the fact that the Progress Party would make a motion of censure against the Minister of Defence if the party were not satisfied with the presentation. Today we see that the party seems to be well pleased. The criticism of the party's particular remark is directed against the head of defence and not the minister. In this respect, this case is evidence that it makes sense to carry out a thorough review of matters that are serious but complex, although it implies that the political gains an opposition can see for itself, are blown away by factual realities. The Committee, following a thorough examination of documents and consultation, has gathered on a balanced assessment of the course of events. The most important thing was that in the relatively few weeks when the surgical capacity in Meymaneh was weaker than desired, the operations were adapted to this. Medical preparedness in Meymaneh has not at any time been below the level of ambition on which it was decided that we should go into this area in 2004. Then the security situation in northern Afghanistan has deteriorated and is more demanding. This requires, as the rapporteur pointed out, increased resources both for safety measures and for medical preparedness. Although 100 psts can never be guarded, the safety of the soldiers and the possibility of qualified assistance if the accident is out must be given the highest priority. This has also been emphasised by the Minister of Defence in his statement in the Stortinget and during the hearing. The reality is that the recruitment of medical personnel for this type of operation is difficult. Norway is a small country with limited access to specialists. Attempts to cooperate with other countries in this field are an opportunity that was worked on, but did not lead to it in time. The result was the interim agreement with the Medical Association, which ensured the surgical coverage until 1 April of this year, after the Minister of Defence took a new initiative with the Minister of Health. Later, a long-term agreement has been put in place with healthcare companies that will ensure access to surgeons. As can be seen from the case documents, and as the case rapporteur also explained in detail, there has been a long time worked in the Defence Sanitation to get a good medical coverage. But one did not succeed in finding a solution that could ensure enough surgeons after our responsibility for the Mazar-e Sharif hospital expired in March 2007. Only after the Council of State itself took an initiative with the Minister of Health did the temporary solution be put in place. When, to use that expression, the system didn't come forward, you'll always ask yourself why not take such an initiative before, as the Council of State said both in its statement in the Stortinget on 22 November and in the hearing on 19 December. The attitude of the Control and Constitutional Committee also affects the relationship with the Storting and indicates that it would have been natural for the Council of State to have informed the Storting of the challenges facing the sanitary side at an earlier stage. The constitutional importance of this case, however, is that medical preparedness had not been below the ambitions of deciding to enter Meymaneh. So the big business is not behind the lights, as the representative Lodve Solholm asked questions about in the newspaper. The opinions of Major General Rosén in May last year did not trigger any alarm clocks in the Defence Committee either. This may be due to the fact that the Scientific Committee was reasonably well aware of the complexity of the challenges of ensuring adequate medical preparedness, especially in the case of surgery, in this type of foreign operation. With regard to the relationship between the head of defence and Major General Leif Sverre Rosén, I believe this is a purely personal matter that the Stortinget should not initially have any opinion about. But let me stress that I have never seen this matter in the light that there is any special responsibility on the health of the defense because you did not manage to get to port with something that was really difficult. However, once the agreement between Rosén and the Defence has been reached on the table, I share the assessment that the point dealing with the confidentiality of the parties could have been worded differently in order to avoid the misunderstandings that we have seen. The Minister of Defence has repeatedly stated that high medical preparedness and measures to strengthen the security of Norwegian soldiers abroad have top priority. I am convinced that the Government will do what it can to contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e482	Here again, I must say that I am pleased with many of the views expressed by a joint committee, with, as I interpret it, quite strong criticism of the defence management and the Ministry of Defence. I also think that the setting is a sort of uprising for Major General Leif Sverre Rosén, who was subjected to quite strong criticism in many respects. He himself said in the hearing that he felt pressured out of the defense, because he had notified, said from, about poor sanitation. After his very strong statement that he would not send his son to Afghanistan, he was called in and got about a penalty and came in a situation where he felt pressured to sign an agreement, which he really did not want, as he had wanted to complete his service in Defense. There I would just like to refer to the written representation of the hearing which is attached to the nomination of the committee. Svein Roald Hansen said that this is also a personal matter in the defense that the Stortinget should initially not think anything about. I will also be allowed to report my disagreement there. If, and in this case when, there is a strong criticism of human resources management in several areas, not only in the Rosén case, but also in other matters, which goes beyond the defence and defence capabilities and perhaps the defense of many officers - because instead of meeting understanding with their management, criticism - then it is of course a task for the Storting to come up with its views, it is itself either in defence or elsewhere. And there are concerns in some parts of central government. Yesterday there was a meeting about unrest in a company. It is clear that it also has to do with the monitoring and control by the Storting of the State Councils’ activities and what the State Councils do to the bosses also in the external department that shows lack of understanding and respect for their employees. Here, too, in my opinion, it is quite clear that there were budgetary considerations, which made that, after a long series of enquiries from Major General Leif Sverre Rosén and from others who were responsible in Afghanistan, about lack of sanitation, there was a lack of money. Had the Council of State said at an early stage that having a proper sanitation is a priority task, and that we have to find more baits to get people to set up, we know that in every context it is possible. When it was finally done, you made agreements -- expensive agreements -- that might have to be looked at in the future. But it has turned out, at the moment they took the initiative, after it had become public, and after the Storting began to engage, that the Council of State should have done this earlier. I allow myself to say that I also think that this should have been taken into account by the Defence Management, standing far more upright and saying that this is approaching being irresponsible. It is also an obligation for the defence management. If they feel that it is irresponsible to maintain a service due to either inadequate equipment or poor sanitation, and that goes beyond the safety of the soldiers - when all politicians have said that security should stand in the high seat - you should stand upright and say that either we have to drag the soldiers home or you have to raise the money to pay for what all the politicians have said is important, namely security, and not let this be pushed away. It is possible to do it far, far better than what is shown in this case. As we assess it, and we have allowed ourselves to say that, during the hearing, we received clear signals that Major General Leif Sverre Rosén's response seems to be very solid and credible, and these, in our opinion, were in contrast to the Chief of Defense's description of the situation. We also find that the Ministry of Defence's treatment of Major General Leif Sverre Rosén in this matter has been very critical, and that the health manager's version of the process in connection with the retirement agreement seems credible. It was completely on the verge that this was also formulated in proposals for voting in the form of a date decision, but right at this point we let the doubt fall to the benefit of the council.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e497	At least let me start by quoting one sentence from the unanimous vote of the Committee: ‘Norwegian soldiers have made a great effort to create greater stability and security for the Afghan people.’ It's a unanimous committee that says this, and it's probably okay to keep up for future debates. In the debate on the matter to which this setting applies, not least Major General Rosén's relationship has been the focus. So let me highlight two things. One is that the committee does not criticise the opinion of Major General Rosén, who created some debate, namely that he would not send his own son to the area because of poor sanitation. On the other hand, it is a unanimous committee which is very critical that as a result he had to sign a taushet statement on general matters. During the hearing - as will be seen in the annex to the suspension - the Council of State went very far in saying that this declaration should probably have been in addition. I think that was a good thing, and in many ways, I get recognition of something that you can do more often, that is, contribute to a little bit of self-criticism. But I guess it stops there. The committee says in the unanimous vote that if Rosén had received the same money that was later put at the disposal of the defense, he would also get it. This is stated in a more detailed wording on page 8 of the setting: ‘It is therefore possible to ask questions as to whether the Defence itself could not have achieved such agreements in the past if it had been opened under similar conditions.’ This is a unified formulation from a joint committee, including government parties, and must be read on that basis. It is, as the rapporteur also said, strong criticism of the Council of State on two important points. It's a unanimous committee - including the government parties - that says that they ‘supposes that the Minister of Defence did not address the matter until after the matter was brought up in the media and the Stortinget got involved. The Minister of Defence himself states that it has long been a problem to obtain enough doctors for Afghanistan’. So once again we see an example that one thing only gets political momentum after the media has picked it up. The Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has further clarified the matter. That's the setting. On another point, there is also very strong criticism when the Committee says that ‘the Council of State should at an earlier stage inform the Council of the challenges facing it’, that is, of the sanitary situation of our forces in Afghanistan. In my opinion, this is a strong criticism in parliamentary language, not least because it concerns an important area such as the Council of State's obligation to provide information to the Stortinget. The rapporteur - here I must be allowed to express some disagreement, even if it is a unanimous vote - interprets it so that the dramaturgy that prefaced the matter in the media, that is, before the committee took up the matter and discussed, is quite different from what can be read in the vote. In fact, I do not agree with that assessment. For once, I would say, I think that the media had a good basis for quite strong wording in this matter. But it is clear that there is a difference between both language and form in majorisation settings and in newspapers, which are more or less dependent on daily sales. I should perhaps not mention to a rapporteur who has a press background that there must be quite a difference in form. But when a joint committee, including the government parties, makes such strong criticisms that you should have informed the Storting better, and that you should have been faster about taking initiatives, there are quite strong issues in parliamentary terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e526	Let me first repeat to both the representative Foss and the representative Hagen that, in my opinion and after the position, there is no strong criticism from the Council of State. Had it done, we would of course not have been in the setting. The setting reflects an absolutely necessary clarification of something that emerged with the background of the tragic event that happened in Meymaneh last November when a young Norwegian soldier lost his life, and one was badly injured. This led to the discussion that we saw in the public, and that is quite right, as the rapporteur points out. In relation to the dramaturgy that was in the press, and the heated discussion that was, Mr. Lånke has provided a sober and proper attitude that a collective committee can stand behind, precisely because it is balanced and proper. It has addressed the challenges of the matter. That's absolutely right. In this, it's because of the episodes that happened in Meymaneh, and what came out in the discussion about Rosén and the hearing about this, we have to make it clear that something could have been done differently. At least that is not a strong criticism. In it there is only a necessary gain of experience. Let me also stress that this is a political responsibility. It is, of course, the responsibility of the Minister of Defence and the Defence Management to do what is possible to have a readiness to enable our soldiers to have access to the best possible sanitary service in operations abroad. You can never guard against what can happen in Afghanistan or elsewhere. This is precisely why it is so important to ensure the highest level of medical and sanitary preparedness. An overall committee agrees that it is important that the security of our soldiers should always be the highest priority. At the same time, we also agree that, as I said, it is not possible to guard. That will happen again, I guess we also agree with the fact that we are participating in as risky warfare as in areas in Afghanistan. The Norwegian authorities shall facilitate framework conditions enabling the defence to carry out medical assistance, surgical assistance and emergency medicine at a high level. It means good and accessible medical coverage and sanitary skills. That, we see, will be absolutely crucial in critical situations. What this case has also shown is that it has been difficult to recruit medical personnel for the Defence. It's been a challenge. It is also clear from the statement that there have been many different reasons for this - both that it has become more dangerous to go to Afghanistan, that sanitary missions in Afghanistan are about attracting a scarce specialist resource, and that the mission in Afghanistan has been somewhat meritorious and to a small extent has given professional updates. That is why it is positive that the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Health have concluded an agreement, as it was announced on 5 February, where, together with the Medical Association, an agreement has been made to ensure surgery in the short term. As I understand it, more long-term agreements with health care businesses have now been ensured that the situation we had for a few weeks, namely that there were no surgeons present, is now resolved for the future. It's a very satisfactory situation, and a joint committee is pleased that what was the challenge now seems to be solved. The situation that arose is not because of economics, although it has been part of it, because it turns out now that once you have looked through the matter, that there was financial resources made available. The reason why much of this was demanding was simply that it was difficult to recruit special competencies in surgery and emergency medicine. That was actually the main reason why you couldn't have sufficient surgical preparedness. The Committee has also commented on the resignation agreement between the Defence and Major General Rosén. At the hearing, different views were expressed on what has happened - this is also reflected in this debate. Leave it, but I agree with what others have said - and as the Minister for Defence has also said - that a passport in this agreement could probably have been worded differently. It is important to stress that, of course, the general freedom of expression also applies to the defence staff. That means that you can also participate in a public discussion about priorities and views about the defence -- of course you can. And if you choose to read the agreement as some people have done, it can be understood as a -- let's say -- intervention in the general freedom of expression. Let me stress that I assume without further notice that this was not the purpose of the agreement, but that one should have formulated something different, I think everyone sees that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e547	The position of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee of the Storting in this matter deals with three different areas: firstly, the handling of the medical situation of the Norwegian forces in Afghanistan; secondly, the armed forces in Afghanistan; and thirdly, the resignation of Major General Leif Sverre Rosén as head of the Defence Sanitation. The security of the soldiers during foreign operations has been my top priority since I took over as Minister of Defence. It was actively working in the Sanitary Service to obtain agreements that could provide sufficient and predictable access to surgeons to the Stabilisation Unit in Meymaneh after the closure of the Norwegian Field Hospital in Mazar-e Sharif. It worked with agreements with other countries, but this work did not lead to it. In this respect, I would like to repeat what I said earlier in the Stortinget, both in plenary and in the hearing of the Control Committee, namely that, in retrospect, I would like to have taken the initiative towards the Medical Association and the Minister of Health and Care at an earlier stage, as the Committee on Control also points out in its position. But it was always working with solutions that we believed would have an effect. I would also like to stress that I myself have had a strong commitment in the ministry to succeed in precisely medical coverage through many measures, both infrastructure measures, which were necessary to get doctors in place, and to get doctors to Afghanistan. I would also like to stress that the medical coverage was never below the level of ambition underlying the decision to deploy the forces in Meymaneh. I have also noticed that the Control and Constitutional Committee believes that I should at an earlier stage inform the Stortinget about the challenges related to the safety and sanitary situation in Afghanistan, including medical coverage. However, I would like to make it clear that when the Stortinget was not informed about this matter, it was not to hold back information, but rather on the basis of an assessment that the safety and sanitary situation had been considered as sound overall. Had the head of defense at any time meant anything else, I would of course immediately inform the Storting about it. However, when an overall committee says that the Storting should have been informed of the current situation in the past, I will, of course, deal with it and ensure that in the future the Storting gets the level of detail of the information on the ongoing operations that Stortinget wants, as I also stressed in the hearing. The second main point of the position of the Control and Constitutional Committee concerns the armed forces of sanitary personnel in Afghanistan related to the provisions of the Geneva Conventions. I share the Committee's assessment of the need for thorough training and clear legislation in relation to the practice of conventions. I also fully agree with the committee that it is a matter of course that Norwegian forces comply with the Geneva Conventions. As regards the last issue in the Committee's position, namely the relationship of resignation between the Defence and Major General Leif Sverre Rosén, I note that the Committee refers to the point of the termination agreement relating to the confidentiality of the parties. As I also said in the open hearing of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the wording of Rosén's retirement agreement could be suitable for misinterpretation. However, the Chief of Defence has stated that it has never been intended to restrict Rosén’s general freedom of expression, but only to facilitate the most orderly management of the health of the defence during Rosén’s period of leave. I agree with the Committee that this point of the agreement could have been worded differently in favour. Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to briefly explain developments in the medical situation in Afghanistan after I, in a reply to the representative Højbräten, briefed the Stortingen on this February 5th this year. The temporary surgeonship agreement with the Medical Association has met the expectations we had at the time of the conclusion, and secured until 1 April full coverage of surgeons in Meymaneh. For other medical categories, too, this is currently good coverage. From 1 April of this year, medical conditions under the Special Agreement for International Operations shall be granted, where the Medical Association has concluded a collective agreement in line with the agreements concluded for other categories of personnel. In the longer term, we are working to recruit up to 24 surgeons and anaesthetics in cooperation with civil health companies. So far, 20 posts in four hospitals are advertised under the authority of this scheme. These doctors undertake to serve in foreign operations up to three months per year. years in a five-year period. In addition, we are working on a collaborative solution with Macedonia, which, if we succeed, can at times relieve the need for Norwegian specialist health professionals in Afghanistan. The provision of health care to Norwegian health professionals in Afghanistan is therefore now and in the coming period at a satisfactory level. With regard to the safety situation of Norwegian personnel in Afghanistan, I would also like to point out the significant improvement that occurred last week by the fact that an air medicine evacuation unit with three helicopters became operational in Meymaneh. That, as in Norway, there will be days when weather and climate make it impossible to fly, must not overshadow the fact that here we have had a strong improvement in the evacuation opportunities in Meymaneh. I would also like to take the opportunity to mention that we are currently actively working on finding alternative air transport routes into and out of Afghanistan if it would be necessary to make changes in relation to today's arrangements. Finally, I would like to underline three points: firstly, our forces in Afghanistan have never been without medical coverage during this period, even though for periods there have been a lack of certain categories of specialist health professionals. Secondly, the medical situation is only one of a number of factors affecting the overall health and safety situation. And thirdly, our managers in the operating area have continuously adapted the operating pattern to the sanitation resources we've always had available. In total, it has therefore been assessed by the Defence Manager that the total amount of sanitary aid granted to Norwegian departments during the period has been sound. I would like to emphasise again that the security of the personnel has had the greatest focus in the period I have been Minister of Defence. However, it is important that we, as decision-makers, recognise that no matter how much we do, there will be a risk associated with such operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e577	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e580	I would like to ask the Council of State a question about the relationship with Major General Leif Sverre Rosén. The hearing revealed that the defence was satisfied with the agreement that was signed between 2 and 6 July. When asked if he was satisfied, he answered the following: ‘No, of course not. Well, we're human. And I'm going to live on in a community, I'm going straight back. With such a paper, where it says that I've been fired, how do you think it's to deal with it? You feel that you have to go to the ground and look down when you go to the store." So it's the way the major general, who has served the defense over a long life and done his best to tell us about the lack of sanitation in the defense, felt like getting that agreement. Does the Council of State think it's in place with a never-ending apology for the treatment of the Major General?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e592	With regard to what has been said earlier in this case, I want to relate to the agreement that was concluded between the Defence and Major General Rosén. I perceive, after all, that there was an agreement between two parties, and relate to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e598	I referred in my post to the criticism that the committee is included in the vote, and I feel reason to take up again one of these points that I do not think the Council of State has given a satisfactory response to. It goes into this with why you haven't given information to Stortinget in the past. She then said something about the fact that the security situation in Afghanistan was considered satisfactory, but if the head of defence had told me that there was a need to do more, she would of course have given information to the Stortinget. But it was well known, there was knowledge about it in the department, both because of the repeated call of the Defence Sanity that more effort was needed here, more personnel were needed here, and because of the difficulty of recruiting. And the deterioration in the security situation was well known. So here it seems like the council is trying to say that you were in good faith. But does not the Council of State admit that it is she who is really responsible for this, and that she should have informed about it when the knowledge was present in the department?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e605	This is also a matter that can be easier to evaluate in retrospect. I would like to stress that we have always had games in Meymaneh. For shorter periods, for some single weeks, it has not been the necessary specialist medical service. There will be an assessment when you want to inform about something that is perceived as a defect - should you come to Stortinget every time there is a situation? What matters to me is the Chief of Defense's assessment of whether or not the entire operation we're conducting is sound or not. The head of defense has also repeatedly said that this with sufficient personnel is of course one of the factors. Then again, I would like to show that we have taken many initiatives in the area of sanitation, not least the agreement we have concluded with Germany, which has enabled us to borrow German doctors if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e616	I want to go back to my previous line and my question. The Council of State points out that here there are two parties that have concluded an agreement that she will take note of, or inform, as if there were two foreign parties. She has just referred earlier to the integrated strategic joint management. As Minister of Defence, she has authority of instruction and responsibility for what is going on in the Defence. The Council of State is the head of one party. And when the other party, Rosén, pronounces himself as he has done in the hearing, that he feels kicked, and that he must go with his bowed head in the shop as a result of the picture that the Defense drew of him in the public room, and then you are familiar with the committee position that exists here, doesn't the Council of State think it's in place with a complaint to Rosén, so that he can go again to the store with his raised head, which he deserves?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e623	I have to refer again to the agreement that was concluded with Rosén, which was a permit agreement. There had also been a discussion in advance between Rosén and the head of defence about a wish on the part of Rosén to take out a leave. It would have been about that. six months earlier. These are the conditions in this case that I believe I can decide on. I saw that agreement as an agreement that had been concluded between two parties, with whom I was then informed that Rosén was very satisfied, and which also gave him an opportunity for the professional update that he had asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e628	I want to go back to what was my question, and that went on the orientation -- and the lack of that -- to the Stortinge on the medical situation. I just want to give the Council of State the opportunity to complete its answer, because I don't think the Council of State answered my question about her responsibility in this situation. It might seem that she was in good faith, that everything was very well, but that in the department you knew that was not the case. Does the Council of State see that it is her responsibility, and that she should have given the Stortinget an active information about this at an earlier time?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e633	Of course, it is my responsibility that we have sufficient medical coverage. Of course it's my responsibility. At the same time, the starting point was that this was one of several relationships. We were never without doctors, we were never below the level that was when we took over this PRT from the British. On the contrary, we have had a better medical response. In many areas, we would have taken action to improve the situation. We had taken a lot of initiatives, we had focus on this all the time. And then you always think that you're going to succeed in getting the necessary stable medical coverage. In retrospect, we see that it didn't work out. I wish, as I said, that I had taken initiative with the Minister of Health earlier. When it comes to information for Stortinget, it has never been my intention to hold back information. If this had been a situation that would have stopped us from being able to operate in total, I would of course have informed the Storting about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e647	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e652	Just a few notes. Carl I. Hagen and Per-Kristian Foss described the position as «strong criticism» by the Council of State. Konrad Adenauer said that we're all living under the same sky, but everyone doesn't have the same horizon, and we're obviously reading a little bit different things out of the setting. I just want to stress, as Mr. Øystein Djupedal pointed out, that from our point of view we do not perceive the critical comments that lie there, on some points, as ‘strong criticism’. We don't think that would be the basis for that. But when a matter arises that gets political attention, and as it has been difficult to solve, one will always be able to point out that one could formally go to the bodies of the Stortinge with information earlier. So Carl I. Hagen said that he perceived this as an uprising for Rosén. I just want to stress that what was also in place when the matter was expanded in the media, was a kind of implicit responsibility position on the health of the defense because you failed. I have never shared that assessment for my part. Efforts were made for a long time to get things done, but they did not reach the goal. And then a new grip had to be taken. This does not mean that you have pointed to the health of the Defense and its leader as a scapegoat. The complainant also said in his statement that the purpose was not to find scapegoats. So just some reflections about what Carl I. Hagen said that the Stortinge must be able to have its formation or deal with matters if you are in state-owned businesses doing irresponsible staffing. Yes, we agree. But I think you should be very careful about going into individual matters and making an assessment of who might be right, and who might be wrong. I think that's a rather demanding assessment. When Carl I. Hagen says that you see a pattern in the defense -- not only in this case, but also in other matters -- where you don't meet any understanding from their superiors, but just criticism, I don't know where Carl I. Hagen has his experience in human resources from. I think everyone who's been close to having jobs where you've had it knows that it's quite demanding. So finally just to the representative Foss, who I think mixed up signed and the case rapporteur when he said he disagreed with my name of the media dramaturgy, and thought that the media had good coverage for what they wrote. What I pointed out was statements from two representatives of the Progress Party who suggested early in the case that this could end with mistrust proposals. It was a starting point from the jump that I believe was a lot higher than the impact we have had on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e667	Let me begin by regretting that I confused Ola T. Lånke, who is the case rapporteur, and the representative Hansen. I am completely behind everything like Mr. Loan has said in this case...
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e672	Per-Kristian Foss may be able to take the second speaker. I think that's much more dressy!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e676	On the other hand, it was so nice to look at the president! Therefore, to the representative Hansen: Whether you have the horizon or the sky as a reference frame, I would say that the criticism that is addressed in this position, I see as strong, both in the wording and in the fact that a collective committee is behind it. What would be stronger? A mistrust proposal would be stronger. But that would have been voted down, and the Council of State would have gone into a defensive position -- that expression might be misunderstood, but the Council of State would defend all its actions. Here we see that the Council of State has now said: Yes, I should have done it differently. First of all, as she said, the privacy statement could have been made differently. Second, she said that she had wished that she had taken the initiative to reinforce the sanitary situation much earlier. Third, she said that she should probably inform the Stortinget at an earlier time. She tries to explain why she didn't, but she takes note that the Storting had wanted more information and at an earlier time, and takes it into consideration. So here we get by the case rapporteur, just to repeat it, a wise attitude and good wording, and then we feel that the Council of State is changing its practice, and I think that is more important for a control committee than getting the proposal down.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e685	The Council of State recently maintained in the reply that she relates to two parties, two parties she has nothing to do with, and has no responsibility for. When one party is the Defence and Defence Department, I wonder very much about it. She is, in fact, herself the top responsible in both contexts, and she is the one party. So she insists that Rosén was satisfied with the agreement, despite the fact that I quoted from his reply during the hearing. I can also quote from another answer he gave, when it came to whether he repented a little of this: ‘It is possible that it is critical, but such a situation needs to be experienced. It has to be experienced. And even though I have had very good support from many teams, I have to say that it is not--in retrospect, of course, you could think more rationally. But I'm no more than a human being, and I also felt, to say it, that I had little support, so I didn't get any advice, I went from office to office, from the HR director to the head of defense, and then I also learned that you had to be aware that if I didn't leave then, or sought relief, there was someone who would use stronger tools." It is this staff policy that I am asking questions about. It is the supreme authority of the State Council. She is also at the top of the press that the Admiral Raxen has referred to publicly, and as Arne Morten Greenseter mentioned, when they were pressured to seek leave, and for this, with Karlsvik, who has been persecuted for two and a half years, won in two trials and finally got a very favorable settlement for him, a total defeat for the Council of State and the Department's real leadership. We also know about other things. We had one on the TV 2 news yesterday, about two of the employees of Karlsvik, who for two years have been waiting to receive a response from the Defense for what their position is. It's a frustration that we have a lot of signals about growing in Defense, especially in Maritime Defense. Then I think it is frightening that the Council of State is actually expressing that she has not learned anything from all of these matters, but continues to show that apparently Leif Sverre Rosén was satisfied, and she talks about two parties as if these are two parties she has nothing to do with. So one is the Defence Department, which now has an integrated strategic direction in which the Council of State is the top responsible. And if anyone is going to get the order to have the proper treatment of employees, it's the responsibility of the Council of State. I think it's sad that she obviously doesn't take that responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e697	I will not comment on Hagen’s comments, but I would like to comment on Per-Kristian Foss’ comments, because it should not be a summary of this debate. That Per-Kristian Foss wants to see it the way he does, that this is a strong criticism of the Council of States, I understand, that's the role of the opposition. But at the same time it's in this, and I think that Per-Christian Foss is the foremost one to understand, that as a position, we would never have been in this criticism if it were perceived as a strong criticism. Because there is no basis in the case for strong criticism, but there is a basis for improving medical preparedness in Afghanistan, and we have contributed to this through this case. That means that we have now established agreements that make our soldiers in Afghanistan always have a good surgical readiness, which they did not have for a short period of time. What also emerges from the case is that it has been constantly medically prepared, so that in the case as such, if you look at it from the point of view that the case exploded in the media, a reasonable, balanced conclusion has been reached. The case rapporteur, Lånke, has done an exemplary job in this way in balancing the different considerations involved. That in a retirement agreement with Rosén an unfortunate wording has been used, which both the Council of State and we, an overall committee, see should have been different, yes it is a very small and limited matter when one thinks about how large and extensive this matter was initially, and how much attention it received at the time it exploded. We are very pleased that this matter has come to pass that we now have a better medical preparedness for our soldiers in Afghanistan, and I believe that both the defence management and the defence minister, and also the Stortinge, not least the defence committee, I believe, who have certainly followed this matter with interest, now at all times will be more considerate and attentive as to the fact that medical preparedness and health preparedness are very important components when choosing to send soldiers abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e706	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2826]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e722	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e731	Most people react with disgust when it comes to sexual mutilation. We view it as what it really is -- a criminal act and an abuse of children. Evidence of this is that the entire Health and Welfare Committee shares the deep concern of the proposers that girls in Norway are being sexually mutilated. We know that female genital mutilation is prohibited and punishable in Norway, and that practicing it is contrary to fundamental human rights, the UN Convention on Women and the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, as it emerges from this attitude. The government has recently presented a new and comprehensive action plan on gender mutilation. The action plan presented has worked from seven different departments concerned by this - health care, child protection, school, kindergartens, police and the groups concerned - all important actors to prevent gender harm. It is recognised that better public cooperation, more competence and effective enforcement of the law are essential. I think we can connect to that. The majority indicate in the setting of the Government’s initiative to involve other important actors in this work. Money has been spent on the prevention and awareness-raising work of non-governmental organisations in settings where appropriate. The government has also increased its efforts to combat gender impairment by 18 million. kr during the period. The entire Committee emphasises in particular what the action plan proposes to strengthen international efforts to prevent gender discrimination. It's very important because WHO figures show that as many as 3 million girls are exposed to sexual harassment every year, and that's cruel numbers. Through this action plan, gender mutilation work will be even more clearly anchored by national, regional and municipal authorities. The Committee considers that Norway is thus contributing to zero tolerance for this serious crime against children. It is clear from the case that there are a number of proposals from the minority in the Committee. They're going to report it on seagoing shipping. The proposals are, in my opinion, made with the best intentions and are an expression of an original commitment to the matter. I don't feel that there's any real discussion and disagreement in the Committee on the intention to prevent and prevent sexual mutilation. However, a majority, consisting of the parties to the government and the Right, believe that the intentions of the proposers are respected in the action plan against gender discrimination, and that is why we do not support those proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e744	Female genital mutilation is prohibited in Norway. The penalty for mutilating girls is imprisonment up to three years and up to eight years if the mutilation leads to death or significant damage to body or health. Ergo, that's where the penalty is. The challenge, on the other hand, is that it is difficult to detect and combat sexual mutilation. Gender impairment as such has never been legally tried in Norway. This is a cross of thought. We have a theoretical law with little or no practical significance, when both magnification and government care too little about them. It's sad for the individual, in this case the girl child. It is sad as to the willingness to stand for a good integration policy. You talk nice about human rights, but you really don't do much to fulfill them. It is the youngest girls who are most vulnerable and who are most often exposed to mutilation. Today it is estimated that we in Norway have approx. 6 700 girls from high-risk countries. The deciduous largest group comes from the high-risk country of Somalia, and when I mention that country in particular, it is based on the fact that prevalence of sexual injury in Somalia is up to 100 pst., according to the World Health Organisation. The bands of the country of origin are often dense, both mentally and physically, and many are regularly visiting the country of origin. It is therefore not easy to detect sexual mutilation committed in Norway or abroad. Culture and family traditions stand strong, and it is not easy for anyone to break out of environments where these traditions stand strongly. The Progress Party agrees with the intentions of the proposers, but does not believe that prevention measures are sufficient to detect gender harm. Sexual mutilation is an abuse and a criminal act that must be taken very seriously, and therefore good concrete measures must be put in place to detect and punish those who are overreachers. I record that no other batch wants to introduce a mandatory health check of the female child in the 4-year-old age, but how can you reveal anything about this mutilation? It is a tragedy for the individual, and it is also a tragedy for a society to stand still on the sidelines and see that defenceless girls must carry out this mutilation. It is also sad that one of those in government, who called for mandatory health check, Karita Bekkemelm, is no longer the Council of State and can defend such an attitude. In this context, we are promoting proposals to extend the compulsory health survey for children with a view to increasing the coverage of gender mutilation. We want to make parents responsible for the damage that has been done and revealed. Furthermore, the Progress Party wishes the professional groups covered by the elimination obligation not only to have an obligation to avert the mutilation itself but also to have an obligation to report and report the situation. We want to take the initiative in international cooperation so that it can be possible to prosecute offences against sex injury, and to change today's legislation so that criminal offences abroad can be prosecuted, even in cases where sexual mutilation is not prohibited. The Norwegian law states that participation in sexual mutilation is a criminal offence. That is exactly why we are promoting this proposal. With this, I will address the proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e761	The representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e764	All those who are aware of what sexual mutilation involves must be shaken by such atrocities carried out against innocent girls. Anyone who has heard the screams of the victims of the cruel custom feels a strong urge to do something immediately to prevent this. I am therefore pleased that an overall committee is behind the proposalers' intention to combat sexual mutilation. In 2002, the Co-operation Board presented an action plan containing 33 concrete measures to combat gender harm. Most of the measures were aimed at enhancing the skills of auxiliaries in schools and in other public institutions. The goal was that more people should be aware of the problem and therefore take action to prevent girls from being subjected to this torture, as it actually is. In addition, a significant effort was made on the OK care & knowledge measure, on gender harm. This measure focused primarily on the settings in which sexual mutilation was practised and aimed at preventing it through information and dialogue. The government of Stoltenberg has commendably followed up this work on a new action plan with many good actions. In this area, however, there is a danger that we will become more concerned with showing political power than with finding out what actually helps to prevent gender abuse. In the name of action and good intentions, it is easy to resort to symbolic policies. We also need to be aware that, after fighting injustice, we can commit a new wrong. In my opinion, compulsory screening of all Norwegian girls is a measure that will contribute to thousands of girls being subjected to unnecessary and unpleasant examinations, despite the fact that they are never in danger of being sexually mutilated. Then one could perhaps claim that this would be justified if we had succeeded in preventing some girls from being circumcised. However, I doubt the effect of such an action, all the time the parents of those who are actually at risk can effectively avoid control. This is also pointed out in the final report of the OK project, which was aimed at changing attitudes in settings where sexual mutilation is practised. I share the intention of the proposers to ensure that both health professionals and potential offenders are given more information about sexual mutilation and the serious consequences of this. This was a key instrument in the CSR action plan, but the measures were mainly targeted at population groups where this is practised. After further consideration, the Right considers that the second proposal in the vote is in line with such a targeted information campaign, and we will therefore support it. The entire Norwegian criminal law is based on the assumption that Norwegian law is known to all as long as the rules are properly advertised. The fact that one claims not to know the criminal provisions does not give exemption. On the basis of this, we find it unnatural to sign that certain criminal provisions are known. In that case, some groups of men should be asked to sign that they know that rape and violence in close relationships are punishable, and in the opinion of the Right, this is completely unnecessary. Lack of knowledge of what is punishable in Norway is in any case no excuse for committing criminal offences. There should be no doubt that Norwegian society regards sexual harassment as a very serious and criminal offence and that those who commit or contribute to this criminal act should be held responsible. One of the measures taken on the initiative of the Cooperative Government is the imposition of a criminal sanctions obligation on a number of groups of public servants suspected of sexual harassment. From the Right, we clearly believe that public aid agencies should report to the police if they have a concrete suspicion. I notice that representatives from the Left and Christian People's Party now believe that the threshold for reporting suspicions is too high. I think it is important in this context to remember a central principle of legal certainty, namely that one is innocent until the opposite is proven. We cannot allow large groups without further justification to be considered as potential attackers. Therefore, the Right will insist that there is a concrete suspicion of the obligation to notify. The fight against genital mutilation must be conducted within the framework of the rule of law. Right-wing believe that the fight against gender mutilation must be waged in the settings in which it is practised, through information and discussion with those who consider putting their children to this. We must make clear that this is a serious criminal act against which Norwegian society will react strongly. However, it is important to distinguish between our own need to express moral indifference and what effectively helps to prevent sexual mutilation. In this way, it is worth noting the conclusion of the final report of the OK project, which states: ‘Not threats, but information and dialogue with women and men from countries that practice circumcision is the only way to overcome this cruel custom.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e786	The media debate on gender mutilation in 2000 and 2001 was marked by a lot of noise and sharp contrasts. Much good work has been done since the first action plan was presented in 2000 by the Stoltenberg I Government. It was subsequently revised by the Bondevik government and put into practice in 33 points. Young girls like Kadra and Saynab became known throughout the country, and they became role models for many young girls across all cultures. In particular, Kadra came into focus and experienced more prizes for her courage to stand up to cultural traditions. That this cost her a lot, we know. In an interview, she said that during a period after the Kingdom TV program, she lost one friend every day. A former friend wrote that she was ashamed to have known her. Saynab also worked on this problem, and in 2005 she published her own book - a book that makes the impression, about life in Hargeisa and Norway, about sleep and love and about being circumcised. It's now as much as eight years since Kadra's TV program woke up abruptly, I'd say, the Norwegian community for a problem with which little experience has been gained. I think a lot of parties have drawn close to each other since then, and that it's more open today to work to combat traditions like sex mutilation. But we have to recognize that it's still challenging and difficult. Much positive has happened in recent years: The situation in the home countries of parents has changed with greater transparency about the problem. Several countries of origin have themselves introduced laws prohibiting sexual mutilation. Knowledge of adverse effects has increased both physically and psychologically. Knowledge of the prohibition in Norway and its justification have reached large groups. The importance of dialogue with relevant target groups leads not only to increased knowledge but also to changes in attitudes and behaviour. The Bondevik II government chose, as the representative Sjøli said, to organise the work with the Government's actions through its own OK project - care and knowledge against female circumcision. Experience after the end of the project period was very positive. The project staff did a lot of work. A lot of material has been produced that, through different channels, was intended to reach different target groups and is also available today. It was written material, films, plays, local radio programs, music, conversation groups, comics, etc. Not least there were also dialogues, meetings and conferences with the auxiliaries and with immigrant groups as part of this project. The OK project also had an underlying local project in Oslo. This should have a broader focus than the national project. They should look more generally at the situation in Somalia and the situation for women and children in particular. The Oslo part of the OK project connects to our parental guidance project, exploiting the development of methods in parental work against the work of immigrant families. This was very successful. Therefore, work in this area was continued and extended to several municipalities. The experience gained from the three-year project after the project period was passed on through the ordinary structures of the authorities, with the Ministry of Health as the top professional officer. However, it is important that good action plans give priority to work from top-level policy. It is very positive that the Government has presented a great plan, which I believe can actually be even better if the proposals in today's Document No. Eight proposals are included. They'll do some of the good things even better, because they're more eaten and more concrete. They are also not identical to the proposals and measures contained in the Government’s action plan, as the previous one, by the representative Sonja Irene Sjøli, showed in an excellent way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e823	The day's revision last year had an entry on sexual mutilation that shocked many. Because even if many people call it a crop, they have nothing to do with cropping. What was described was the heartless mutilation of the genital organs of young girls. We in the Left thought that it is now urgent to introduce new measures to end sexual mutilation in Norway. The left is therefore asking for this as the basis for today's debate. I'm glad that a group committee shares Left's concern that girls get sexually mutilated in Norway. Nevertheless, the challenge is not to stand up and say that we think the practice is heartless and outrageous against Norwegian law, but what we can do further to prevent young girls from being subjected to this abuse. The challenge is to put in place concrete actions. Planar is good. We need holistic plans that last many years. The government's action plan is good, but important measures were not taken. The left is disappointed that our submission remained in the Committee for so long, over three and a half years - probably so that the Government could come up with its own action plan. The left's suggestion is that one should approach the problem from multiple sides. Dialogue and information are important, but we also need to impose stricter requirements and sanctions. One of the most important things is to punish those who break today's ban. We haven't, eleven years after the law came into force - as the representative Fredriksen was in on - got a single missing judgment on sexual mutilation. It's too bad. I have no doubt that the police want to prioritize the prosecution of these offences, but to initiate investigations, the police are entirely dependent on messages from the environment itself - health care, school or kindergarten - on assault. Therefore, the Left wishes to introduce a notification obligation for the professional groups that are currently obliged to rescind. Other criminal acts that are being done against children today are not necessarily covered by a court order. To say it a little brutally: Cutting into a girl's sex is not anything less serious than a broken arm? One might think that an obligation to report the infringement, regardless of whether the patient wants to do so himself, would damage the trust between patients and healthcare professionals. We see, of course, that a reporting obligation may have adverse consequences for the confidence of certain occupational groups and girls who have suffered sexual mutilation. We in the Left nevertheless believe that gender mutilation is such a serious offense that targeted measures, which involve reporting, can be defended. As we wrote in our presentation, something has been done in the work against sexual mutilation. One of the most important things is that we got our own law, and that we got a decision on withdrawal in 2004. It was very important, but the fact that girls are still mutilated in Norway means that it's not good enough. We in the Left therefore believe that it is important that the threshold for when the obligation to cancel falls must be lowered. Many who are covered by this obligation are simply uncertain as to whether or not to notify them, and then it often turns out that they leave it. But it's better with a warning too much than one too little. In addition, the police have to assess whether there is anything in the tip, not the individual teacher or the socionomist. I note that the Progress Party is on its own in the Committee on the Request for compulsory child-care examinations of girls in Norway in order to prevent sexual mutilation. We've discussed that question. Our conclusion is that such a mandatory and anti-truth agent is too general, it is too poor to meet and is not an effective instrument in the fight against sexual mutilation. That's why we don't go into it. I mentioned earlier in my post that information and detention campaigns are important in the fight against gender mutilation. We support the Government's action plan, but we believe that, in addition, our proposals will strengthen this important work. I take up the submissions as Left, together with the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, stand behind, and presented as the Left and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e846	The representative Gunvald Ludvigsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e849	Female genital mutilation is a serious assault, which can cause serious and lasting health damage. It is an abuse that needs to be combated in several ways, as we see it, with a focus on prevention and attitude change, and we need to provide health care to those affected. This perspective has also been used as a basis for Regeringen's action plan on gender equality, which has been discussed by many, which we launched on 5 February this year. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the brave, handsome women who have stood up and given this matter a face in different ways. It has, as several other speakers have pointed out, been tough for many, but it has helped to make the attention around this -- and I think also the opportunity to do something in this area -- now is considerably greater. I'm concerned about what the representative Sjøli and several speakers have been about, that we have to do things that actually work, not things that work in the opposite direction. Then the government is very concerned that we have to do it in dialogue with those groups who know what this is about. I think that's the only way to end this. I have noticed that the proposers also pay attention to the work on attitudes and information on what gender impact leads to, and I agree with that quite a bit. Action for this purpose has been followed up in the action plan, and I have also noticed what has been said in the vote on this. There is no doubt that health and school health services are central to the prevention of gender harm. It's been a topic for many years, but that's, as we see it, need to put even more emphasis on this. Information measures for parents shall be strengthened in the context of routine health checks for infants and young children, including in the school start-up study. Health centres and school health services are also to set up several youth, women and people groups. Furthermore, health centres and school health services shall carry out information work for young people related to guidance in life, sexuality and prevention. The procedures for cooperation between hospitals, outpatient clinics, doctors, midwives and community health centres are being reviewed, because it is important that we have procedures that ensure that we actually catch up with the women who have suffered sexual mutilation, so that they are offered the necessary health care. It also helps to prevent other children in the family from being subjected to the same abuses. The lifting of competences is therefore essential. It includes seafaring staff both in health stations and in school health services, but also in child protection, in kindergartens and in schools etc. There is now an easy-to-understand information material to be used in schools and in the health sector and in many different venues. With regard to the question of underlife surveys, the Government has now launched a survey to gain more knowledge of the extent of female sexual mutilation in Norway. That mission has been given to the Institute for Social Research, which is scheduled to deliver its report to us in May this year. The survey will also include facts about whether the severance obligation is used, whether the information obligation on child protection is used, and whether gender mutilation of girls may have a downward trend in Norway. The results of this project will, of course, be an important basis for further targeted actions. In the case of an obituary, it will only be able to establish that the infringement may have occurred. It will not prevent the infringement. We also know that in some places this type of assault also occurs in older age groups. It's not like if you take a check while the kids are young, you've kind of made sure that the mutilation won't happen, because in some places this continues until the girls are at a ready age. Then at least one has to ask himself the question: is the study, first of all, correct? I have to say I'm somewhat doubtful about it. The government has not taken a decision. Secondly, do we achieve what we want through such a study, and do we really believe that for many years one must have surveys of all girls of certain ages to try to figure this out? We are committed to both preventing and helping those who have been subjected to this attack. It is, of course, very important to make sure that the laws and regulations we have - even with regard to the issue of reporting obligations, which everyone must be very aware of - are actively used, and that one does so anywhere in order to prevent even more girls from being subjected to this kind of terrible assault.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e870	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e874	If you have to have several sub-life studies, there will be reasonable stigmatisation for those involved. We have a law today. It doesn't work, it's just theoretical. We know that sexual mutilation has never been legally tried. At the same time, we know that this has been done in Norwegian girls living in Norway. How does the Council of State think that gender mutilation should be identified and brought to justice when the Council of State does not want a mandatory four-year-old child health check? We know that we have had legislation and information for a long time. The same applies to health centres and health sisters. How do you detect this if you don't do a survey?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e881	In this area, as in many other areas, I have more faith in dialogue in a broad sense. For example, we can make sure that the girls who have already been circumcised visit health care. That way they will be helped to get a better life. In this way, it will also be possible to prevent, for example: Younger siblings are exposed to it. In fact, there is an obligation to notify when it comes to preventing interception. We are not sure whether to use it to a large extent, and that is of the questions we get answers to in the report that comes in May. It is also the case that child protection has a clear reporting obligation if there is doubt as to whether there is sufficient care for the child and if it is possible to avert it in that way. So competence is very central. That's where I think there's still a way to go-- in all terms. As I said, the government has not taken a decision on compulsory sub-life surveys, but is probably somewhat doubtful as to whether it is the most appropriate approach to get something done in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e890	The left has, of course, agreed to introduce a notification obligation for the professional groups that are currently obliged to rescind. The proposal has not been heard in the government parties. I did not hear the Council comment on that proposal today either. I have registered that the Minister of Agriculture and Food has launched a reporting obligation in connection with animal abuse, so my question to the Council of State is quite simple: Is not reporting obligation at least as relevant in the context of the abuse of young girls as in the context of animal abuse?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e897	I have to say that I think there was a slightly sought-after comparison between animal abuse and the gross abuse of young girls we are talking about here. But it is already a duty to notify today when it is a matter of preventing. There's no doubt about it. But there must be justified suspicion that someone was going to try those very things. And when that's done, it's also that child protection has a reporting obligation, if you think there's a need for it. But because we've been a little bit unsure whether this is actually being followed up everywhere, we've asked that this needs to be reviewed. The Institute for Social Research is going through it now. I'll get a report in May. If it should then prove that this is not being practiced in the way the law requires, it is clear that the government is prepared, at any time, to make proposals for the Storting - and then I understand it will be a stir to make this grip even tighter. Because I feel that it's of common interest that we're doing what we can to stop these gross abuses against young girls.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e906	The council thought it was sought to compare this that animals have greater legal protection than children. But I want to draw the question a little bit further. When this matter was up last summer, we heard a number of comments from health professionals, from health nurses and others who met this in their daily work. They expressed an attitude that I see as out of mind. It was said that these children would probably have bigger problems if they reported this than if they didn't report it, even when it was averting. It is clear that if a child, for example, being exposed to incest or violence, notification of it will also lead to problems and discomforts. But it's still right. So my question is, will the Council of State make sure that health professionals realize that it is actually right to report from, sail if it leads to discomforts and conflicts in a family, because it is actually wrong what is done?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e911	Yes, we are concerned that the reporting obligation that applies should be complied with. There's no doubt about it. We're also ready, if you need it, to sharpen it even more. This also applies to health professionals. So I know, and we've heard some examples of it, that some young girls have visited health professionals and hospitals and said that if it goes on, they won't get the help they really need to get a better life. It just says something about the world not always as simple as we would want it to be. But the answer to the representative of Skei Grande here is that the laws and regulations, including in the case of reporting obligations, are also supposed to apply to health professionals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e918	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e923	In fact, the vast majority of countries in the world have a ban on sexual mutilation. It's just that there are so many countries that don't enforce it. If you come from a country where you know that the National Assembly has passed a law against sexual harassment, but everyone is doing it, it can't seem surprising to come to Norway, where you have a national assembly that has decided that this is not a law, but no one is convicted of having done it. That's why it's actually quite important that you pay particular attention to the fact that we intend to enforce this law. Comparing this, as the Right did, with the fact that it is not permissible to commit violence or steal from others or anything like that - at that level - when you are asked to sign that this is actually a prohibition that we in Norway intend to enforce, is an expression of lack of cultural knowledge. It's a lack of cultural skills if you don't realize that there's actually a big difference. In most cultures, violence and theft are prohibited, but this is a special law paragraph because it is being enforced differently. It is independent of religion - just look at Egypt, where Christian girls are circumcised or sexually mutilated as often as Muslim girls. It is said that it must not be made too easy to notify. This summer I got many telephones from teachers who thought they would have a vacation while they were lying on the beach - but they were largely worried: Should I have said from? Then my answer to all the teachers is that it is their job to say from, and then the police will assess whether it is right or not. Teachers should not be responsible for their summer holidays. The responsibility is for the police to have, it is for the police to assess whether it is right or not. We're not opening up to a community of people, but we're opening up a society where children have to feel that adults care about them, including teachers. The grip the Progress Party is doing in relation to girls, I don't think it's particularly targeted, when we know how many of the girls actually are when these attacks happen. I think we have to make sure that we get some convictions after an infringement has occurred, and not just care about stopping it before - because we actually have to show that this is a law that this Parliament intends to enforce, unlike many other parliaments around the world. So I'm actually a little tired of the Progress Party. For the Progress Party is obviously so concerned about disagreeing with the Left in integration actions that when we actually agree, the most important thing is to disagree. Here there are a number of good measures that we have put in place, but which are then formulated as our own proposals. I can't help but see the difference between the last two proposals and understand why it wasn't possible to go for our original one.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e936	It is an important topic that is being addressed here today, and it is commendable that the representatives of the Left have put forward the proposals. There are very many of the proposals that are close to what is mentioned in the action plan, and there are shades of action in the action plan and measures proposed here, presented by the proposers. I guess the main reason for the shade is how wide we're going to assume that it's necessary to go out, that's how big the problem is. It is dangerous to assume in the debate that this is taking place on a very large scale in Norway today, because there may also be another reason why no one has been taken for it and no one has yet been convicted for it, namely that it has not been possible to get access to someone like this after they have come to Norway. So I'm looking, like the others here in the hall, I think and I hope, desperate for what's the best and most targeted approach angle in terms of doing something about this problem, and getting something done concretely. There are some aspects of the action plan from the Ministry, of interaction, of specialist health services and of local health services - points 27, 29 and 30 for those who know the action plan, of how to interact. There I would particularly like to go into a dimension that I believe should be taken into account in terms of the points in the plan. It's about how we're going to find these families where this problem exists. Well, I think this will primarily apply to the families that come to Norway, where the mother is circumcised from before. It is unlikely that one will start with such a tradition in Norway, after coming here, if the mother is not circumcised. The mother will often be able to reach in the way we see today, through an offer that has been available since 2002 in Ullevål Hospital. Up to 300 women have been treated and opened, as it says, as a result of sexual mutilation. They have visited the hospital because of problems with urination, problems with menstruation, various pains and, of course, from being opened up for pregnancy and childbirth, and received help. It is important that these women and these families who seek health care in order to receive medical help in the context of sexual mutilation follow up systematically. It is important to use the reporting obligation and to register the women detected during local pregnancy checks and birth control has been subjected to sexual mutilation. It is important that this be coordinated with a reporting obligation to one body, and that a link be set up with these families for years to come where there is an obligation to meet calls and, if necessary, checks, so that we target efforts against these groups where we know that sexual harassment has occurred in the family in the past and where the women have been exposed to it. We have to use the approaches that are operational, and that's what the action plan provides, which I would like to see even more specific input into when you follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e943	It's kind of nice to hear from the rhetorical representative of the Left, Trine Skei Grande, when she claims that the Progress Party is not focused on its policy when it comes to gender mutilation. In fact, we have supported everyone, except one, proposals from the Left that have been submitted. So I don't know if there's anything wrong with the proposals from the Left, or if it's the support from the Progress Party. What I experience as a major problem in this case is that everyone understands that there is no one who initially has an interest in conducting a sex study of baby-sitters at the age of four, although we know that there are also older women who are being circumcised. But unfortunately, if we're going to take it seriously, what alternatives do we have? Because we've been under a law for years. We have run information campaigns about it, which the Progress Party supports and agrees with. But we also see that unfortunately these instruments are not good enough. Despite the fact that both health care nurses and health centres have this as a fixed task, we see that it doesn't work. And then the question is, are we going to lean back in the chair, accept and see that there are violations of human rights in everyday life in Norway, or are we going to try to do something about it? The Party has concluded that the compulsory examination of four-year-olds for the detection of genital mutilation is less harmful than human mutilation. We know from experience that it will happen, and then you have to take it seriously. It's not like -- neither in this case nor in many others -- that you can choose between goods. It's actually that you have to choose between the bottoms, and then you have to pick the least of the bottoms.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e958	It was actually the representative Bohemian who made me take the floor--first, to give him the right one, second, to say he's wrong. First of all, what's wrong. We in the Left have not pointed it out so strongly in today's debate, but our proposal has therefore been very long for consideration, probably pending the action plan. So coming up and saying that our proposal is a repetition of the proposal in the action plan, I think it's a little bit crazy understanding of the order -- just so it's pointed out. We should not be swirled and offended that the proposal has been long, although we might have wished that the treatment of it had gone much faster. What Bohemia is quite right about is that this is an issue that is not being tackled at the borders of the country, but within the environment. It is within the individual environments that real attitudes need to be changed. That's why I think it's so important to get someone convicted -- it's actually a very important symbol in this fight. I, who have worked with this for a long time, have talked to many parents who have fully resolved that they should not do this. But resisting the pressure when they come home on vacation is pretty tough. I have also talked to parents who have experienced that while they have been away, grandparents have suffered quite adult grandchildren. The question is what to say. When you say that this is actually not a law in Norway, you have little to do with it when they say no, neither is it allowed in our country, but no one is convicted of it - nor is anyone in Norway. I'd like to give all the parents who fight that fight -- I know that a lot of parents do it -- backing from the Norwegian legal system, so that they can say that in Norway you're actually in prison for this. There will be a very important grip in this fight. So to the mandatory investigations. I don't think it's an offense. I have to admit that I am of the coals that were subjected to these investigations, and I do not feel in any way that this was a special attack on the part of Dr. Lund. However, the studies are not effective, probably because they are carried out too early. That's my main argument against this. And then it's a pretty massive grip to take into account the effect of it. I think there are a lot of other important steps we can take in relation to these environments. One of the most important is maybe to show that we're a national assembly that means what we're adopting, and that we're actually getting someone judged pretty soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e975	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 2826]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e991	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and will be allocated up to 5 minutes to each batch and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be a possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from the Council of State post within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1000	Today we are dealing with Document No. 8:39 for 2007-2008, proposal for a representative to draw up an action plan on enhanced oil protection. In Stavanger Aftenblad on 20 December 2007 - I repeat: 2007 - it says to read the following: «In Stortinget today, France proposes an additional allocation of SEK 300 million for oil protection. - The release from Statfjord A and last year's tragic accident with MS Server has shown that the government is playing a high game about the country's oil preparedness, says Arne Sortevik [[Frp]] I think that's a strong word. It goes on to say: ‘Frp therefore requires the government to make an action plan for enhanced oil protection and will contribute SEK 300 million to this.’ But it also says: ‘Frp operates so classical populism that it’s almost embarrassing to watch. When the party presented its alternative state budget in the autumn, they did not add a crown to oil protection. Schwarzevik says nothing about where the money may be taken from. He simply fools people with this way of running politics, says Sund." The representative of Eirin Sund from the Workers' Party is absolutely right. The party of progress is actually good at this. But it is simply tragic to pursue politics in such a way. Why was a proposal for a representative made on an ongoing basis after the budget had just been discussed? That's what I have to call double bookkeeping -- there's no other word for it. There is no doubt that there is a high level of activity in Norwegian waters, which requires good maritime safety and good oil protection. It is important that you have good safety at sea and good oil protection throughout the coast. It's now approx. three years ago Stortinget treated St.meld. No 14 for 2004-2005, Safe side: maritime safety and oil protection. This Communication recommended a number of preventive maritime safety and oil protection measures to address increased environmental risks from shipping in the years ahead. As a follow-up to this Communication, in 2006, the Swedish Coastal Agency prepared a State Depositary Status Report with a recommended replacement plan up to 2010. I point out that for 2008, an increase of 25 million was proposed. kr, something the Storting joined in the treatment of the budget-inner. S. No 13 for 2007-2008. There has also been a rise in oil preparedness funds in the current period compared to the period 2001-2005. The Progress Party, which was the support party and the basis of the Bondevik II Government, was also involved in this. Nor were they able to make the big promise in this sector. They were most concerned about giving tax relief, and then there's actually not going to be money for everything. As I have said before, there is a great deal of activity in Norwegian waters, which requires good maritime safety and good oil protection. I believe that the needs in the field of oil protection have been well preserved through St.meld. No 14 and Coastal State of Material Report 2006. We know the needs, and it's important to follow them up. We don't need any more plans and investigations. We have a good foundation. There is no doubt that oil protection has been strengthened by this government. I think we need more to strengthen oil protection in the years to come. It is important that this government is given the opportunity to follow this up in practical policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1031	I almost have to get hold of the previous speech, the case rapporteur. Firstly, the proposals of the Progress Party actually came after the state budget had been presented, and after the accident at Statfjord had happened. I find it embarrassing that the rapporteur, who belongs to the government parties, spends more time at the beginning talking about the Progress Party than about what we can actually do to improve oil protection in this country. We actually think it's more important to do something. The Progress Party believes it is important that we now put in place an obligatory action plan to achieve enhanced oil protection preparedness. Unfortunately, we experience at regular intervals that accidents and uncontrolled discharges of oil and other harmful substances into nature occur. In 2007 the base support and sank the boat «Server» outside Fedje in Hordaland. This led to large amounts of oil leaking from the ship and the pig to the coast of Fedje and the surrounding areas. In December 2007, we experienced that the Statfjord A platform pumped over 4,000 cubic metres of crude oil directly into the sea. Fortunately, the damage to nature after emissions appears to have been relatively small. However, this is largely due to coincidences only, primarily in the form of the optimum wind and current conditions after the emission. Both of these accidents clearly show that accidents can occur, and that it is crucial to have equipment and plans in order to ensure that action can be taken in a very short time, so that the damage is minimised. However, in addition to being able to respond quickly when the accident is over, it is also essential to have the best equipment available to reduce the damage as much as possible. In this context, the Progress Party will indicate that in 2006 the Coastal Agency had a report on the needs of reinvestment in oil protection equipment, initial investments in depots, equipment on ships, etc. to strengthen preparedness. The report concluded that over a five-year period there is a need to invest 260 million. kr in order to ensure that equipment and vessels are in place so as to have a standby which is in line with the safety level recommended by the Coastal Works. In the response of the Council of State to the Committee, it is pointed out that the Government has invested approx. Seventy-five million. kr from 2006 to 2008 in order to strengthen oil protection. Of course, we think it's good, but it's just a small step in the right direction, and it's too little in relation to the great needs that the Coast Guard has told us that they need to ensure proper oil protection. In order to put this in perspective, the Swedish Coastal Agency's report shows that they need to invest and replace equipment for 52 million. NOK 2006, SEK 71 million. SEK 2007, 51 million. NOK 56 million in 2008. SEK in 2009 and 30 million. kr in 2010. This clearly shows that the Government's 75-million-dollar appropriations. kr is far from the major needs for replacement requested by the Swedish Coastal Agency in its 2006 report. It is also important to bear in mind that, in addition to the major needs for equipment and materials to ensure oil protection, it has become clear that there is a high need along the coast to provide a reinforced towing boat preparedness. The Progress Party also believes that the best thing to do to prevent new oil spills in nature is to ensure a high level of tug-boat preparedness, while, of course, it is essential to have the right equipment available and ready for action in the shortest possible time to minimise emissions and damage. In order to ensure this, we believe it is essential that an action plan on enhanced oil protection is presented during 2008 and that this plan should include binding funding to ensure the upgrading of oil protection equipment and ships. I would therefore like to refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1046	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1049	The Progress Party is addressing an important issue today. But what is perhaps most eye-catching is that they take it up from a political recognition that several of us confess to in other contexts, namely the precautionary principle. I could probably wish that the Progress Party also practiced the precautionary principle in other environmental matters as persistently as possible. It could lead us into exciting cooperation relationships. The oil business generates large revenues for the nation, but it also poses a high risk. We've learned that painfully from history. So it is that our largest export industry must live side by side with our second largest export industry, which is, therefore, fisheries and the aquaculture industry. That, of course, presents great challenges. I could also add the big and important industry of tourism. That's why it's especially important that we have a lot of attention on this, and we have. As late as the month before the Storting went apart in the previous period, we treated St.meld. No 14 for 2004-2005, Safe side: maritime safety and oil protection. Then it was 12 years ago when we dealt with such a message. Here there was a large and broad majority behind most of the conclusions, which actually gathered all the parties on the Stortinget. It was just a minority proposal. So a little visit to the Workers' Party and the representative, Stroem, who said that there had been a lot of happening now during this government. Yeah, that's enough. In any case, there has been some - on the basis of the message that we received and that was agreed in May 2005. I cannot see that the Workers' Party was involved in a single minority comment in the setting of that message. So we were completely in line with the current government parties at that time. I think that is reassuring, because this is an important field, which we must have a broad majority behind it. So now the Progress Party is coming and is asking for a new action plan. After what I understand, it is especially on the basis of two events: the “Server” loss and the detachment of the wire between the load bend and the bend loader at Statfjord. Obviously, both of these events were serious reminders that things can happen that shouldn't have happened. But it is also an important reminder that there is a major activity at Europe's second largest port of oil, Mongstad, where there are more than 3,000 movements of ships every year. So it is the government's responsibility to continuously assess the need for preparedness and any improvement of this, and of course to inform the Storting about this. It will also be necessary to make the economic resource needs known to the size of the annual budgets. In the right we have therefore come to St.meld. No 14 for 2004-2005 should be indicative of our view until the Government provides new information that may change this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1062	What the Progress Party takes up is important and central. And it is clear that both in the opposition and in the position, SV has been dedicated to strengthening oil protection, not least the tug capacity, which Hoksrud had in mind. These are things that it's important to record, and it's important to take it up when you're in position and have the ability to raise money for what one mind is important. That's where populism is revealed. When one is in position -- like one was with the Bondevik II government in three budgets -- oil protection must not be something that comes about when an accident occurs. If you follow some political principle in addition to reading newspapers and seeing what it is best to say in the eyes of the voters, you have to have a policy of being a leader. I hear that a now -- like the representative Halleraker -- is talking about the precautionary principle, and that's positive. But then the question is, does this political innovation from the Progress Party have influence in other fields, or does it only apply to the field where there is a need to respond to different media postings? I'm not sure if it's serious. I have a feeling that there is an expression of acting power in media lookups, but not when it comes to long-term policies on the issue of better oil protection. For the problem of better protection of oil, I thought it was an important issue. But then I guess this is a little bit problematic with respect to the Progress Party. Of course, the rule follows up the message On the safe side, which the Storting treats, and where SV had some alternative suggestions. We're happy with what's happening from the government's side, but we could have thought of more money, of course. We could have thought of a greater economic effort in this area as well. We're working on that, to take care of the proposal providers. But it is the case that the Progress Party in its policy does not follow the precautionary principle, one that will speed up oil and gas operations, increase activity in the north, increase activity in areas that are uncertain, without having the necessary background analyses, impact assessments and measures on oil protection. It is only to initiate, according to the policy of the Progress Party, with regard to Norwegian oil and gas industry - wherever, without environmental conditions, without any specific requirements for oil protection. This is where the Progress Party meets itself in the door. If I'm serious about having a proper oil protection system, as it might seem today, you should also have a consistent policy, so don't do stupid things in vulnerable areas that can really hurt if you don't have a proper oil protection system. But it has not been the Progress Party's policy. But maybe that's it now. Perhaps I can rejoice and say that now the Progress Party is going to be responsible for oil and gas companies that want to speed up the pace without it being properly organized, without one being sure of accidents that can have significant consequences in, for example. The Lofoten and the Vesterål. Here you can hope for improvements. But to close: If the Advance Party ever comes into the position - which I don't hope - together with the other party and create a budget, I hope that, when they have the chance, they will show that they actually prioritize oil protection, and do not do as they did in the three budgets they were in: forgot the whole thing because it wasn't in the Norwegian media image.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1077	There is a high and increasing activity in Norwegian waters that requires a particular vigilance in relation to maritime safety and oil protection. The Progress Party therefore deserves commendation for having this matter far ahead on the agenda. But because we recently dealt with the maritime safety message, St. reported. No 14 for 2004-2005, the Christian People's Party elects to vote for the matter to be annexed to the Minutes. Large parts of Norway’s population live off and work in relation to what is produced in the sea and along the coast. Clean seas are therefore essential for the country. Forget the oil, the rate of the fish, was the headline in several newspapers in North Norway some time back. We experience a formidable development in both traditional fisheries and not least in the farming industry. Norway has special challenges when something goes wrong. Due to extreme weather conditions that may occur in the autumn and winter, special vigilance by the Norwegian authorities is required. The degradation time after pollution is longer in our cold climate, while Norway has a rich animal and bird life that is very vulnerable. The Christian People's Party agrees with the Minister for Fisheries when she writes in a letter to the Committee: ‘State maritime safety measures and oil protection equipment are designed to 1) reduce the likelihood and 2) reduce the impact of measures.’ This is about preventing and having a comprehensive emergency equipment located in coastal depots in case of an accident. While there is good reason to rejoice that the Ministry of Fisheries and Coast has been provided with some more resources to strengthen coastal oil protection, there is still a considerable lag in relation to the objectives adopted in the process of the maritime safety communication in May 2005. The Minister himself admits in the letter to the Committee that there is still a lag in the alignment of oil protection equipment. In addition, two of today’s government parties, together with the Progress Party, made the following proposals in dealing with the maritime safety notification: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure, as soon as possible, a towing boat capacity along the entire Norwegian coast with a normal response time of 6 hours and a maximum of 12 hours based on the coastal route.’ So it was SV and the Center Party when we dealt with this message. I would like to challenge the Minister and ask whether we have reached that point today, or whether we are still missing the follow-up to the Roman number decision that the Central Party and SV participated in when we dealt with the message last time. It costs to get into government and follow up promises that a slightly more non-obligatory person can join the opposition. I would also like to challenge SV's Hallgeir Langeland, who was on a note that one would have five state tugboats on the route Røst-Vardø and one state tugboat on Sørland. Is it in place? Finally, I would like to challenge the Minister on three specific issues: The Committee was particularly concerned with maritime safety in the north and around Svalbard in the consideration of the maritime safety communication and was asked to assess whether the port and water law should be introduced on Svalbard. Where does this matter stand at the moment? Furthermore, there has been a long-standing uncertainty about the future of Loran C as a backup system in a future European satellite navigation system. How far has the decision-making process gone in terms of Loran C? Thirdly, I would like to challenge the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs to take care of the oil protection base at the training centre. The oil protection base at the Traina was established on the basis of decisions taken in the Stortinget. Today, there is considerable uncertainty as to whether the base should remain on Training or be moved to Lake Sandness. The Minister has the full support of the Christian People's Party to establish that this oil protection base is still to be located in Training.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1113	Norway's large oil resources guarantee us both high incomes and environmental challenges. Both oil production and transport represent a potential leakage hazard. Even with a high focus on the four areas of production security, strict environmental requirements, port and fairway security and increasing knowledge of how to reduce the risk of spills, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of oil spills. That's why we have to have a second chance, and that's oil protection. In a phase where the production of oil will gradually decrease, while transport will increase, we need to assess continuously whether the oil protection equipment is adequate to meet a potential risk of oil spillage. Scenarioa when it comes to the ice-covering of the North Callot, is an example of such an external relationship that could have consequences for how we set up preparedness. The center party knows the value of people living in the whole country and along our entire coast. This bustet pattern gives Norway great economic advantage and gives a great choice for our inhabitants to choose their homes in different parts of the country and in different types of nature. But the fact that people live and work along our entire coast, means that the consequences of any large spillage of oil are greater than if this had happened in an area without a bus. In addition to the consequences of oil spills for wildlife and wildlife, especially in relation to seabirds and birds in general, one will thus hit nourishment and bustage. It's called the climate and the sometimes extreme weather pressure, as the proposers also point out, are extra challenges for Norway. I was visited by the coast of Spain after the Prestige accident and saw the consequences of oil spills in busied areas. It goes without saying that it has a huge impact on business, and there are also social consequences that result from it in retrospect. Based on this, a good oil protection system is, according to the view of the Centre Party, absolutely decisive to have a coastal nation like Norway. Although we do not believe that ever-new national action plans are right - the proposers ask for one in their proposal - it is gratifying to note that the Progress Party has an involvement in this area. It must be allowed to say that some of the parties on Stortinget, e.g. My own, you've had an engagement in this field for a long time and have been occupied with oil protection since before the Progress Party was the ship. Therefore, it is gratifying to welcome you to pay attention to this important topic. But it also requires a show real willingness to follow up with funds. It's been done by the government, this area is going to have a big focus on the future, and it's also going to be needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1128	The left will commend the proposers to raise an important issue. Better oil protection and better protection against acute pollution are important to provide security to the rural population in particular and to the nation in general, and to provide protection for important environmental values in the event of an accident. Experience shows that major damage to nature and the coastal environment can be avoided through rapid response and good coordination of efforts, through well-trained teams and coordination of private, state and municipal efforts, as well as voluntary efforts. Norway is a coastal nation. Many depend on a clean coast, free from pollution and oil spills, in their daily occupation. Tourism industries, fisheries, fish farming - all depend on the Community making available the resources needed to ensure preparedness for acute pollution. Based on St.meld. No 14 for 2004-2005, On the safe side - maritime safety and oil protection, the Bondevik II government in its time carried out a major effort on oil protection through, among others. a mapping of equipment capacity to maintain the established preparedness at the defined level building the preparedness to continue and develop operational preparedness through increased efforts to enhance competence in their own and cooperating response organisations; Improved oil protection preparedness is about making more resources available to increased tug capacity, equipment renewal and crew training. It must be done through budgetary appropriations. We have spent enough time on action plans. Now is the time for action. Therefore, the Left proposed 100 million in the context of the 2008 Alternative State Budget of the Left. more on oil protection along the coast, in addition to the Government's proposals, to which the bulk of the population joined. The left proposed $30 million. kr for discharge of shipwreck from which heavy oil leaks and 70 mills. kr for increased standby, increased towing capacity and increased equipment acquisition. The left will also emphasise the importance of voluntary teams in relation to oil protection operations. Experience with large clean-up operations shows that the number of hands at work is crucial for limiting the speed of oil damage in the coastal zone. Substantial voluntary action is therefore absolutely necessary. The effect of such efforts is much greater if volunteers are trained in oil protection and can effectively enter the state command line during oil protection operations. We politicians want increased value creation through oil and gas activities, and we also aim to get the most activity into land. Then we often get crossing traffic in relation to the usual ship's trail, and we know that the more traffic and crossing traffic we have, the more chances are that accidents may occur. Not least in my county, More and Romesdal, we have two such places, the Tent Goods and the Nyhavna, where we have crossing traffic into land. Accidents often occur in bad weather, and we probably have to recognise that there is limited capacity and quality of the oil protection equipment we have to deal with difficult weather conditions and high waves. It is important that we constantly focus on resources for research and development of equipment that can also deal with better extreme weather conditions and high waves if accidents occur in such a situation, which unfortunately often does.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1157	In the proposal in Document No: 8:39 in 2007-2008, representatives are asking for an action plan to be drawn up for enhanced oil protection. It has now been three years since Stortinget treated St.meld. No 14 for 2004-2005, Safe side: maritime safety and oil protection. This Communication recommended a number of measures in the field of prevention of maritime safety and oil protection, in order to address increased environmental risks from shipping in the years ahead. As a follow-up to this Communication, in 2006, the Swedish Coastal Agency prepared a State Depositary Status Report with a recommended replacement plan up to 2010. Preventive maritime safety is primarily geared to measures aimed at reducing the likelihood of marine casualties. Oil protection preparations are designed to reduce the impact of acute pollution in the event of an accident. A number of preventive maritime safety measures have been implemented in line with the St.melding recommendations. No 14 in recent years. In January 2007 we opened a new traffic centre in Vardø, and from 1 July 2007 sailors were put in place on the Vardø-Røst route. In 2005, we got a nationwide AIS network to monitor ship traffic, and this will be complemented by an international long-range satellite tracking system for ships, LRIT. Overall, this reinforces monitoring of Norwegian sea areas. In the case of Loran C, which was explicitly questioned, there is something the Government has decided to continue until a decision has been made on whether to use it as a backup system internationally. Norway is active in dialogue with both the EU and Russia. There is still a certain lag in the state oil preparedness, in order to reach the recommended level of emergency equipment in the Coastal Authority’s 2006 status report. This is a aftermath both from the previous government and from the time before oil protection was transferred to the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Department and the Coastal Plant. Still, a lot is done. A state towing boat stand has been established in North Norway in a cooperation between the Coast Guard and the Coast Guard. South Norway is covered by private resources. The Coastal Agency's budget for emergency pollution preparedness has been strengthened after our government took over. In 2007, emergency unloading equipment was established for bunkers in Horten, Hammerfest and Svalbard. The government has also made sure that the main depot in Fedje is reestablished, while the main depot in Florø is in place. Good cooperation with the Russian authorities on maritime safety and oil protection in the northern regions continues, and joint oil protection exercises are regularly conducted. The work on emptying the wreck «Nordvard» in Mossesundet for oil began before Christmas and ended immediately. I agree with the proposers that we need solid oil protection in Norway. Every day, ships along our coast with both oil cargo and bunkers on board represent a risk of discharge in the event of an accident. An increase in ship traffic from North-West Russia is also expected in the coming years. In addition, offshore oil and gas activities may cause oil spills. We've seen examples of both of these last years. Oil protection is about people’s sense of safety in coastal activity. Increased ship traffic and petroleum activity in the northern regions also increase the need for knowledge of oil protection in ice-filled conditions, dark and high waves. The Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs is therefore developing a comprehensive overview of the activities of different actors in this area. Work is also underway on launching a pilot project related to the technological development of bilges for use under difficult weather conditions. As regards the Port and Water Law and the question of whether it should apply to Svalbard, there are questions to which the Government will come back. I believe that the needs in the field of oil protection have been well identified through St.meld. No 14 for 2004-2005 and the Coastal State of Material Report 2006. I therefore believe that it is not a new action plan that we are going to use the resources now. We know the need, and oil protection has been significantly strengthened by this government. With regard to the question from the representative Sahl on the oil protection base at Trena, there is a question under the Ministry of the Environment, a department with which the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs has a good dialogue on these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1184	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1187	It's been three years since the potion message was processed. The Coastal Agency produced, as the Council of State said, a report based on this. This is a report that the department chose to arrest. In fact, the Progress Party had to go all the way to the Prime Minister to have that report released. The report showed that there was a backlog of 260 million. kr. The council says that this government has followed it up, and that it is now a certain aftermath. Then the question becomes to the Council of State: is 100 million. Do you have a certain aftertaste? Because that's what we're talking about for 2006, 2007 and 2008. So it's a follow-up of approx. One hundred million. kr in relation to the report. Does the Council of State consider this acceptable?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1196	Firstly, I would like to stress that the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Department practises transparency in relation to the needs and recommendations of oil protection. This report is mentioned in the relevant Stortinget documents - the budget is a key word here. When this government took over, we started with a huge aftermath that we had taken over after the Bondevik II government, which, of course, settled the budget with the support of the Progress Party for three out of four years. What remains as the great measure of oil protection -- now I'm not talking about the prevention of maritime safety, but oil protection -- after the previous government, with the help of the Progress Party, is the closure of the mid-depot on Fedje. We had to start by giving money to that. In addition, we have strengthened the appropriations in the order of magnitude set out by Mr Bård Hoksrud here. This is, in fact, a major step for Norwegian oil protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1203	One of the events which led to that document No. 8-proposal, the oil line is detachment at the bow loader on the Statfjord field. In an internal report published by the company, we read about many serious errors. Can the Council of State now assure us that the Government has taken steps to follow this up, so that we can avoid such an obvious sledriance in the future? 4000 tonnes of crude oil could cause great damage if the oil had come to our near shoreline.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1210	It is the Petroleum Inspectorate that has carried out the studies on the Statfjord A emissions. It is sorted by the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion. It's obvious that all events of this type need to be evaluated. Both the causes and the ways in which things have been managed, both by private actors and by the public sector, need to be monitored to reduce their impact. Both what happened in connection with the ‘Server’ and what happened at Statfjord A are experiences that the different departments, the different departments and the private actors have to take with them further for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1219	This is a matter where the government parties and the Christian People's Party agreed when we dealt with the maritime safety message in 2005, so I'm a little surprised that the minister is bringing forward the great aftermath of the Bondevik II government. When we dealt with this right in the transition to the red-green taking over and the Stoltenberg government came, we were in the start-up phase of a new bet. But now leave it. We agree on the progress here. There has been extra money for the department, and the Christian People's Party is pleased about it. But I want to repeat my challenge to the Minister for Svalbard. The Committee shall be to Svalbard next week. When we were there in the last period, there was a strong focus on this that we had to take care of maritime safety related to Svalbard, and on the issue of the port and water law would apply in the vulnerable areas there. How far has the government come with that treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1228	Firstly, I agree with the representative Sahl that today's government parties have agreed with the previous government parties on the overall grips, on the measures to be taken and on the risk assessments. I would also like to commend the previous government - and therefore also the previous government parties - for what they have done with regard to the prevention of maritime safety. When it comes to the level of funding, I don't feel the same urge to praise the Bondevik II government. I believe that more should have been done to give greater priority to oil protection, and that is what this government is trying to fix, so that we can reach the recommendations that the Swedish Coast Guard Agency has made to us. As far as Svalbard is concerned, we are constantly working to improve the prevention of maritime safety there, and in terms of the port and water law and its application to Svalbard, as I said, there is something the Government will come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1237	First, I would like to say that it is positive that the Government has increased its efforts in the area of preventive oil protection preparedness. Of course, it's important if the accident is to be out. Along our long-distance coast there are many wrecks, and actually it leaks oil from a lot of wrecks. The Coast Guard recommends that the wrecks be emptied. This applies, inter alia, to: «Velheim» outside Florø and «Nordvard» in Mossesundet. According to the Coast Guard, it is on money, which the Government has not granted. Will the Council of State ensure that money is allocated so that you can drain the oil from these wrecks that are currently lying and leaking continuously?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1244	Yes, we have already taken action against the wreck in Moss. The Coast Guard has now produced a report that gives us a very good overview of the location of the wrecks, and which wrecks are most at risk. We also follow developments very closely. Obviously, if the situation gets worse and becomes acute for some of these wrecks, you will have to intervene. And that's, as I said, something that's closely followed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1251	What has happened since Stortinget treated St.meld. No 14 for 2004-2005 on oil protection, the ‘Server’ is lost. The Council of State has said in the past that she will ensure an independent, external consultant in the assessment of the event. The Coastal Agency has carried out its own internal evaluation. So I'm asking if we're still going to have a review by independent professionals looking at how the action is carried out. The other thing that's happened is that in February/March we had an emergency drill in the northern areas. Barents Rescue shows that oil protection equipment is not very good - on the contrary, it is going to be ironed out. The representative of Storting Heidi Sørensen from SV then said that ‘the exercise revealed serious errors’. I wonder if the Swedish Government agrees with the Swedish Government’s representative, who then also said: ‘The state is clearly far worse than we feared, and we cannot live with that’. So this applies to oil protection outside Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1260	Firstly, an external survey of the ‘Server’ action will be carried out, in addition to the internal rounds of the Coastal Works. In the case of Barents Rescue and other exercises carried out, it is precisely done to find out whether the systems are working and to practice on scenarios. It's very important to deal with situations the day they happen. I believe that today's oil protection preparedness is satisfactory, but it is also the case that oil protection preparedness must be constantly assessed against the development of the risk picture and dimensioned after the development of, inter alia, marine traffic and petroleum activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1270	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1275	Let me start by saying that the Progress Party has added additional funds to its alternative budget, both in 2007 and 2008. Let me also remind you that the starting point is St.meld. No 14 for 2004-2005, which we dealt with just under three years ago, but that has happened a lot since we dealt with that report on oil protection. We had in December 2007 - that was the background to the initiative for this representative proposal - a serious discharge of oil into the North Sea, and we were rescued, so to speak, by chance, by wind and electricity. In January 2007 we had a shipwreck outside Fedje in Hordaland, where a ship broke down and we got oil in the rocks. There was little oil, but there was a lot of waste, and the cost has been over 300 million. kr. The coastal works have evaluated themselves. I am therefore pleased when the Council of State now confirms in the exchange of lines here that we have another evaluation. That's probably important. The self-evaluation of the Coast Guard reveals a number of weaknesses in the oil protection system. I am therefore pleased that you will be able to open the door for others than the establishment to assess the action that has been carried out. But these and other events remind us that oil protection is important for both the oil nation and the coastal nation of Norway. The preparedness should be optimised so as not to allow randomness and/or lack of procedures and equipment to give rise to a lack of or lack of activity if an adverse event or accident occurs first. I would like to quote from the setting to St.meld. No 14 for 2004-2005. The Progress Party, SV and the Central Party agreed that ‘there is a clear need for both strengthening and upgrading the intermediate and main depot’, and that upgrading and strengthening the depots should take place quickly. There is also reason to stress that this report, if necessary, to which the Council of State refers, was presented after strong pressure, among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. In conclusion, I come back to the exercise outside of Finnmark at the beginning of March 2008, where the oil protection equipment was extinguished in the north. The rapporteur, Kristina Hansen, in the municipality of Nordkapp - I think she represents the Workers' Party - is demanding the strengthening of oil protection in order to support the oil industry in the north; I refer to today's Business on 3 March 2008. Summary: Modern equipment is missing, emergency drills show a lack of preparedness, and ‘Server’s failure shows a lack of implementation. This and other factors are the background to the request for an action plan for enhanced oil protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1296	This is a very important matter. I also think it is important that you relate to what is the case. I will at least make sure that the Council of State receives a copy of the letter sent to the Prime Minister. The Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs had already been tried to produce the report, because it was not public. This report was finally released after pressure from the parliamentary leader of the Progress Party to the Prime Minister, who clearly showed that there was a need of SEK 260 million. And if the council doesn't remember it, at least I'm going to be able to make sure she gets that letter, so we're going to get the facts, what this case was, and what the situation around the report was. So I have to say that when I hear the representative of Langeland, who was on the speaker's chair here and said that oil protection is important, that it is important to follow up, and that is what you are doing now, I understand that Langeland is satisfied that there is a shortage of DKK 100 million, according to that report, only in the three years since 2006. There was a very broad political consensus around St.meld. No 14 for 2004-2005, that it should have a real content. So since that message was being processed in the Storting, where there was a broad consensus that this was an important area where you had to bet on, we have had two serious accidents that have made it possible to actually look at what you have to do and how you should proceed to ensure that we get a proper preparedness. The Council of State says that there is a satisfactory oil protection preparedness. We don't think it's satisfactory enough, when you experience what we've done and the crushing self-report that the Coast Guard has brought with you after the "Server" crash. I think it is good that everyone has been up and said that oil protection is important, and that this must be followed up. But it has to be something more obligatory. What we want with this action plan is to have an obligation to ensure that oil protection is put on the agenda and that it is followed up with financial resources, in line with that, among other things. The Progress Party put forward proposals in the 2007 budget, about 100 million. kr more for oil protection. Then you get a proper and acceptable readiness, you get replaced old equipment, and you get new equipment that allows you to act quickly and efficiently and prevent emissions, if they do, from happening to the minimum possible extent.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1309	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 2827]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1325	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and will be allocated up to 5 minutes to each batch and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given to the exchange of lines of up to five lines with replies from the Council of State post within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - That's to look at as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1334	The majority shall consider the suspension of Document No by the Trade Committee. 8:43 for the 2007-2008 Progress Party on measures to reduce agricultural bureaucracy. First of all, it is in place to give the proposers the honour to address an important theme. Regardless of the level of transfers to Norwegian agriculture, it should be important for everyone to use the money effectively. More generally, the need to modernise the public sector cannot be underestimated at a time when there is a shortage of labour and many important tasks to solve. The business committee is divided into the section. I assume that the government parties will explain their views on the matter. Agriculture has been passed through. Bureaucracies have spread across several levels of government and across different public organisations. There are large amounts of subsidies, there are extensive regulations, there are few that have an overview, and there are strong business organisations, strong bureaucracies and many policy objectives. If any system in Norway were to be rigged to build large administrations and low efficiency, it had to be agricultural management. Each year, the size allocated more than 12 billion kroner to agriculture. This is a lot of money, and the amount is roughly distributed between the salaries of farmers and the expenses of the bureaucracy. The way in which money is spent is thus of great importance to whether or not the policy objectives of agriculture are met. It will then be particularly important to have an open attitude to measures that can modernise agricultural management. It is well known from organisational theory that bureaucracies know how to defend their interests and try to resist interference from outside. The committee's treatment in this matter has been mildly said wonderful and problematic. The process shows a State Council that implements defence mechanisms instead of contributing to proper consideration of the matter in the Business Committee. The Industry Committee has asked for answers to a number of questions. Incredibly, there is no overall picture of the agricultural administration in any official source. In reality, we have only solved estimates from the media, as well as an investigation report from a student at the University of Ås. The Council of State has sent no less than four letters of reply without providing the Committee with an overall statement of the number of employees or the costs of red tape. There is a very strong reluctance to disclose information in these letters. The answers are relatively inconclusive, and the content is largely general descriptions rather than concrete answers to concrete questions. An overall opposition therefore comes with strong criticism of the state councils in the suspension, despite the different starting points of the agricultural policy. It is illustrative for the dialogue with the Council of State that, in relation to the Stortingen in this case, only in the last letter comes up with information that the Ministry has actually carried out a kind of survey of parts of the bureaucracy, namely of the number of employees in the agricultural administration in the municipalities. However, this disclosure is not followed up by much more information from the results of this screening, nor does it provide a complete picture. It is difficult to interpret this reluctance to disclose information other than that the Council of State either lacks transparency or is in possession of information that the Government fears might miserably appear if it becomes public. In any case, this signals a low level of commitment to exploiting resources and reducing administrative expenditure. According to the United Nations, the student Linda Klem from the University of Ås estimates on 14 January 2008 that the cost of agricultural red tape is over DKK 4 billion. This is about every four heads that the Stortinge grants to agriculture. It is then obvious to assume that the possibilities of efficiency are present. This means that Norwegian farmers may receive less of the subsidies granted by Stortinget than they could otherwise have received. Alternatively, it is possible to reduce transfers without giving particular importance to Norwegian farmers or to agricultural policy objectives. The situation is that we have a government standing on the ground resting on the modernisation of the public sector. In the agricultural sector, there is reason to believe that development is clearly in the wrong direction. I would like to address the suggestions that are on the right in the setting. The proposals imply that the Government is asked to concreteise the extent of the agricultural bureaucracy in a presentation to the Stortinget and that the Government is asked to present a strategy for red tape. It should be lacking, farmers deserve a more efficient use of the resources allocated to agriculture. However, the right has no illusions that the red-green government will contribute particularly to more information, rather to a particularly more efficient use of resources. To this end, the right wishes to vote against the Committee's recommendation and requests that it be set up against the proposals in the position behind the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1368	The representative Torbjørn Hansen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1371	I agree with the proposers that there is a great red tape associated with agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture. The numbers that have been provided by the Council of State also show that. So far, the Progress Party has a point. But when the Progress Party presents it as if bureaucracy only represents a problem, I no longer follow along. For example, we should be pleased that we have a private Ministry of Agriculture and Food, with a broad management responsibility and a high level of professional competence in agricultural and food policy. During the last budgetary procedure, the Party of Progress would cut close to one third of the Ministry’s operating budget. How, then, would it go about agricultural policy? Another example is the government's agricultural budget, which they would cut by 30 million. kr in the year’s budget. I'm overconfident that it would be a big problem for agriculture if the Progress Party got through for its cuts. During the night, tasks should be solved by a much smaller workstick, without a good process for both the worker and the worker. In addition, would it happen to all other areas before the food policy for which the department is responsible - or is it only the professional farmer the Progress Party would give a greeting? Does the Progress Party think that they should provide more money for the farmer? If that is the intention, work must be done more thoroughly than just by removing millions with a pen stroke. It is important to be clear that the management tasks of agriculture are linked to the whole supply chain, from primary producer to trading, environmental protection and sustainable use of land resources, the organisation of new industries and the further development of agriculture, as well as responsibility for the long-term management of property and resources. Although major organisational changes and more efficient agricultural administration have been implemented in recent years, we still have a challenge when it comes to providing more efficient and user-friendly agricultural and food management – this is not least important for farmers. In the Workers' Party's agricultural group, we have also focused on this, and we are impatient to see results. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State has so clearly said that he will follow and come back to this in the future budget proposals. In particular, it will be important for indicators to be developed in order to see work and resource use in the context. An important tool will be to further streamline agricultural management in order to make it the best possible and most appropriate to the needs of its citizens and businesses. Nor can one mention in such a debate, when he is first raised, the reorganization of the Food Authority and the expert group focusing on prevention and action if, or when, we get a crisis situation -- whether it's a bird flu or not. or there is an outbreak of bacteria of a serious nature. The ministry has taken hold of some such incidents, and I am pleased about it. It underlines the importance of food security throughout the chain for this government. I'm going to promise the representatives of the Progress Party, and for that matter, the Right, too, that in the Labour Party, together with our government colleagues, we should do what we can to reduce bureaucracy, but give a little toll. If there's something farmers and other self-employed people want to do, there's a good policy. That is not the case. Because the Department and the Council of State have given such a clear signal that continuous work on the same objective is underway, the proposal is annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1393	Let me first commend the case rapporteur for a thorough work on this matter and for his and his support to the Advance Party's proposals. The purpose of the Progress Party in promoting this proposal for a representative has been to highlight the red tape in agriculture. For a long time, not only during this period of growth, but for a long time, claims and rumors that agriculture is exposed to a major red tape have been made. If you think about it a little bit, it's quite obvious. Norwegian agriculture is perhaps the most regulated and bureaucratic industry — and it is not just agriculture in this country, but probably worldwide. It is a law that governs the farmers in agriculture down to the smallest detail. So just to do a smaller job on your own property, you have to ask public agencies about it. It is clear that the large support system, which requires the management of public bureaucrats, and all the application processes of the individual trader, must lead to a large bureaucracy. It tends to say that behind each rule there is a bureaucracy. I think that's a wise word there's a lot in it. What we are responding to in this matter is that the Minister of Agriculture and Food almost disapproves of the fact that there should at all be some problem with some bureaucracy in agriculture. It shows, as the rapporteur was also concerned, how critically this matter has been dealt with by the Minister of Agriculture and Food. It is rarely the business committee has to send as many letters with the same questions to a government council as what we have had to do in this matter, without having to get an answer. It shows a position on the Storting and on this committee that I have not experienced so far in this great period, and I think the Council of State should take this into account in future matters. This is not an example of how to deal with the Storting. As the Council of State and the Stortinget are also familiar with, there has been a major upheaval in Norwegian agriculture in the last 30 years. There has also been a period during which government management of agriculture has increased. When there are claims in the media that there are ten farmers behind each bureaucracy, there is information that the Storting and the Government have to take seriously. What we have asked for in this case is that the government returns to the Stortinget and specifies the extent of this bureaucracy in a separate case. We register that the Council of State rejects research results from the University of Ås. Professor Anesland, who has been researching this issue for very many years, claims that there may be as many as 10,000 bureaucrats in agriculture. Obviously, there are claims from research teams that we have to take seriously and get verified somehow. We also record that after we promoted the proposal, there has been a master's degree project from the UMB that goes in the direction of what Anesland says. So it's relatively arrogant of the council in a letter to the Stortinget to say that he doesn't believe in the results that come out of that master's task, and at the same time clarify that he hasn't read the problem. It says something about the quality of political management in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. We are looking forward to the Council of States now returning to the forthcoming budget proposals and concreteising the scale of the agricultural bureaucracy, but I would like to see those matters before we say that the Council of State has followed up what the Progress Party here has asked for. I think it's a long way to go before the Riis-Johansen Council wants to make this concrete as we ask.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1408	The Progress Party has proposed measures to reduce what they call agricultural bureaucracy. The representatives are calling for a concreteisation of the extent of the agricultural bureaucracy, and they are asking the Government to present a strategy for red tape in the 2008 agricultural settlement. Agriculture is the lifeblood in Bygde-Noreg. It stands for invaluable values and long traditions related to food production, livestock farming, cultural landscapes, etc. Agriculture is a key element in the spread of busses in this country. Agriculture depends on good public administration. It has, therefore, been implementing efficiency improvements and organisational changes in the management of agriculture in recent years. It is still a challenge to provide for more efficient agricultural and food management, focusing on both user correction, simplification, openness, quality and participation. In its letter to the Economic and Social Committee of 11 February this year, the Council of State announces that it will follow up on future budgetary proposals to the Grand Duchy with up-to-date information on developments in agricultural management. It's positive. I also see it as positive that, in this context, indicators can be developed to look at work and resource use in the context. A useful tool can be developed in further efforts to streamline agricultural and food management so that it can best adapt its needs to the needs of its citizens and businesses. But one more thing. The letter from the Minister of Agriculture and Food of 12 March this year shows that the county officials’ annual report to the Ministry of Renewal and Administration shows that in 2007 there were 365 annual works linked to the State Department of Agriculture. In addition, a survey that the county officials had carried out showed that it was approximately. 870 annual work linked to the agricultural administration. The Christian People's Party, together with the rest of the opposition, is critical that these estimates did not appear in either its letters of reply dated 11 February, 15 February or 18 February 2008, and that the Government has still not provided a comprehensive overview of the agricultural management system, as requested by the nutrition committee for several rounds in dealing with these cases. I agree that the proposal for a representative is annexed to the Minutes. I look forward to future budget proposals to get more information on the size of agricultural management.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1429	A proposal has been put forward in which the intention of the proposers is exclusively the well-being of agriculture and the need to give more freedom to professionals. There is an impression, both through the proposal and the comments written, that this is the farmer's woe and well that is at the centre, and the need to red tape an already overbureaucratic and well-regulated sector. It is in stark contrast to the follow-up to the agricultural agreement and other agricultural policy, both from the proposers and from the parties supporting the motions for resolutions, which have been attacked in recent years by the agricultural agreement at every crossroads. The party deters the agricultural agreement by halving the transfers above the state budget, the right goes to hard attack, and even the left uses funds from the agricultural agreement to balance its alternative government budget. Therefore, in my view, the intention is not for believers. I share the intention that both the Government and the Storting have at all times a responsibility to have as effective a management as possible to minimise the number of bureaucrats, and to constantly look at mechanisms, things and systems to simplify the system as much as possible. Nor am I in doubt that it is right that we in the agricultural industries in the last few years, or the last generation, have seen a development that has gone against more management, and then also looked up to the number of professionals, even though I don't think we can establish that what is presented in this master's task is the fasit. It is a development that has also been seen in all other sectors. We are living in 2008, and there are - and it has been - ever more stringent requirements for all possible stages of production to document. Reprobability is required. And not least, society today has a completely different need to test and control food hygiene than what I think the systems were good for a generation ago. It's also important to look at it when we discuss this. In the case of a body like the Food Agency, which is basically quite large, I am not quite willing to sign that this is about agricultural bureaucrats. These are people who are employed and have the task of looking at the entire production process of food, and to make sure that as consumers we don't get something that we shouldn't have had. But I also look forward to getting figures, to getting indicators, and to having the opportunity in the budget proposal to discuss active measures to reduce agricultural bureaucracy in the future. I would also like to say that from the industry's point of view, the agricultural bureaucracy as a service body is largely gone. The municipalities -- at least that's my sense of reality -- have cut out a lot of this. It is no longer required by law. In my own municipality, Trondheim, there is no longer an agricultural administration. You have an environmental unit. I think that's something you can find again in many places. You can see the same thing at the Agricultural Department of County. Thus, agricultural management does not appear to be frightening from the outset. I think that's an expression that it's actually reduced. And then I also want to say to the rather harsh outcomes that come, especially from the Right and - Supervisoryly - from the Left, that it is that we have inherited this administration. It is not that we have invented completely new things, completely new bureaucracy and completely new jobs after we took over the government apparatus in 2005. The representative from the Left, who has written into the criticism, was to all intents and purposes the Secretary of State of the previous government, and then had of course all the opportunities to take the steps that they thought were necessary. It also had the representative from the right. We have continued and built on what we took over, and it is alarming that criticism of it is promoted so harshly in such a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1442	The left is generally for red tape and simplification in all sectors where necessary. The question we are discussing today is whether there is a need for red tape in agriculture. I don't think it's easy to answer a clear and unambiguous yes to that question, either if there's a need for a review to see if there's too much bureaucracy in today's situation. In general, whatever the sector and management, it is the responsibility of all management to ensure that resources are used properly and that surplus resources are deployed in other areas where there is a greater need for them. This is an overall responsibility, but also a sectoral responsibility. For the Left, it is not an independent objective to have fewer agricultural bureaucrats, but it is an independent objective with a strong simplification of the many rules, laws and regulations of agriculture, which in itself will result in a need for less bureaucracy. We believe it is the right end to start in: first simplification of legislation, then fewer bureaucrats as a result of such a policy. Unfortunately, the government is going the opposite way. We are getting an increasingly comprehensive regulatory framework, the last with the proposal to tighten up housing, a change that requires even more bureaucrats to control increasingly fewer farmers. The same applies in and on the basis of the agricultural agreement. In the context of the last year’s agreement, the LUF funds became part of the agricultural agreement framework and not an ordinary budget line as before. It means less power for politics, more power for interest groups and bureaucracy. That is a policy that the Left does not support. We want the Agricultural Agreement Institute to be a much more purer agreement on farmers' wage and income opportunities in the coming year. The policy should be left to Stortinget. In the view of the Left, it is wrong that there are a number of legislative changes in the negotiations, such as: as regards the number of participants in joint ventures, distance rules, marketing rules for milk quotas, etc. All grants and schemes which do not directly affect the income of the farmer should be transferred to ordinary government budget items and decided and decided in open discussions in our elected democracy and not in closed negotiations within the corporate system. Such a change will also result in a smaller need for a complicated agricultural bureaucracy to manage the agricultural agreement, as it appears today. The left agrees with the description by the proposers that unnecessary red tape reduces the ability to change and innovation. It is essential that the modernisation of Norwegian agriculture continues and does not stagnate, as the Government’s strategy can clearly be seen as in many areas. The left regards the farmer as a self-employed person with a special management responsibility. Therefore, it is important that the entrepreneurial spirit is given an important place in agriculture. The resource base of rural areas needs to be exploited to a greater extent for the development of economic activity and for the settlement of people with no direct connection to industries. There needs to be more diversity in agriculture. Local authorities need to be given greater opportunities for local adjustment and for looking at agricultural policies in the context of other industrial policies. Agriculture must be given less designation, fewer forms, fewer and simpler guidelines. The complexity of the legislation and many of the laws of agriculture hinder the development of more flexible agriculture where those who want to invest in the industry are given the opportunity to do so. The Left therefore wants a full review of legislation and legislation with a view to a strong modernisation. It will automatically lead to a red tape in agriculture. Then I register that the representative Ola Borten Moe had a visit to the Left where he said that the Left had aged its alternative budgets using funds from the agricultural support. What the left did was to remove the export support for oyster sport. And everyone agrees that, in the context of the WTO, export aid must be phased out. And more importantly, when there is too little milk in the Norwegian market, it is wrong to support exports of just such products that there is too little. I hope that the Center Party agrees, that the funds can be used more sensibly. Then there was also criticism of the Left when it came to the number of posts and a lot of bureaucracy, and that the Left could do something about it. Yes, of course we could. The criticism we have joined is that we did not receive information from the Council of State. I believe it is obvious that the Council of State gives the Stortinget when the Stortinget asks for it. I hope the representative Borten Moe sees the content of what the Left has been on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1463	The concept of red tape that representatives of the Right and the Progressive Party have used repeatedly here today is itself an interesting concept in relation to what one actually thinks about - whether there are changes in agricultural policy or whether there are fewer employees to work to implement the policy adopted. I also noticed that a complete list of numbers was requested. It's about fogging, and it's about unwillingness to disclose anything about the number of people employed in agricultural management. I must almost remember what was presented to Stortinget for approx. six months ago in St. Prp. No 1 for 2007-2008. On page 26 there is an overview of the essential aspects of agricultural management. There is more detail on page 71, related to the number of employees in different parts of the government. On page 71, it also says about research. So I'm wondering a little bit about some of the formulations that are being used by big business representatives here about access to information related to the topic that is up to debate today. In any case, the agricultural sector is a complete value chain with 130 000 annual works and a production value of NOK 140 billion. It also means that there is a need for rules, systems and some to manage this system and to ensure compliance. It is important that there are qualified people, and it is important that the nutritionists who are in this value chain actually get answers to questions when they need it, that they are helped when they need help. To go into what I think is a rather undefined entry point from the Right and the Advance Party also here in the Chamber today, we can start with the Food Authority. Food surveillance is the largest in terms of the number of employees, with about 1 400 people, also mentioned in the article. No 1st@item: Food surveillance was established in 2004. What has been a major part of the internal work of the Food Safety Authority since 2004 is efficiency improvement. Food surveillance has been streamlined by 10 pst. since it was established, and it is in this area that the majority of the employees are employed in what is defined as the agricultural bureaucracy. It is also an area where the so-called agricultural bureaucrats work on issues that go far beyond dealing with the farmer in Norway, as the representative Borten Moe correctly said. There is a responsibility that I believe most people in this room are concerned that the Food Authority should take, that there is competence and that the service is provided. The next major sector is research. I have heard many debates in this Chamber on the spectrum of Norwegian policy, and I still have the pleasure of hearing a debate that goes on that we are going to do less research in this country. Of course, among the 650 annual works, it is possible to handle technical matters more easily, i.e. the internal work done by the research institutions, etc., but I have not heard any claim from the Storting that there should be less research in agriculture. A significant part of the so-called agricultural bureaucracy is working on research-related issues. Here, too, we've taken a grip. We have established Bioforsk, and Bioforsk has also received a directive on a 10% efficiency cut, which they are in the process of implementing. Then I would assume that the State's agricultural administration is a typical target for so-called red tape. I'm not going to say that the number 185 is some sacred number for the State's agricultural administration. And as I have also answered written question No. 746, from the representative of Kielland Asmyhr, where this is mentioned, there is also considerable work here to improve efficiency. The main agricultural administration of the State can do so with regard to the theme addressed here is to make it easier for the Norwegian farmer to deal with the legislation being practised. 40 pst. by the farmers, now electronically applying for production grants. It frees resources. There's a share that's going up. There is an important work within the theme that has been raised here today. Innovation Norway is much the same. The municipalities are also an area that should be referred to in the same way. I see that the time doesn't go by in relation to it now, but hopefully we can come back to that. My point is that when we talk about red tape, we also have to be precise about what we want it to be done less. I fully agree that we, as we, among other things, have done so in my time in the Ministry of Agriculture, shall use fewer resources for the provision of accommodation services, archive services, etc. It makes sense to make an efficiency improvement based on it. It is good that we have managed to streamline the Food Authority with 10 pst. It is good that we are now working to streamline Bioforsk. And we're going to keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1485	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1488	I tried to follow carefully during the state council's statements whether the state council recognises that there is a bureaucracy in agriculture, or whether it is not. I record that he says that we should spend a little less resources on the premises and on archives, etc., but I can't see that this would mean the huge red tape. What's strange is that when you meet with actors in the agricultural sector, it's not about bureaucracy at all. It's just about what the state can do more for the industry, not what the state can do less. It is quite different from all other businesses in this country, which are concerned with the totally opposite issues. So let me ask the Council of State quite specifically, and I ask for a concrete answer: does the Council of State recognise that there is a major bureaucracy in Norwegian agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1497	As I explained in my post, and as I have explained in St. pp. No 1, a significant number of people are employed in agricultural management in Norway. I tried in my article to review some of the work that those people are set to do. I still see, also in the question of the representative of Kielland Asmyhr now, that it is unclear what the representative actually thinks it should be done less, except for a more general approach to red tape, possibly a change in agricultural policy. I have not yet heard the Advance Party make proposals in Stortinget to make the Food Authority less. I have not heard the Progress Party propose that it should be less researched. It is possible that the Progress Party believes that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the State Agriculture Administration are superfluous, but I would like the level of precision to be considerably higher in terms of what is concrete here. Yes, we have an agricultural administration. The Progress Party is free to call it an agricultural bureaucracy with negatively charged input. The point is that those people are set to do a task within the agricultural policy that the Storting has adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1508	The most eye-catching thing in this case is in Annexes 1 to 4, where the Council of State does not respond to questions raised by the Economic and Social Committee. This, of course, is annoying for the Committee's work, but it also signals a very special attitude to the main issue, namely how to use resources in Norwegian agriculture. In particular, it becomes tragic when the Council of State criticises a particular task of a student, where the student estimates that bureaucracy costs about DKK 4 billion each year, without the Council of State having read the task, and without the Council of State presenting similar information to the Business Committee. We get a small amount of information in Annex 4, in a letter dated 12 March 2008, where the Council of State reveals that the Department actually knows how many people work in the agricultural administration in the municipalities. My question to the Council of State is: what is the background for this information to come first in response to letter No. 4 from the Business Committee? And: Does the Ministry have more information about agricultural bureaucracy than is provided in these letters of reply?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1515	With regard to employees in the municipalities, I have on several occasions informed Stortinget, and also said from this pulpit earlier, that it is the municipality's own responsibility. There are many municipalities that have shared positions, and, as the representative Borten Moe said, have departments that work with more than agriculture. So one concrete answer to the question of the number of employees in municipalities working with agriculture is not found. And, as I said, it's not the task of the state in relation to the municipal decisions that are taken about it. The best estimate we have is about 870. In the case of the other figures, I just have to remind the representative Torbjørn Hansen of what stands in St. Prop. No 1st@item: On page 26 and on page 71, the number of bureaucrats working, for example, is mentioned and numerically fixed. in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1522	If Norwegian agriculture is to have a future, it is a fact that farmers need more income and that resources are being used up to the maximum. This implies that transfers from the State budget will continue to be necessary. It is important for legitimacy that the funds given to farmers over the State budget meet the conditions required by the legislation. Most farmers are serious drivers, but unfortunately we also find what I would call landsurfers. They specify large areas as cultivated land and manure grazing, without being driven as it should - there is either renewal or fertilisation of grazing, etc. These farmers weaken the reputation of the industry. Does the Council agree that some professionals weaken the reputation of the industry in the way they operate? Does the Council of State consider that employees in the agricultural sector properly control compliance so that the reputation is not impaired?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1529	I believe that the issue raised by the representative of Kongshaug is important for credibility and trust in a system that is an important part of agricultural policy. I share that mindset. I also share the concerns about those who might have to find it too good to exploit the system. My opinion is that there is no significant degree of exploitation of the system, but to the extent that it does, it is not acceptable - not acceptable. When you link this to this debate, I would like to say at the same time that the example of the representative from Kongshaug shows why it is important to have an agricultural management that works. If you were to follow the Progress Party and the Right Method, we would have fewer people to follow up on the fact that the Code was complied with. I believe that exactly what Kongshaug's representative is addressing, underpins the importance of having people who can control, people who have the opportunity to follow the direction of agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1538	When the Progress Party asks for something, I have noticed that the Council of State is responding to a frontal attack. It's not exactly productive. Governments are shooting at the Progress Party and are constantly asking where the Progress Party will be more efficient and where we will reduce bureaucracy. Then maybe we know some of the core of the problem: we don't get the answers from the state council that we're asking for, so we can get a complete overview. To another side of that problem: in response from the Council of State, there will be, among other things. the continuous reorganization and efficiency of the programme. He mentioned it from the pulpit again today. My experience in working life in the past is that in order to make things more efficient and reorganize, at least one thing needs to be in place, and that is basic basic knowledge of what is status. Does the Council of State mean that he has delivered it to the Stortinget, or is he sitting on that information?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1547	The progress game has to make it a point to say that you're talking about them all the time. I heard that the representative of Hoksrud said the same thing in the previous debate. That's wrong. But I allowed myself to comment on the lack of the reasoning put forward by the Progress Party here, which is obvious. When it comes to accessing information, I would again recommend that you read St.prp. No 1, especially the 26 and the 71. It sets out what is of employees in significant parts of agricultural management. There is no information like there is any intention and point for me or others to hold back. There are employees who do the job they're set to do, and we need it. At the same time, it is my responsibility more than most others to ensure that sufficient efficiency is maintained at all times. I mentioned 10 pst. improving the effectiveness of the Food Authority. I mentioned 10 pst. improving the efficiency of Bioforsk. There is a need for measures to ensure that adequate adjustments are made at all times by central and agricultural administrations.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1554	We're standing in front of maybe the greatest expectations of an agricultural settlement ever. The farmers want larger transfers. They want higher prices. They want more money to invest in Norwegian agriculture. Then we have a situation where the administration is likely to cost NOK 4 billion every year, and where the Council of State does not inform the Storting about the extent of the bureaucracy in agriculture. If you do a thought experiment with administrative expenditure of DKK 4 billion and significant slack in this system due to lack of political attention, it might be interesting to ask the Council of State: when you come to the agricultural negotiations, it might be a theme to see if it is possible to get something more out of the money that the Storting actually grants, and so on perhaps implement reforms that make farmers even more out of farming, by cutting off some of these expenditures, on which there has obviously been very little focus in recent years?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1561	I doubt whether, in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food for a long time, it has been more focused on the importance of getting the money negotiated through the agricultural agreement to the farmer, so that it can make a concrete contribution to the income and economic development of the individual farm. That's my intention. It has been in the previous agricultural statements. It's also going to be my intention this year. If it were to be otherwise that the numbers with which the representative here operates are true, I have to ask what the right party did in government. This is not something that emerged in October 2005. It is alarming that the right party did not take hold of this in the four years when the party was in position to possibly negotiate something that, according to the representative Hansen, is impossible to defend. I'm surprised. At the same time, I believe that, in combination with focusing on the job that agricultural management is doing, while at the same time making sufficient demands for efficiency improvement, as I have mentioned in relation to Food and Bioforsk, we will be able to further streamline and develop food management and agricultural management in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1569	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1574	The representative proposal from the Progress Party is an attempt to provide a better decision-making basis for the Stortinget and to focus on the cost side of today's agricultural policy, which would be thought to be the focus of all parties. It is therefore remarkable to read the correspondence between the Committee and the State Council in this case. Here you can get the impression that there are people who do not have an overview of or do not want to answer how many employees there are in the agricultural bureaucracy. I am fully aware, and I think the majority of the committee is, that it is difficult in some of the cases to define how many of the work tasks are directly related to agriculture. Nevertheless, I expect the Council of State to be able to provide an almost complete and competent overview of how many people are employed in the agricultural bureaucracy, and thus the Stortinget can use it to do its job. If this is not the case, the parameters on which the Council of State uses for its simplification work may be questioned. And you can question whether it's just these basic skills that the Council of State doesn't have access to. In line with other industries, the agricultural industry needs to have a framework around its activities, which contributes as much as possible to the profitability of its production. We can contribute to this by working to keep the bureaucracy that the industry has to deal with to an absolute minimum. This focus has a strong priority in other departments, which should also apply to the Ministry of Agriculture. It's not like anyone thinks, that the only solution to increase the profitability of agriculture is to increase agricultural transfers through the agricultural agreement. That track leads only in one direction, namely that the cost of Norwegian-produced food only increases and increases. This weakens the competitiveness of agriculture on all fronts and leads to a continuation of agricultural migration. By reducing agricultural bureaucracy, we can help to free up both human and financial resources, and we can help the farmer himself to have more time to take care of farms and animals instead of filling out papers. That is the intention of the proposal and to which the majority will not now commit. That's too bad. In my view, the proposals of the minority, represented here by the Party of Advancement and the Right, are of course the ones that any department should work with, any Council of State should give priority and any political party should put on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1591	The Progress Party will have measures to reduce agricultural bureaucracy and at the same time calls on the Government to put forward a strategy for red tape in agriculture. It is familiar tones and in line with good progress party policies. The bureaucracy is known as an area that has been deferred and very easily criticised. Here it can take simple grips, my individual party. But what's new is that the Right throws itself at this carousel and lays down on a little vanguard of populism in this case. I'm a little surprised that the Right didn't take up this challenge when they put themselves in government, which the Minister of Agriculture and Food was also involved. I only note and take note that the Right has changed its agricultural policy. They're a long way from what they stood for for for many years, and that's what I think I'm sorry for. It is in this case, and it also applies when we deal with annual budgets. I agree that it is important to provide for an effective agricultural and food management regime, and it alerts Government through the autumn budgetary documents, that is through St. prp. No 1 for 2007-2008. The progress party is good at simplifying the challenges by setting the number of farmers to be added to agricultural management. It's a strange mathematical exercise that I can't quite understand the logic of. In my opinion, the Council of State has been aware that he will follow this matter closely in future budgetary documents. It would have been done, regardless of this proposal by the Progress Party. It is for this reason that the Government proposes that this matter be included in the Minutes. It is important to focus on this challenge, and to manage it in line with organisational changes and agricultural efficiency improvements. There are a few of us, but then a more thorough analysis and analysis is required, which I will of course come back to at a later date.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1606	This has been a funny debate to witness. So here we have experienced that the Council of State and the representatives of the position are shooting back at parts of the opposition and at the proposers that it is we who have not done our homework. It is not often felt that a government council against several parties claims that the budget proposal has not been read. This is to simplify the debate. It's trying to shoot back because you don't even have clear answers to the job you're asking for. It is clear that we have got what the Council of State has written in the budget proposal. We read the proposition in all directions -- I kept on saying. But people from research environments and the Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Research have publicly said that there is some sense in the figures that Anesland has come out with. The head of research in the State Agriculture Administration has said that in today's industry. When there is such a difference between the figures provided by the Department and what the research communities claim, it is clear that the Storting must address and ask control questions about the work done by the Ministry of Agriculture. I record that the Riis-Johansen Council does not want to deal with the agricultural bureaucracy. He wants to have a peaceful period as Minister of Agriculture and Food and to stick to the agricultural bureaucracy. But at the same time in this debate it is very interesting when representatives such as Sigrun Eng from the Labour Party and Ola Borten Moe, the chairman of the Committee, in many ways confirm that there is a great bureaucracy in agriculture, because it is a regulated industry as it is. So to the Food Authority. There are some people who realize that the Food Authority, we're just going to withdraw from the bureaucracy, it has nothing to do with bureaucracy. I can tell Stortinget that the representatives of the Progress Party on the Business Committee almost daily receive enquiries from companies and individuals who claim that they are exposed to bureaucratic food supervision. We're going to have an effective and good food supervision, but we have to see if the Food Authority acts effectively, and whether the Food Authority acts unbureaucratically. After this debate, it is only to realise that the debate on bureaucracy in agriculture is not over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1617	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2827]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1633	There is an overall committee behind the situation where the Storting asks the Government to assess whether it is right to initiate a process to highlight Norway’s challenges in terms of a comprehensive migration policy in the light of developments in Europe. Odelstingen will be dealing with the Foreign Affairs Act later today, and it is a comprehensive law that covers almost all of it, most of it in the area of immigration and integration. Later this spring we will receive a big message on labour immigration. Based on the debate that will take place later today, and as a follow-up to the message we are receiving, we will in many ways discuss the whole range of issues related to immigration and migration. Nevertheless, we see that it may make sense, and it may be right that the Government, through a new message, is carrying out an evaluation while possibly raising other and new issues that are presented to the Stortinget for discussion. It is therefore a unanimous committee that takes the challenge from the Right to ask the Government to consider whether it would make sense to come back with a message. From that I will ask the Storting vote for this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1642	The importance of this proposal is to be addressed in the United Kingdom by a communication on a comprehensive refugee and migration policy at national level, where this is also seen in an international context. There is a great potential for development in migration. Both in Norway and in other Western European countries, there is a strong need for labour and labour immigration, but there is no question that there are challenges related to illegal migration, among others. in relation to crime, labour exploitation and human rights violations. Internationally, there is now often a need for a common framework in relation to globalisation and migration, and by 2010 the EU will have a common European asylum system in place. I believe it is important for Norway to be involved in the formulation of a common European policy on asylum. Norway will therefore participate in international discussions and processes concerning the relationship between foreign and development policies and migration, integration and inclusion policies. Prevention and response to refugee challenges will have an impact on Norway’s impact on migration, but this requires good coordination of Norwegian policies in this area. In my view, common international work is important in three areas in particular. First of all, there is work on clarifying and reinforcing rights, for human rights and individual opportunities are very different in different countries. The second is that it is important to work for a greater intercultural dialogue. Various measures must then be taken for migrants, but it is important to take into account the large distinction between legal and illegal migration. Today, there are about 200 million people living abroad. The increase has been high since the 1970s. All countries are affected by migration, either as countries of dispatch, as countries of transit or as countries of destination. We see migrants in parks, on the pavement, at airports, in cities and in local communities. Migration concerns us all. It has both social and economic implications, and we see clear consequences in important areas such as human rights, peace and stability in the world, trade and public health. National and regional legislation is affected and made necessary. There is an international common recognition that the world community has no phase in all these challenges posed by migration, but to demand a common framework and the recognition that there must be a minimum of protection against illegal immigrants. This also directly intervenes in our own debate on illegal immigrants and their need for health care, as we do. could read about in today's Evening Post. I'm not going to take that debate now, but I think there's one important question that needs to be asked, and that's: where are the boundaries really going? There will be an important debate in the future. Last week I attended an international parliamentary conference under the auspices of the European Union on globalisation and migration. Whatever the country, regardless of internal circumstances, the views were that it is necessary to work for a common framework and harmonisation of the laws of different countries. Regulation of the migration flow was also seen as an important future issue and as a major challenge. As a representative from Poland said, there is a great migration today, but it has been at all times and around the world. Almajali of Jordan stated that dialogue is more necessary than ever and the only option for peaceful development. Because, as he said, we need to understand the concerns of the recipient countries, but we also need to understand the reasons why people migrate. War, persecution and job shortages lead to migration, a migration that needs to be distinguished from illegal migration, where crime is often the trademark. And from an African representative came the following heartache: we have to find the best way to regulate migration, so that we can concentrate on giving the best opportunities to the legitimate migrants. Probably, both nationally and internationally, the challenges are many, and I'm going to try to sketch some of them point-to-point: Migration has implications for social and economic policy both in a country and in a continent. There is an increasing international need for common standards to regulate migration flows. Migration challenges are and will be a test of international cooperation and peace-building work. This applies to legislation and harmonisation between different countries and also to internal legislation in their own country. We are going to have our own foreign law to debate in Odelstinget today, but we are probably not finished with that debate. There will certainly be more to come and more to be done. We must look at the rights of migrants, both the legitimate migrants and the illegals, as I mentioned earlier. We must work on attitudes towards illegal migrants. There's questions about human trafficking -- what do we do about it? It is incredibly important for the whole of world peace to reduce the difference between poor and rich countries. Dialogue and common cultural understanding are essential. Basically, it will be working to promote democracy, human rights and respect for law. All the indents that I have now outlined - something that covers bolts - contain different elements that must be involved in a policy debate on migration and in shaping a future migration policy, both in relation to our country, in relation to the EU and in relation to the whole world, for this is globalisation. In its reply to the Committee on this matter, State Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen has emphasised that the Government is working in several areas on this issue, and that is correct enough. We have the Foreign Affairs Act, which is being treated today, and we get a big message about labour immigration, which will also contain a lot of this, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is working on a big message about foreign policy, which is essential in relation to migration. Then it is also stated that some research and development work is being carried out in this area. I agree that all these areas are important and comprehensive in terms of migration. The notifications will also provide a good basis for formulating a comprehensive and coherent refugee and migration policy. But my point is that everything has to be woven together--then one will see if all the threads have been attached. That is why I want a big message about a comprehensive refugee and migration policy in relation to Norway, the European Union and the rest of the world. I am pleased that the committee has a positive basic position on this matter, but I am somewhat disappointed that the committee has not managed to take any final position in the vote other than to ask the Government to consider this further. My challenge to the Council of State will therefore be: Will he now take the initiative to give the Grand Duchy and our country the opportunity for a comprehensive refugee and migration policy, and so that the Grand Duchy can be dealt with and taken a final stand on such an important issue, which will shape the future both in our country and in the rest of the world?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1701	In Document No: 8:19 for 2007-2008 by the representatives of Foss, Holmberg, Höie and Bretzeg, proposals are being made for a comprehensive communication on a comprehensive refugee and migration policy. In my reply of 19 December last year, I pointed out that the ongoing work on a major communication on labour immigration and the process towards Odelsting's examination of the proposal for a new foreign law itself would provide the basis for discussing refugee and migration policy issues. A new foreign law is subject to treatment at Odelstinget later today, and in a short time the notification of labour immigration to the Stortinget is transmitted. On the basis of the above-mentioned issues, the Government wants to continue by focusing on the international migration and refugee challenges Europe is at the heart of and how we can contribute to addressing them in the future. The number of asylum seekers in Europe has varied considerably over time. Although, among others: Norway has for some years registered relatively few asylum seekers, the trend now appears to have turned around. Regardless of asylum arrivals, I see it as probable that the scope of migration - both legally and illegally - will remain at a high level in the years to come. There is not always a clear distinction between flight and migration. Applicants for Europe today may in many cases have mixed motives - often there is a need both for increased security and for a materially better life behind it. In this picture, organized crime is heard through human trafficking and smuggling. It is clear that tragic events involving the lives of refugees and migrants often result from the cynical exploitation of criminals. I do not see any simple solutions to these complex challenges, but I see the need for a broad approach and the need for well-established cooperation between European governments. It is clear from the picture that global aspects, such as climate change and conflicts, also have an impact on the response we have to the challenges. It is a fact that, in parallel with the strengthening of cooperation, the EU is increasingly a driving force in the development of European refugee and migration policies, and also in linking migration policies and development policies more closely. The EU is made up of our neighbouring countries, and the migration and refugee policies developed by our neighbouring countries are impacting, for example. through the number of asylum seekers. With the exception of the Dublin cooperation on which country is obliged to deal with an asylum application, and the Schengen cooperation, we in Norway still have few formal contact points for this part of EU cooperation. At the same time, we are facing the same challenges as our neighbours. I believe that it is now time to highlight developments in Europe and the response of European governments to migration and refugee challenges. This is in line with the Committee's recommendation to the Stortinget in its opinion. In explaining developments in Europe, I find it important to explain what Norwegian participation in, for example, is. Schengen cooperation provides us with opportunities and limitations, and what challenges we face as a result of the current EU reform processes. I am therefore aiming to promote a comprehensive communication on Norwegian refugee and migration policy in a European perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1720	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2828]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1738	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2828]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1746	The increase shall now be added to the case No. 1-8.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1770	During the debate, Mr Hagen put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked, in the case of operations abroad, to base itself on the principle that, if there is a lack of equipment, exercises and other cost-intensive purposes, proposals for additional appropriations rather than apologies for lack of resources or money’.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1787	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to postpone the planned merger of the press and information department to the Council of State and the Chief of Defence until the matter has been dealt with in the Stortinget.’ The right has announced that they want to vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1836	During the debate, nine proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-7, from Gunvald Ludvigsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 8, by Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on proposal No. 9, from Gunvald Ludwigsen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposal No. 9, from the Christian People's Party and the Left, is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to take the initiative in international cooperation and to make the necessary changes to the laws so as to make it possible to prosecute offences against the law prohibiting sexual mutilation when the offence has been committed by foreigners abroad, even when sexual mutilation is not prohibited in the country in which the offence was committed.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1863	Proposal No. 8, from the Progress Party, is taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government: 1st@item: inlistbox Promote the necessary proposals to introduce mandatory health control of infants with a view to disclosing genital mutilation. 2nd@item: inlistbox Promote proposals on parental accountability for the implementation and exposure of gender. 3rd@item: inlistbox Promote proposals for measures to ensure the criminal prosecution of persons involved in sexual mutilation. 4th@item: inlistbox Promote proposals that the occupational groups covered by the compulsory elimination obligation should not only be obliged to avert sexual mutilation but also be obliged to report/notify if sexual mutilation has taken place.5. Provide easy-to-understand information material for kindergarten staff and school staff at primary and secondary school for how to proceed if they suspect an impending sexual mutilation, if they suspect that sexual mutilation has been carried out, or have revealed mutilation. 6th@item: inlistbox Take the initiative in international cooperation, so that it can be possible to prosecute offences against sexual mutilation, and to amend current laws to allow criminal offences to be committed abroad even in cases where sexual mutilation is not prohibited in the country where the offence is committed.»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1897	Proposals Nos. 1-7, from the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party and the Left are taken up to vote. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to lower the threshold for the obligation to notify the professions covered by the anti-sex legislation.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to impose an obligation on asylum recipients to inform them that sexual harassment is prohibited in Norway, what this prohibition is against, and why gender mutilation is prohibited in Norway.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to put in place a system whereby all those who come to Norway from countries where sexual harassment is practised must sign that they are aware that sexual mutilation is punishable in Norway and that we have a criminal sanctions obligation.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that sexual harassment becomes a theme under the Newborn Health Station Programme.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to ensure that gender impairment becomes a topic during the school start-up survey.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that those who work in the school health service are schooled in what gender harm means, who is at risk of being exposed to it, and how to talk to parents about it.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to consider imposing a notification obligation on the same persons as it currently has an obligation to avert genital mutilation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1961	During the debate, Mr Hoksrud put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to submit to the Stortinget an action plan on enhanced oil protection preparedness during 2008. The size assumes that the plan contains clear and committed funding for upgrading oil protection equipment and vessels.» This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e1988	During the debate, Mr Hansen presented two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to concreteise the extent of the agricultural bureaucracy in a presentation to the Stortinget.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a strategy for the red tape of agriculture in the presentation of the 2008 agricultural settlement.’ These proposals will be replaced by the Committee's voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e2038	A vote will be taken on the proposal by Mr Ib Thomsen on behalf of the Progress Party submitted by Mr Odelstinget’s meeting on 1 April 2008. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to remove the right of pre-emption in respect of the sale of dwellings and apartments.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08.ana.ud2463e2079	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
