ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e22	Two permit applications are available: by the Group of the Party of European Socialists on sick leave for the representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr from 6 February onwards and until further notice by the Group of the European People's Party on sick leave for the representative Erling Sande from 6 February onwards and until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representatives of the Vara, for Akershus County, Tove Nyhus, and for Sogn and Fjordane County, Knut Magnus Olsen, are invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e55	Tove Nyhus and Knut Magnus Olsen are present and will take the seat. The representative, Mr Ingreigt S. Sørfonn, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e60	On behalf of the representatives Hans Olav Syversen, Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund and myself, I have the honour and joy of proposing the liquidation of property taxes on working capital.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e65	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e90	On Monday, the Stortinge received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Life Signe Navarsete, Trond Giske and Bård Vegar Solhjell will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. AscendingSort order for mail groups We then start with the first main questions, from the representative of Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e99	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge. In Norway we lived for many years in the belief that everything was in the best order in Norwegian school. As long as we called it a unity or equality school, it probably evened out social differences. And as long as we spent a lot of resources on it, it probably also led to good learning and basic skills for the students. When the debate on the quality of school was really speeding, at the beginning of the 2000s, it was largely because international studies showed us that not everything was fine in school. Those studies were full of transparency. Transparency about both what's going well and what's challenging is a prerequisite for doing things better. It would be very strange if the results of international studies had come into a closed envelope for the ministry, and then the results had been discussed internally in the ministry. But despite the fact that full transparency is the key to a better school, the government has chosen the opposite strategy: they have chosen to keep public results secret. The government's party, SV, is, of course, a warm supporter of full transparency about all the efforts in school, how many students there are per. learn how many computers there are, etc. Even SV is a hot subject of full transparency even at the individual level of the tax lists. Personally, I'm more concerned with what students learn than with what their parents serve. But that's not SV. Despite the opposition of the Council of State to the transparency of public performance, the Prime Minister in the Question Time last Wednesday had a different approach. On questions from the Right, he actually buried the Minister of Knowledge's line of reasoning towards openness, and he said among other things. that it was just calling, using the Public Service Act and accessing the data. Then my question is: will the Council of State do as the Prime Minister and encourage parents, local authorities and others to call, use the Public Service Act and access the data?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e112	First of all, I'm completely indistinguishable in the description that a previous one has lived in the notion that everything is really just one of them has the unit sphere. On the contrary, I believe that all parties - and I can speak especially for my own, SV - have been concerned that we should improve the school. And then there's a lot of disagreement about the solutions, and one has even made mistakes. But one has been busy with improvement in school. There's still a lucky one. In my view, when it comes to national tests, they are also described incorrectly, because the national tests are not secret or away from public opinion - contrary. They're public. The schools have them, the municipalities have them, the parents get the results, and, as it's correctly pointed out, when newspapers and others ask for them to be published, they are made public, and have to a very large extent been in the media now all over the country. What is the reason why we have chosen to do it differently from the previous government and not actively challenge it to a state-owned ranking? Firstly, when the previous government carried out national tests in 2005, there was strong criticism from the teachers, boycottings from the students and strong professional criticism, and there were great weaknesses in their implementation. A main reason for it was the active ranking. We mean the tests are primarily for improvement in the individual school in the individual municipality, for summarizing the results nationally and for parents to know. In addition, there is considerable experience with this from other countries. The OECD and PISA Director Schleicher have issued a critical opinion in Norway on public disclosure. A lot of research warns against it. Finland has had a version of national tests where they have national tests on an unpublished selection. In Denmark they do not publish. There they actually have a law ban on it. We have not selected that version. It's public, but we don't facilitate ranking from government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e121	Nor was it the case that the previous government made public provision for the ranking of schools. But you wanted full transparency about what was public information. I don't think the Council of State answers the question I'm asking: Is it that the Council of State wants, just as the Prime Minister obviously did last Wednesday, to encourage local teachers and parents at schools other than those where the students go, to actively use the Public Service Act, to visit the Education Directorate and get the results out? Or is it that the Council of State still wants to hold on to the line that SV has had so far, that there should not be transparency about what are public results? Knowledge of the school depends on knowledge of the school. There is nothing in Norwegian school that is improved by keeping the most secret of what is public information. I challenge the Council of State once again to answer the question: Will he follow the Prime Minister's call to use the Public Service Act and access the data? Or does he want to keep the SV's line of not having transparency about public information?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e132	In the government we are quite a few about it: we have encouraged all municipalities and schools to use the results, we have encouraged parents about it, and there is full opportunity to search for transparency in this for those who want it. It has expressed a number of times both the Prime Minister and I.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e137	There will be three follow-up questions - first Jan Tore Sanner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e140	The Council of State has been concerned to point out that there is no crisis in the school, but it seems to me that there must at least be a crisis in school policy when the Council of State is unable to see what action is needed to deal with the results that have been published. The council says he's too open. But he wants to decide who this transparency is for, so it's not long this transparency line until SV stands. I notice otherwise that when the Council of State is going to explain why he is against the transparency line that the previous government laid down, he shows, among other things. for it to be met with boycott rates from students. Then my question is to the Council of State: is it that, with the Swedish Ministry of Knowledge, there are threats to boycotts from students and student organisations to control school policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e145	No, but we're very concerned that national tests will only be a good tool for quality improvement if they're actually carried out in a good way and there's excitement around them. We can conclude that in 2005 there was strong professional criticism, low withdrawal due to boycotting, little support among those working at school, with the result that a non-usable national test result as we are doing now. Now we can just use the results, and the OECD's reports on schooling also point out that there is actually a point that there must be wide dissension about it, and that the type of ranking that you can set up can become a problem by dedicating schools and elephants to being bad. Then there is full openness about the tests, and they are now being used and debated throughout the country in a good way, unlike on previous attempts.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e151	Dagrun Eriksen - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e154	One thing that the Christian People's Party is busy with is the result of these tests, and it shows that there are some challenges left in school. We have recorded that both the Prime Minister and the Council of State have been out and launched new points. I want to challenge the state council especially in high school. Because if it was the case that you listened to the national tests, and changed them when you got feedback, I wish we would now listen to the teachers at the secondary school saying that this works. Once again, they are not mentioned in the policy it is now introduced from the Government. We are not asking for new reforms, we are asking that all those high-school students who have now lost their electoral career and who do not experience a single day of mastering should be seen and heard and have a new beginning so that they can complete their education. Will the State Council now address the secondary school stage?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e159	I agree with the fact that in the years to come, youth education is becoming very important, and several of the measures that have started, and which we are working with, are particularly targeted at the youth school stage. We have e.g. to review a proposal for a change in the competence code of the central subject where there is an in-depth requirement for teachers who have been listening, and we have sent out on hearing suggestions for device of new programme subjects for choices, which just point out that there should be a taste, a taste of both the practical and other subjects and the device at this later stage. So I think it's absolutely right that we have great challenges, not only in the youth school, but also in the secondary school, and probably in the past, to get a school that hits everyone, both those who have practical facilities, and those who have their strength in more theoretically correct learning and subjects.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e164	Anders Anundsen - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e167	It is kind of nice to witness what kind of affection this debate has become for the Government, but I am now pleased that the Council of State agrees with the Prime Minister that the results of the national tests should be public. So this has been reduced to a discussion about whether the state should actively or passively facilitate the ranking of schools, and then at least we have come a little further. Thus, the following is stated in Nettavisen on 4 February: ‘The online newspaper is currently publishing the results of the national tests. We know that the numbers do not show the whole truth about the Norwegian school, but used correctly they are a formidable tool to make the school better." Then follows the ranking of the best schools. And there's going to be a little bit of a strange starting point when the Council of State thinks it's more right that the media rank the school than that the government provides for a ranking that's at least right with the public eye. Does the Council of State agree that the correct use of this tool now provided by the Net Newspaper can be positive?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e177	So what we're doing now is we have public national tests, but we don't facilitate ranking. It should not be surprising, because that is what the Soria Moria Declaration says. There is a used word 'it' not to facilitate rankings. And then we're going to use all over the country the national tests just to improve the school. They are used in county municipalities and municipalities to discuss the school, they are used at national level and contribute to a large school debate, many parents get the results for their children and look at them, and around schools they are discussed. It is precisely one of their aims, that they should avoid debate, as well as a systematic approach to what the representative refers to, look behind the pure ranking and provide information on the potential for improvement of individual municipalities and individual schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e182	Odd Einar Doorroom - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e185	Openness about what we get at school is crucial for the Left. We've seen it, for example. in Oslo School, with systematic pressure on clear learning objectives and transparency, that there have been dramatic positive changes, which surely delight everyone, and from which I am sure the Council of State will draw experience. But now let's look ahead, at what's going on to ensure a good school. The left is concerned that it requires good teachers, many enough teachers, and then we clearly prioritise: then we will have systematic further training that gives teachers competence, regularly, as one has in Sweden, and we will have recruitment plans for teachers. We have heard several times that both the Council of State and the Prime Minister, no later than a week ago, have a range of wishes for the school. When the Left has an opinion and knows what we want, I'm interested in knowing: what does the Council of State want to do when giving priority to the budget heads of the school? What are the priorities of the Council of State 1, 2 and 3 - not in terms of objectives and values, but in terms of budgets?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e190	First I want to show that the government of these two years has already done a lot. In addition to following up the Knowledge Lift, there will be several hours now. New mandatory screening tests shall be carried out in the second stage. A large amount of money has been paid for continuing training in connection with the Knowledge Lift and other things. So here and elsewhere, I've been pointing to many of the things you're working on -- the teacher's role and the teacher's education, further and further education, schooling, a message about quality. But I think I have to be allowed to come back at a later stage with an exact prioritization of the amount of money to school in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e197	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e200	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport and Communications a question. Despite large insurances from the Prime Minister before the last elections, this government imposes sanctions on large and medium-sized cities that do not use restrictions and new and increased taxes on the drivers. Among other things, it provides for a criminal response in such a way as to reduce access to public funds for cities that do not impose the type of restrictions and new taxes. It may seem that the current government is unable at all to find positive means or measures to solve the traffic problems in our large and medium-sized cities. If you are dependent on a car in the future, you will have to pay both bomb taxes, cow taxes, parking taxes, etc. As a driver, you have to pay for the operation of public transport in large cities in the future. My challenge to the Council of State is: Is it possible, is there any ability, or is there any thought at all in the department to think of a positive tool to solve the traffic challenges facing our big cities? I think about, among other things. a comprehensive development and improvement of the ring roads around our major cities, the construction of a multi-city entrance parking space, greater State contribution to collective development, public transport in the major cities, or, for example, the assessment of tax reduction if, for example, the employer. pay monthly cards for their employees. Or is it that the most important thing for the sitting government is tax, fiscal taxes, without thinking that we might not be able to solve the traffic challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e208	First of all, I must remind you that I am a Minister of Transport and Communications, not a Minister of Transport and Communications. It's in Stortinget one has changed the name of the committee, but I'm still Minister of Transport and I'm very happy about it. So until the big challenges we have in the big cities, with queues, climate problems, and not least with local climate emissions from car traffic, which means that in a city like Oslo, between 300 and 600 people die every year as a result of local climate problems. There are actually more than those who got involved in road traffic every year, but unfortunately it's got a little bit of attention. It's one of the reasons why the government is quite clear, along with the majority here in the Storting through the climate agreement, that it's not enough just to build a road. So do we. Nor is it enough just to build up more public transport, because we do too. We have, among other things: double the effort on rail investment, which is particularly important in large cities. We are also forced to try to change people's habits. Any experience from large cities in other countries suggests that some restrictive measures will have to be taken. This does not mean that we should not have an offensive bet on the positive measures that are requested here. We're working on access parking. We are looking at whether this is a positive incentive for, among other things, employers to enable them to use public transport instead of a car. Among other things, there are work buses that are put in several places in the country. We are looking at how we can strengthen public transport. In the climate agreement, there is a doubling of the pavement arrangements for the major cities, which should help to improve the collective effort in cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e215	I record that the Minister for Transport does not find any direct new, positive measures. If it is that taxes and taxes should improve the environment and reduce climate emissions, Norway should have been the world’s best already. Although we have the world's highest taxes and taxes on our car park, it has not helped until now. That's because we lack infrastructure construction. Let me challenge the Council of State in another area. The NTP proposal states: the high need for the development of the road network and the economic planning framework mean that the use of bomb tax will continue to be necessary. The full potential for bomb tax should be exploited in traffic-tight areas on which it is based. My question is: Does the Council agree with this, and does this mean that 100 pst have to be based in large and medium-sized cities? to bomb taxes, taxes on cows and other taxes to finance their infrastructure, or will the Government contribute at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e224	This government has increased the limits by SEK 1.5 billion. There is more to it than the Progress Party could dream of in its comparison with the previous government. This shows that we are investing massively in both public transport and road construction in this country. What's in the draft from the ETAs to the National Transport Plan is exactly that, it's input from the subjects. What government councils and governments should think about it, Sandberg and Stortinget will know when we present our big message before the turn of the year this year. In time, these drafts are to be heard in all states, so that we get their input, and then the government will have to deal with the plan. Today I have nothing else to report in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e231	There will be follow-up questions - first Arne Sortevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e234	Unfortunately, there are already many toll-financed projects linked to the largest cities. These projects are also affected by price increases for different reasons. The government's signal is that when the price increases, the government's contribution to toll-funded projects does not increase. I will mention in particular the E39 between Os and Rådal, just outside Bergen, and I can also point to Oslopak 3. This, of course, is considered grossly unreasonable. Can the Council of State promise to clean up, so that the agreed State share of project costs remains the same for projects to be financed by tolls, even if they have to be implemented at a higher price?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e243	When the commitment of a project changes, as we see it doing in some road and rail projects today because of a huge increase in costs, then one has to go in and look at the whole project again. This also means that there is often a need for a new dialogue with local governments, and a need for a breakdown to enable the project to continue with the limits to which the Council of State has to adhere in the budget. The question is often asked, Should the project be stopped pending new frames or should the project continue? In most cases, there is a solution that allows a project to continue, and in some cases it has increased the length of the toll project or increased toll rates. If it's inconceivable, there'll be differences of opinion, depending on what view you have of tolls, but I can't guarantee today that one in the future will not enter into that kind of settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e250	Borghild Tenden - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e253	The Soria Moria Declaration of the Government Parties states that public transport should become a real alternative to the use of private cars in urban areas and that more attention should be paid to public transport. The proposal for NTP exposes a number of important collective projects, such as: North-Jearen city track and new double track Oslo-Ski, which is a prerequisite for Oslopackak 3. Will the Council of State ensure that the Government keeps the promises and increases the effort to develop public transport and the public network in urban areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e260	This government has shown that she is doing what she promises. We have increased the budget in line with Soria Moria. We also have increased efforts on public transport. Not least we have had a lot of money on the railways during this period. What comes out of the National Transport Plan and its proposals - which, once again, I have to remind you, are precisely that: the professionals' proposals - I must be allowed to respond when the Government submits its report before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e265	Øyvind Halleraker - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e268	Yes, that is the plan of the departments, but the plan is more likely to be described as a maintenance plan than an offensive national transport plan. It also contains paradoxes, such as the paradox that there is great expectation of the collective effort of the big cities, while recently these have been deprived of responsibility and instruments by the same government. In addition, the reward system has actually been reduced, and the doubling just mentioned by the Council of State has become known after the climate agreement. On the road we record a new attitude towards tolls, where state-owned people are now talking about taking out the toll potential to a greater extent. In other words, the government is leaving cities to finance its national and tribal roads. The question then arises: Does the Council of State still recognise a responsibility for building important roads in and around the big cities?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e276	The Council of State assumes responsibility for both the city and the country in respect of trade. And what I mean is, the Council of State has shown in practical action, not least by meeting the broad majority when it comes to Oslopack 3. In a short time, we are going to present a proposition that is step 1 of Oslopacket 3, which will be a particularly important contribution, where the state will of course contribute to the development of traffic in the Oslo area. We have also been in constructive dialogue with both Bergen and Stavanger when it comes to the urban railways, and must continue to do so. We have not reduced the paycheck. She is as she has been, and shall double in next year's budget. We have a double railway effort, which not least benefits the big cities, and we do road construction both in the city and in the country. There is no doubt that the toll potential is greater where there are a lot of people, because one can have low rates that burden the individual less than that. passes the boom in Springland and pays 175 kroner. I think people in other areas might also have stumbled if one had received such rates.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e285	Jan Sahl - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e288	A prerequisite for addressing the challenges facing big cities is that the current framework, the 2007 framework, needs to be significantly addressed. I assume that the Minister for Transport also agrees. In addition, an environmental settlement has been reached, to which the Minister also pointed out, which has agreed that the growth of railway investment will increase more than the growth of road traffic. The reward scheme for public transport will be doubled as early as 2009, as the Christian People's Party has fought for, but as the government that is sitting cut off when the 2007 budget was presented. However, it was corrected in the revised version. It also says that the allocation should be made depending on limiting the measures for passenger car traffic. Then, of course, we are disappointed that the double-track Oslo-Ski is not in place, but the Christian People's Party assumes that if the minister goes in for 20 pst. State framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e297	Now I'm not quite sure what the question was, because this was more an outline of what the Christian People's Party has done and wants to do. However, I am pleased that we have a good dialogue with the Christian People's Party on matters of social affairs. The Central Party and the Christian People's Party have often - and most often - come together on important issues in this area. I hope that we will be able to have good dialogue between the parties in Stortinget, so that we can have a broad agreement on the national transport plan that will enable us to ensure a broad and good follow-up to the plan and agree on the key priorities. It is clear that the Council of State and the Government have a job to do in the future in connection with the draft that is before them, with some important projects as per. today not in.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e302	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e305	I have a question for the Minister of Knowledge. The government has sent out a proposal for changes to CRLs that have produced strong reactions. The Christian People's Party believes that human rights should be respected and that the judgment of the Human Rights Court should be taken into account. But the judge of the subject we had in 1997, and here the government has gone much further than what is needed to make changes. We believe that we should have a voice and open subject, and that parents should be safe when they send their children to school. But that doesn't mean we have to put a line over our millennial cultural heritage, where Christianity and our nation have close relations. We now know that there is a flow in with a hearing response. The deadline expired on 4 February, including, inter alia: there are many municipalities that have sent a copy to us in the Christian People's Party and told that they are going to go against the proposal. This applies to both representatives from the government parties and the entire municipal government around. At the same time, the Directorate for Education sends out proposals for a new curriculum in the new RLE subject - a subject which has not yet been adopted and in which the amendments to the law were still out of the way of consultation - and changes have been introduced there which have not yet been adopted in the Stortinget. This is highly provocative in many people. I think that's reason to ask: is the hearing we now have on the KRL subject, real, or has the government already decided? Will the Council of State listen to all the recordings and counter performances that are now coming? How did he intend to handle the hearing, and how did the directorate intend to handle the consultation on the new curriculum that has already been sent out?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e316	The background to the changes in the CRL subject that have now been put to the hearing is, as the representative is aware, the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights this summer. This judgment points to several aspects of the CRL subject that violate human rights. He points to the purpose paragraph, which we are working with now in another context. Then he also points to some concrete things about today's legal text that is still in the legal text, and then he points to the soundness of the subject. It is quite right that there have been changes in the subject since 1997, but the substantial change is about the exemption rules in connection with a judgment in the UN Committee on Human Rights, while the EMD judgment thus points to both the law and the integrity of the subject. It is our clear assessment that it is necessary to make changes to the subject in the light of the judgment. The government thinks we have to have a schooling in Norway that is clearly in line with human rights, not least when it's the subject of promoting respect and dialogue between different groups and life views. Then I can confirm that the consultation process is real. The proposal for a new curriculum has been put to the consultation with the rest of the House on treatment in the Stortinget. The background is that the curriculum should come in time to be used for the next school year. It is necessary because of the deadlines we have received, that the changes in the CRL subject which may be made by the Storting must apply from the next school year. I'm going to be thoroughly involved in hearing statements, both from those who are disunity and those who are some of the government's views. I'm going to review this and present it to Stortinget, and I also expect to have a good dialogue with Stortinget in the further process of this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e323	In the context of some media interviews where people have expressed concern about what the Government has presented, both the Council of State and the State Secretary have expressed a lack of flexibility, one will not notice significant changes in the subject. It is clear that then it will be very special to refer to the major changes that have to be made because of the judgment, when this will not produce results. We're going to use the same textbooks, we're going to have the same education of the CRL teachers who're going to go out and teach. At all, it is claimed that this will not create major changes. I believe that the Council of State needs to clarify: Will there be major changes or will there not be major changes in this subject? And in view of the unrest among peoples, does it really mean that Christianity’s position should be weakened?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e330	It is quite clear from the proposal we have sent to the hearing that Christianity is still to have the greatest place in the teaching of religions. It's quite natural with our history and tradition. Then it's true that one will not notice big changes for the individual student or school in the CRL subject. It's also very clear when you look at your curriculum. The background for it is that when we go through the textbooks, we find that they are good and can be used. In general, the practice and teaching of the subject are good, but some changes are proposed in the curriculum. However, it has been particularly necessary to propose changes in legislation, such as that there should be no possibility of shifting skills objectives in the profession. But one will not notice major changes in the subject for each student or school.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e337	Ola T. Loan - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e340	Speaking of the CRL subject, the Council of State has repeatedly expressed its distrust of the teachers teaching in the CRL subject by saying that it will now stop preaching. Unlike the Council of State, my impression is that today's CRL teachers are very aware that CRL is not a subject for preaching, and the Christian People's Party has repeatedly tried both in the budget debate and in the Question Time to get the Council of State to answer questions about this, without success. Now he's going to have another chance. Can the Council of State confirm that the text contained in the old training law - that is, what works today - and what the Government has now sent out to the hearing on the subject of preaching - is exactly the same, that there is no change? There has been no earlier opportunity to preach, and that should not be the case. No matter what the result is, can the Council confirm that it has not been allowed to preach in the CRL subject that we have today?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e346	I can confirm that. As far as I'm concerned, I also did it here just before Christmas. In other words, in the existing subject a report is not to be reported; in the new subject a report is not to be reported. The existing subject shall be a knowledge subject; the new subject shall be a knowledge subject. So I believe that the Christian People's Party is aware that something from the background that this discussion has gone as far as to a UN Committee on Human Rights and to the European Court of Human Rights is a complaint from a group of parents, among others. on purely practical episodes and events and examples of practice. Therefore, in my view, it is very important to be clear that there should not be an opening for field service. As I said before, the main picture is that our textbooks are good and the practice is good, but we have to be very clear that all practices must be in line with the intentions of the subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e351	Odd Einar Doorroom - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e354	First two pillars. The Council of State and the Left have in common that we should deal with the Court of Human Rights, and I assume that we also have in common that we agree that the Norwegian society is characterized by Christian and humanist traditions and values. Then we get to the subject, which is knowledge and not preaching. Then we are very concerned that the subject also in the knowledge dissemination has to deal with the fact that the Norwegian society is characterized by Christian and humanist traditions and values. It should not mean qualitatively putting one faith in front of the other, in order to have respect for the peculiar nature of a faith or a view of life, comes out on its own basis. The Council of States can confirm that the quantitative value of the tradition, the history and the background we have in our country, and who lives in our country, is the condition that will lead to Christianity still having a very heavy place - not just the largest place, as the Council of State said, but a place that occupies such a space in Norwegian history, previously expressed in percentage terms, that it is, for example. can be ensured by objectives of competence?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e363	Yes, I can confirm that. It is explicitly stated in the draft consultation that Christianity should have the quantitative majority of the place in teaching. What I mean is natural and completely understandable in the light of the history and tradition we have, and the dominant role that religion has had in Norwegian society. But as the representative says, we cannot qualitatively discriminate against religions in any way. So it sounds like the Left and the Government are some people on this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e368	Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e371	As many people have experienced, the EMD judgment relates to the subject as it was when it was introduced in 1997, and the running-in period that continued. Many changes have occurred since that time. Among other things, the reference in the Training Act to the purpose paragraph has been deleted. It was removed in 2005. And one of the points that the EMD points to in its judgment is just the connection between the Christian purpose paragraph and the KRL subject. The Council of State was about to begin to hurry. There was also something about the representative Dagrun Eriksen, that the government seems to be in a hurry. But is it necessary to be so hasty that there is no time to wait for Storting's treatment of a new purpose paragraph, which can largely correct much of the criticism that remains relevant from the judgment of the EMD?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e378	We are now working in the Government with proposals for a new purpose paragraph. The objective is to submit a proposal to the Stortinget during the spring or, if not for a long time, and to the Stortinget to decide on both a proposal for a new purpose paragraph and the changes in the CRL subject that have now been sent to the hearing. It's natural for one to discuss it in context. I would like to emphasise that the EMD judgment clearly requires changes in the CRL subject itself beyond the purpose paragraph, including: because the judgment points both to concrete aspects of the legal text that regulates the CRL subject today, to the integrity of the subject and to some minor aspects that we have proposed to change. Therefore, regardless of the purpose paragraph, there is also a need to make changes to the CRL subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e385	Anders Anundsen - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e388	The KRL subject was a broad compromise in Stortinget in its time. I expect that we still agree that the Storting should handle the whole, including the changes needed in the new subject. Therefore, I am a little surprised when we now experience that the Directorate has sent a draft new curriculum to the new RLE subject at the hearing before the Stortinget has been close to dealing with the matter. I'm aware that we have a majority government, but this seems to the Progress Party to be very close to a majority arrogance that is simply not acceptable. We hear that the Council of States is constantly pointing out that the changes are a consequence of Norway’s conviction, and that is correct. But will the Council of State also be equally clear that the changes proposed by the Government in the draft consultation for the subject do not go beyond what the judgment requires of us?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e395	First of all, I must say that we have received a judgment against us from the EMD - which is a very serious matter, and which does not happen often - which also tempts us to follow up the judgment. This is the background for the curriculum being sent to consultation with acknowledgment on the treatment of the Storting. Of course, it is the Storting that makes the final decision, provides guidance and determines what the new curriculum will look like. And that's right, as they say, the background for the changes we're now proposing is the verdict. We've made changes that the government of my mind is necessary to follow up the verdict.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e402	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e406	My question goes to the Minister for Transport. Former Minister of Transport Torild Skogsholm received strong criticism from the Senterpartiet to carry out the necessary conversions in Posten, conversions that would ensure good postal services. The current State Council and Vice-Chairman of the Center Party were themselves exceptionally hard and scratched in the criticism. In a letter to the Nations of 23 August 2004, the Council of State described the policy as anti-diversity and called for an investigation that revealed the consequences of the policy pursued in recent years. Now the Council of State itself makes extensive adjustments in the Post, with the same justification as Torild Skogsholm. Is it not high time that the Minister of Transport of the Central Party now asked former Minister of Transport Torild Skogsholm for an apology for the harsh criticism of the necessary transitions in the Post?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e415	I have registered in the media, after the government sent out the message about Post Norway's operation, criticism from the Left against the Center Party doing this, while at the same time the Left agrees that this is absolutely necessary. The left has the power to make different contributions to election struggles and otherwise as a kind of proof that the Center Party has always been against post conversion. To that I would say that it was Johan J. Jacobsen who made the first conversions in the Post. In 1998, with the central government, the second wave of closures came after the first, which came in the mid-1990s under the Labour Party's rule. So the Center Party has done this before. In connection with the Stoltenberg I government’s activity message for the Post on the closure of 6,000 jobs, the Centre Party did not have a minority comment once. So I want to ask the representative to see what we've done in Stortinget. Jorunn Ringstad was the only speaker from the Central Party in the debate on 24 February 2004. She was a case spokesperson, and I want to mention three points that she took up. First, regional transmission quality, which we asked the government to clean up. They didn't, we do. The second was the Avisporto, which rose rapidly under the previous government, and which the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Culture made a caste between them. This government takes hold of it and cleans up. Thirdly, she raised the return requirement of 10.8 p.m. for the parent company, which we thought was too high. There was nothing done about it. We're doing something about that. So we follow what we've said in Stortinget. We follow up what we have said in the notes. I'd like to ask the representative to be clear about what the Center Party has been doing in Stortinget. She will receive a copy of the article by Jorunn Ringstad, who held the Stortinget as a lawyer when the message was up. Jorunn Ringstad was busy with exactly the same thing that this council is busy with, that everyone in this country is going to get mail six days a week, that we are going to have equal postage on important shipments in this country, and that we are going to make sure that there is no return that is the most important thing for the Post, but quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e422	I thank the Minister for Transport for the answer. I'm going to be very tidy. I'm going to be so tidy that I'm going to quote what Minister of Transport Liv Signe Navarsete said on June 9, 2006: ‘Unlike the previous government, this government has an offensive work against the EU in order to get into matters early and influence where we want decisions other than those to be adopted.’ Yesterday, the Transport and Communications Committee at the Post Information Meeting, and then the group leader, Dag Mejdell, said the following: ‘Later liberalisation in Norway than in the EU-vest may have a significant negative impact on the Nordic Strategy of the Post.’ Who do we trust? Should we trust the Head of the Post Group, or should we trust the Minister of Transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e437	As a rule, the majority shall rely on and relate to the Minister for Transport. If the previous government had got through to its policy, we had already carried out a liberalisation in the Post. This would result in a loss for the Post on just over 600-700 million. kr, prescribed by the Post itself. The number I have. At that time, the state had to enter and purchase services, both over the previous year's budget and this year's budget, which would then go beyond other important trade measures. In the message we announce that we are willing to go in and purchase services from the Post Office. Now, the EU has joined forces for liberalisation since 2011, and I assume that it was the liberalisation of the Post she talked about. We have been active in postponing liberalisation from 2009 to 2011, and have closed it. We've closed down early in the process and got a two-year postponement, which means we can get action rooms to assess how to secure people throughout this country -- the long-distance, curly, amazing country we live in -- mail every day of the week, and that's what I'm working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e442	There will be follow-up questions - first Gunnar Kvassheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e445	The Council of State is entitled not to criticise the decision concerning Post Left. What we've been criticising is a repeated breach of promises. We've criticized that the Center Party says they're going to do one thing, but they're doing something completely different. The centre party made it quite clear that the post office was not going to be a store. But they are continuing the policy of the previous government. The centre party promised cheap power contracts to the industry, which would secure the jobs in the districts - they are unable to deliver. The Minister of Agriculture has said that every farm being laid down is a defeat. Farming is being reduced to a large extent. On the area by area, the Center Party does something quite different than what they said they would do. Now, this is a crown example of the textbook on Lifting Breaks. Does the Council of State understand that many district voters feel trickled by the Central Party, which is doing something quite different in areas beyond what they promised they would do?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e452	I will answer for what was picked up, which I am responsible for, that is, easy transportation. I am quite clear that the Central Party in the post message that I sent out is fully committed to the programme that we were going to choose in 2005. I have a copy of my program. The representative can have it. We guarantee postal services throughout the country, a network of postal services. There's nothing to say about being a post office, but that we need postal services. I mentioned earlier the post from Jorunn Ringstad, which was very good, which is on the web, and which one should read. It also states that it must be ensured that one should have services for the Post in each municipality. It is not said to be a post office. She didn't say that. It's not in our program either. But we are busy ensuring, in the short and long term, postal services to everyone throughout this country. At least this is better than in the EU, which now says five days a week. In Sweden, a four-day week discusses accommodation. We'll have six days with a stay. This includes: what I am eager to ensure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e459	Bord Hoksrud - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e462	It's a very committed Minister of Transport. I think it is good that the mail message is now finally coming, after the processing of it in Stortinget has been exposed several times, including. It was last year. I think it's a little special, when you remember the debate the last time, and when we've heard representatives of the Central Party over the country paint on how terrible it is that you disagree with any closure of the post office, that it's a central party council that's going to drop up to 124 post offices. The representative, Lundtigen, has even been out and said that if a single post office is put down, there will be a district uprising. Then I get to ask the Council of State: Is she satisfied with that? And who really is the winner of the fight now -- is it the Minister of Transport who is satisfied, or is it Per Olaf Lundtigen who will be pleased when the district uprising has come and perhaps the Government has to go back? The big question is: is it that the communication now available will enable the Post to meet the free competition that comes from 2011, when one hears here that there is disagreement between the Group Head of the Post and the State Council of Navarsete?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e471	I assume the group manager will listen to the general meeting if there is a question. I don't think it's going to be -- I think one has misunderstood what has been said. And in this case, we're going to have to clean it up. In any case, I realized that there was a good meeting with the Post yesterday, from which I have also received a report. When it comes to Posten and what is said about district uprisings, I don't know those statements. I've had a good conversation with Per Olaf Lundtigen. We agree that the important thing is to ensure that people get the basic postal services every day, and that they get close. I have received many messages from people in the district saying that they think this is quite ok, because now they can reach the post office after the post office had otherwise been closed. I'm not happy that many people have to find another job, but as a government council from a modern, forward-looking party, I take over the changes that have happened in society - a user, among others. Internet and then present this message to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e480	Trond Helleland - to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e484	A modern, forward-looking party must also take on board the fact that there has actually been a change in the EU, by now in favour of full liberalisation from 2011 - including in respect of correspondence below 50 grams. An exception is made for new Eastern European countries from 2013. It was a good meeting with the Post yesterday. In that meeting, a number of plans were presented in which it was stated in white that for the Post it is necessary to win the Nordic customers in order to be strong in Norway. The Posten has established subsidiaries in Sweden and Denmark. These will be excluded from the market due to a clause in the EU Directive if full liberalisation is not open in Norway at the same time. Will the Council of State ensure that the Post in Norway gets steady legs on - by ensuring that Norway liberalises the postal market at the same time as Sweden and Denmark?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e491	When we get the text from the EU, probably in April, we will go through it carefully and, of course, go in offensively and provide the Norwegian people with good postal services. That's the most important thing. The post as a group is only a means of securing good postal services for people in this country. It sounds like some people forget about it. In this work, of course, we should also consider the future of the Post. The post is a large Nordic logistics group, with a very positive development. What is contained in the so-called reprosity clause is that if we do not allow Danish postal operators to operate in Norway, Norwegian operators are excluded from Denmark, we must include in the assessments to be made. I am very pleased that the government has been allowed to postpone liberalisation for four years in proportion to what the previous government wanted. It has saved the Norwegian state too much money over the state budget. I will enter offensively to ensure both good services and good terms for the Post in the future postal system.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e500	Jan Sahl - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e503	I notice that the temperature in the Minister's posts is rising significantly when it comes to defending what has been strongly opposed in the past. I would like to continue with the quotations from the debate in connection with the conversion under the previous government, but it would have no end, so I shall leave it - and go on to the realities. So you put down 124 post offices - and it's not just a matter of small district post offices. Some major agglomerations, small urban areas and growth municipalities where business is heavily involved in keeping the post office. The Minister sees that the biggest problem with what you are doing now is that you are weakening business opportunities for shipping, and that you are also weakening the Post Office, because competitors are ready to take over what you are putting down now, for example. in the municipality of Røros or in the municipality of Ørnes in Meløy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e510	It's funny that the representative from the Christian People's Party is busy with this now, but never have our busy time with it before. Unlike the previous government, we have seen clear conditions for the Post to lay down an office. One of the most important conditions is that business should be guaranteed better conditions than they had with Post in Store before, because they haven't been good enough. Some of the first thing I got was that the work done by the previous government was too bad. That is why we have gone in and have to ensure better conditions for mass mail and for retrieving and delivering mail. Fetching and bringing services are to be created. Of course, business should also be involved in the processes. A post office is not created without dialogue with local authorities and with them, of course - and also in connection with the project we have with NAV. Unlike the previous government, this government has taken heights to improve services for people both in the district and in the slightly larger places that miss the post office and get good alternatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e519	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e522	According to Today's Business on January 28, 2008, 11 of 20 directors and sample managers have 58 p.m. --appointed by Minister of Culture Trond Giske red-green political background, from the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party. The other nine are unwritten journals politically. So there's no one with a clear anchoring in or background from the non-socialist side. This reminds me of the time when the party book had to be in order to have important positions in society, especially in public. Communists in the old Soviet and GDR would be proud that their legacy is held in the claim of the seated government and the state council Trond Giske. I'm not saying that political background should exclude anyone from participation. There are many capable people in politics, but it's not that there are people with the Red-Green Party book alone who are suitable. With such a system, society is missing out on many capable people, and we are weakening democracy. The cultural sector is not alone in this problem. There are many examples in health and transport and in the field of child and gender equality. To mention some examples from the cultural sector, we have a former Minister of Culture who is the director of the Opera. We have a former State Secretary who has become director of the Tromsø Symphony Orchestra, and we have a former SV politician who runs the Fund for Performing Artists. We have workers' party members in the board of directors in the NRK and in the media department. My question to the Council of State is, Is this a problem? In that case, what does he want to do with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e531	If the description of the representative Knudsen had been correct, it might have been a problem. He says that the other members of the board are unwritten political journals. But the Vice-Chairman of the Broadcasting Board, Valgerd Svarstad Haugland, former Minister of Culture of the Christian People's Party, member of the Ringve Museum's board Anne Kathrine Slungård, former rapporteur of the Right, and member of the Kristiansand Symphony Orchestra's board of directors Bjørg Vallevik, former rapporteur of the Right, are hardly unwritten political journal. We have also had and have leaders in different governments within cultural institutions that have backgrounds from bourgeois parties. The most important thing when we appoint board members is not party membership, it's that they have competence, qualification and knowledge of the field and understand what the board member's job is. The most important thing is perhaps that governments are broadly composed, that they have people with different skills, different backgrounds, legal and economic competence. But there is also no disqualification that one has insight into social life and political experience.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e538	What I actually talked about were sample managers and directors, not board members. And there's the statistics very clear, it's about eleven out of twenty appointed by the Council of State. It's not just the Progress Party that sees this as a problem. Professor of Public Law Eivind Smith says to Today's Business that this is quite problematic. He says, ‘If you receive appointments that can reasonably be said to be significant party politics, you lose quality by not appointing the best candidates. The more fundamental is the failure of one of the pillars of our governance system, which is the need to distinguish policy from administration.’ I would like to ask the Council of State: does he not see that there are problems here with this necessary distinction between politics and administration?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e548	Firstly, sitting on a board of a cultural institution is not administration; it is a executive governing body appointed by the ministry and other institutions and organisations having the right to appoint. So here is the distinction between the artistic freedom of the institution and the governing body, between the board and a director of the theater, an orchestra, a director of the museum, and so on. If people were appointed only after a party book, it would be a big problem. The most important thing is the qualifications. The previous government appointed e.g. former Right-Rapporteur Marvin Wiseth as Chairman of the Tread Layer Theatre, former Right-Rapporteur Erlend Rian of Tromsø as Chairman of the Tromsø Symphony Orchestra - competent people with qualifications that make them do a good job in these positions. They never got any criticism from the opposition at that time, because they fulfilled the role of the board of directors. That's how we'll continue to find good people who have a commitment to the sector and who can do a good job. It's the most important thing when we appoint people in cultural life.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e555	There will be three follow-up questions - first Karin S. Woldseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e559	It is very tempting now to ask how many competent progress party politicians have been able to find, because I guess there aren't very many cultural leaders in the Progress Party are represented. On the other hand, during the budgetary procedure on 12 December, the Council of State said that a free and independent cultural life can be combined very well with various parties in government. I did an Internet search on free cultural life and Trond Giske and got 999 hits. After today it's probably 1000, I think. It's nice to talk about freedom in most parties. However, the Council of State ensures strategically that its party colleagues are placed in important positions. Is it what the Council of State calls a free and independent cultural life, that you have the party book in order when you are appointed by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e568	It is very tempting to answer the question of how many competent party leaders exist in cultural life. Unfortunately, for many years the Progress Party has had little interest in cultural policy, and there is enough under-representation of people in the advanced party segment of cultural life in general in relation to the kind of upliftment the Progress Party has in large-scale elections. It may be a lead for the Progress Party to engage more in important cultural matters. The representative Woldseth asks questions about a free cultural life. For me, the most important strategy for providing a free cultural life is the greatest increase in cultural resources in history. It gives authors greater freedom to publish books, it gives film people greater freedom to make movies, it gives musicians greater freedom to perform their concerts, tours, record recordings, etc., it gives theatres greater freedom to create performances, it gives people in Norway a better and wider cultural life. Not least, it gives us a volunteer billion, greater freedom for all the organizations and people involved in volunteering.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e575	President, can I just...
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e580	No, no, no. Olemic Thommessen - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e583	This is a recurring and a little desertless discussion. I believe to have quite solid evidence that our government had a greater political breadth in its appointments than what the current government has. I would argue that a more important discussion is precisely what the Council of State was about to finalize, namely, the real freedom of cultural life. The Council of State indicated that there would be an increased allocation. We have pointed out by many crossroads that increased appropriations also have since the focus and commitment to the ministry became stronger. We also know that in the annual allocation notes, there are leads. Obviously, when you have at the top of this also the appointment of members of the board, it becomes a sum that creates very close ties to the department. The council points out, quite correctly, that there is a boundary between the artistic repertoire and the work of the board. Nevertheless, it is clear that the outer packaging means something about how the institutions are developed and operated.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e592	The role of the Governing Boards is to ensure both the overall strategies for the organisation and the interests of the institutions in a cultural policy as a whole. My approach to this is that our most important step is to appoint good, competent directors. But then we're going to reduce that governance dialogue and the continuous instruction of the institutions through the period that different cultural ministers from different governments, really, have stood for. I think we're going to give these institutions greater freedom, we're going to give them less bureaucracy, and we're going to give them less time for meetings and administration and more resources and time for cultural, creative activities. Although we have increased the cultural budget by over $1 billion since the government change, we have to be aware of how we spend the money, make sure that this money actually comes out in a better and wider cultural offer to most people in Norway. It's the most important thing. So if the representative Olemic Thommes wants us to reduce bureaucracy, I'm very much in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e599	Step Skei Grande - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e602	Obviously, you don't have to have such a strong dialogue with the institutions, if you make sure you have your party people there. Nor do I suspect the Council of State to have a clear strategy behind what he does. He has clearly expressed in the budget debate here a desire to govern the institutions - also what plays are being set up, and all of that - and of course you do best with your party people. But if we put away the debate on the party books, it's about the competence you're asking for, because it's clear that the Council of States is highly valued. My question is: when an institution has a desire to associate itself with a particular type of competence - whether it is legal, marketing or otherwise - is it at all a hope that the Council of State, when he has found those who have the party book in order, can look for the competence that the institutions also want and that they have said they want to join?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e609	First, that the Ministry of Culture should have some idea of what plays are being set up, depending on its own unfairness. It's the theater director -- not even the director of the theater -- who decides which plays to set up. Whether the institution itself can relate to legal or economic competence: of course it can. An administration or management of an institution can hire people they need to gain competence. But it cannot be the institution itself that has to choose its own board of directors. We have to take responsibility for that. It is we who make elections every four years, who are responsible to the voters for what kind of cultural policy is pursued in Norway, including how the governance mechanisms of the various institutions are. Institutions may not choose their own boards. Who, then, is responsible to the voters for the cultural policy pursued? We are given that responsibility, which is, in fact, the responsibility of major elections every four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e619	The oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e625	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. - It is deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Questions 1 and 2 from the representatives Svein Flätten and Per Roar Bredvold respectively to the Minister for Finance are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 7, from the representative of Gunnar Kvassheim to the Minister for the Environment and Development, has been transferred to the Minister for Oil and Energy. The question will be answered by the Minister for Agriculture and Food on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy, who has been removed. At the request of the Minister for Agriculture and Food, this question is moved and answered before Question 18, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 12, from the representative of Mr Dagrun Eriksen to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, will be answered by the Minister for Culture and the Church who directs him. Questions 15 and 17 from the representatives of Laila Davay and Elisabeth Aspaker, respectively, of the Minister for Health and Welfare, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Health and Care, who has left. Question 16, from the representative of Vigdis Giltun to the Minister of Health and Welfare, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e662	These questions are put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e668	I have allowed myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Research and Higher Education: «More reports conclude that it is professionally correct that the Veterinary College and the Veterinary Institute remain in the research environment in Oslo. The areas of food safety and fisheries and farming are growing, and the veterinary environment is currently an integral part of the biomedical research community and has close cooperation with the Food Authority and Folkehelsa. What professional assessments form the basis of the decision to move the veterinary environment in Oslo to Ås?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e677	The future organisation of Norway's veterinary college and the location of the Veterinary College and the Veterinary Institute has been thoroughly investigated over several years. The case started with a proposal in the United Kingdom to convert the former Norwegian agricultural high school into a green university, where a merger of the Agricultural high school and the Veterinary high school was also to be assessed. The government put down a sample, led by Professor Kaare Norum, who unanimously supported an organisational merger, but where the minority opposed the move of the veterinary professions. On behalf of the Ministry of Education and Research at the time, the Norwegian Research Council set up an international research panel to assess the future organisation of the Veterinary College. The majority went in to merge Norway's veterinary high school with the University of Oslo. However, the Panel said that there was no unique professional solution, but that a choice had to be made according to whether Norway would focus on the biomedical or biomedical field. The first pointed towards Ås, the second towards a co-organization with the University of Oslo. In the professional rationale for choosing to move to Ås, the Government has chosen to bring together the professional environments in order to give priority to national challenges related to food safety and animal and aquatic medicine. A merger with the University of Environment and Life Sciences at Ås could ensure an overall consideration of food safety from the producer to the consumer. Here the basic research communities will be merged with applied research, as parts of NOFIMA and parts of Bioforsk are located in Ås. The Norwegian Research Council has been clear throughout the process that the Veterinary College and the Veterinary Institute should be moved to Ås. The Norwegian Research Council believes that a collection of the life-scientific agricultural and veterinary environments will provide more and more robust scientific environments that also provide for interdisciplinary learning. It offers increased opportunities to strengthen organic production, biotechnology and innovation. The Government believes that a merger of the Veterinary College and the University of Environmental and Bioscience and a transfer of the Veterinary College and the Veterinary Institute to Ås will help to strengthen educational institutions and bring together the most relevant professional environments in the national priority areas of food, health and the environment. As far as food security and preparedness are concerned, the Swedish Food Safety Authority has stated that within the distances we are talking about, there is no problem that the Veterinary Institute is moving to Ås. As can be seen, professional recommendations in this case are not unambiguous. However, once the Government has chosen to go in to bring together the veterinary environments with the University of Environment and Life Sciences at Ås, it has, among other things, Followed advice from the Norwegian Research Council, which is our main adviser on research policy issues. In the choice between the biomedical and the biomedical as a main professional emphasis, the Government has thus chosen, on the basis of an overall assessment, the biomedical, with a focus on bioproduction and food science, including aquaculture. I am convinced that this - also in relation to veterinary environments - is forward-looking.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e696	I would like to thank you for your answer. What's really surprising here is that the Council of States doesn't mention the Dovre report in a single word. And the Dovre report is not any report; it is the Government's own KS1 report, i.e. the technical and economic recommendations on which political decisions should be based. The Dovre report is crystal clear in its conclusion. With the tasks that the veterinarians have and will have, it is important that they are in an integrated environment with the medical faculty, with the Food Authority, with Folkehelsa. I want to ask you, what makes you think about the Dovre report? And what makes you willing to spend money -- we don't really know how much -- to tear up a professional environment in the Adamstudio, which is a very small village, and move it 38 km? Couldn't Ås and the Veterinary College have cooperated where they are now?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e705	Of course, we have focused on all the reports that have come into this matter, including the Dovre report. It has in itself a cost calculation that clearly goes in the direction that Marit Nybakk says, that moving the veterinary environment to Ås is a more expensive matter. But at the same time, emphasis should be placed on the technical underlying reports here, as I said, there are professional arguments for both localisations. In an overall assessment, the government has chosen to think long-term and forward-looking, because sooner or later you would have a problem with the existing area and space, if you continued to be in Oslo, in the Adamstuen. The government has made a total, comprehensive balance, where the professional has gone exactly the way I said in my first answer, with emphasis on the bio-professional and the forward-looking, related to aquaculture and veterinary medicine in a bio-professional thinking.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e717	What still surprises me is that the only professional environment to be taken into account here is the former Agricultural College at Ås. The Council of State started with Ås in its first answer. So the veterinary community has not been heard at all, and the institute has been completely excluded. Other biomedical environments have not been heard in the Blind, for example. the faculties of the university. The fishing industry has not been listened to, which is highly critical of tearing up and moving these environments. The work of veterinarians in the future is primarily fish health and food safety. Food security is something you run in the Adamstäen in collaboration with Folkehelsa and the Food Authority. Food security is a part of Ås. That's two completely different things. So the government doesn't give priority to food security by splitting the central competence environment. I have to ask again: is it so that this is a purely localization/movement matter to Ås, without really taking into account the real professional arguments?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e726	I can, of course, cancel the last claim made by the representative Nybakk. It is not the case that you have not listened to the professional advice that has been given by many teams. I would also like to stress to the representative that we have had very thorough meetings with all the relevant professional environments that this is about, both the Veterinary Institute and the Veterinary College and the environments with which they have to cooperate, whether the location is one place or the other. I would like to maintain that on the basis of an overall assessment, including in the field of fish health/aquaculture, and with regard to the exciting new perspectives vis-à-vis the veterinary profession linked to the biodisciplinary, the professional justification for co-organisation - not just co-location - with the University of Environment and Life Sciences is, in my view, a good and forward-looking solution for the veterinary professional environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e736	I would like to ask the following questions to the Minister for Research and Higher Education: ‘In the discussion on the move of NVH to Ås, the movers believe that any sale of the properties in the Adams Room can be led to income for the construction project in Ås. However, the country may choose to retain the properties in order to meet the need for the expansion of other establishments, or to sell it to private owners, in which case the sum of the sales will be free of charge that can be used for any purpose. Does the Council of State consider it appropriate to keep a sales total of the properties for the benefit of the economy of the construction project in Ås?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e745	The market price of the Adamstuen property has been estimated at approximately 660 million. kr. It is underlined that this estimate is uncertain. No decision has yet been taken on the future use of the property, i.e.: whether or not to sell it. There may be good reasons why the State wants to retain ownership of the area centrally located in Oslo in order to meet possible future needs. In this case, the property has a higher value for the country than the estimated market value suggests. Provided that the property in Adamstuen is actually sold by moving the Veterinary College and the Veterinary Institute, the difference in costs between the two alternatives will be reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e752	In St. prp. No 30 for 2007-2008 argues that: ‘One will reduce the difference in costs between the two options, if any.’ That is, costs are reduced in favour of Ås. I think this is the wrong information, because a property is capital. It is a means that can be used for any purpose. If you, for example, the lack of capital to do this upgrading of the Veterinary College and the Veterinary Institute in the Adamstuen, it could be chosen to sell the property, rent the land back, and then use the sales revenue to clean up the Adamstuen. Property is capital which the State can use in its own right, and where it will, which the Council of State will now specify. I believe that the presentation given in the landfill proposition, that a sale will reduce the difference between the two alternatives, is false, because this is capital, property is capital, that can be used for any purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e764	I just want to stress what I said in my answer, that here there is uncertainty about both the cost estimates and what the state is really going to do. Of course, this is not a final decision, and it will be an important challenge for the state to do so in the best possible way when it comes to both the sale of a property as part of the total bill, and the fact that we have good cost management on the project that exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e769	I think the Council of State is bypassing the issue. I want to turn the problem around and say: if there is a vacant area on Ås that you can use to build a veterinary high school and the veterinary institute, you could trade/sell the area on Ås and use that income for refurbishment in the Adams room. Why haven't you just explained how to do it when you make this in the proposition? I think you unilaterally use what is the state's capital and property to argue for one option in a completely wrong way. I would like to ask, is it that the Council of State is saying that when you compare the costs of the two alternatives - where you have said that it costs NOK 2.4 billion to move and build in Ås, and about NOK 1 billion to clean up and rebuild what you need in the Adams room - the difference is about NOK 1.4 billion, or will she still subtract from this possible sale of the property in the Adams room?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e776	What's absolutely certain, and as I've also said before, is that here no decision has yet been made on how this is going to happen, and in what way the property in the Adams Room is going to be handled. The alternative that Bohemia points to makes me make another assessment on this question - he asks whether we have not assessed it the other way. I note that we disagree with the information presented in the landfill proposal. I think we have ours on the dry one there, but nevertheless, if we see it in a long-term perspective, the area limitation in the Adams Room will be a lot bigger than the possibilities there is for a fantastic fine both colocation and building mass at a location on Ås. I want to put great emphasis on the forward-looking perspective. There are opportunities for the future, both for the veterinary environments and for co-organization with the University of Environment and Life Sciences, and for getting an exciting new professional investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e786	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Research and Higher Education: ‘The Council of State has put forward a proposal proposing to move NVH to Ås and to co-organise it with UMB. This will also mean a transfer of the Veterinary Institute [[VI]] Can the Council of States guarantee that these will not be downgraded in order to carry out the movement of NVH and VI?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e795	The need for new clinic buildings at Norway’s veterinary high school has long been precarious. It has been high on the Government's list of priority construction projects. As stated by St.prp. No 30 for 2007-2008, realising new building mass at Ås will not change the government’s priority of new buildings in the university and higher education sectors. As of today, there is an approved cost framework for the three priority projects: new odontology building at the University of Bergen, construction for nursing training at the University of Oslo and co-location of the University of Bergen. In St. prp. No 1 for 2007-2008, further notice is that the aim is to rehabilitate the centre buildings of the University of Oslo. These projects will be prioritised before new construction on Ås. In addition, a number of other projects in the sector are being worked on. St. pp. No 1 for 2007-2008. I am concerned that there is good progress in the work also on these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e802	I thank the Council of State for now clearly saying that the University of Bergen, the University of Oslo and the University of Bergen are priorities, along with the centre buildings. Then I can only see that it will be very difficult to find money to carry out a rapid move to Ås, which I understand is also a prerequisite for success and development of the environment that the Council of State says she wants. Now, if we're going to have to wait for these projects that it's set up to, what does the Council of State see going to happen at the Veterinary College in the meantime? What is going to happen to the coals that are now being trained there, under unsatisfactory conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e807	Of course, I will follow closely in all these situations where there is a precarious need for construction, and new buildings in particular. My task is to get ahead in the building queue that I mentioned, also so that the veterinary college can solve its problems as quickly as possible. But here we are now at the beginning of a process, where there must be both an integration between the Veterinary College and the University of Environmental and Life Sciences organisational, as well as a co-location with the Veterinary Institute, and at the same time construction is planned for this. It's not the very first coals this will affect, but I still want to keep an eye on evolution, so that we keep up a pressure in that construction process. But it comes after the others in the queue, just so it's clarified once again.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e812	We've been told through previous questions here that moving to Ås will be far more expensive, and also less socio-economically profitable. In a situation where we have a pressed construction market, and where we have a lot of big unsolved tasks in the capital region: how can you defend using extra $1 billion for the move to Ås, when we know there are so many other things we need to do? The main problem here is not sales or not sales, or how much money we spend, but -- as the Council of State is also familiar with -- the ever-increasing construction costs and problems in actually implementing the projects. Wouldn't it have been wiser to bet on implementing the cheapest solutions, so that we had achieved the fastest possible progress for all the projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e817	I'm busy getting the best solutions. I am also concerned about keeping a pressure on the construction issues we have as major challenges now, and on which I have mentioned the order. The cost estimates for this new location of the veterinary environment are uncertain. It is also uncertain and unclear how this sale might enter into the total cost calculation, so I would not have said anything about the amounts mentioned by the representative here. My strong intention in this matter is, of course, that we should, in the best possible way, go through all the framework conditions that we need in order to receive a forward-looking and good veterinary education at Ås.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e827	My question goes to the Minister of Defence: ‘In the context of several press releases, the Coast Guard Chief Arild Inge Skram announced a reduced activity for the Coast Guard, as a result of the 2008 adopted Defence Budget. Furthermore, the Coast Guard Chief believes that this results in poorer monitoring and presence in our sea areas. In this context, it is important to clarify whether it is correct that the number of operational sailing days will be reduced as a result of the adopted budget. Will the Coast Guard’s operational sailing day be reduced with today’s budget?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e836	The northern regions are the main strategic focus of the Government. This involves involvement and activities across a wide range, including in the defence sector. The Coast Guard is a central element of this strategy, especially in the presence in the north, but also as the important resource Coast Guard is along the entire Norwegian coast. One of the first governments to do so when it joined was to give priority to maritime patrol aircraft and the Coast Guard, because it is important to see them in context, by proposing an increase of the 2006 appropriations by 35 million, respectively. NOK 15 million. kr. This joined Stortinget. In 2007, further increases were made in the allocation of the Coast Guard. This high level has also continued in the current year. In examining the budget for this year, the Stortinget endorsed the framework for the Coast Guard, including the adaptation of activity and sailing patterns to the fact that new vessels are more expensive to operate than the old vessels being replaced. But it is important to stress that patrol days alone say little about the effect of the Coast Guard's work. However, it is true that in 2008 the number of vessels has decreased and therefore the number of patrol days has decreased slightly. However, in the overall picture, it is also necessary to include an increase in the number of days of patrol of helicopter-carrying vessels compared to that carried out in 2007. I would also like to point out that technological solutions and cooperation between the Defence/Coastal Guard and other departments provide a better picture of the situation and the basis for decision-making, and enable the Defence Operational Management and Coast Guard to enable the more efficient disposal of the ships. The Coast Guard is in a period of new acquisitions and restructuring. The defence provides for a development that will provide a coastguard adapted to the future. It shall be effective and capable of discharging the assigned tasks along the coast and in adjacent sea areas. Older vessels are now replaced by modern vessels, each of which has a better capacity. Furthermore, when delivered, the helicopters will contribute to increased action radius and surveillance capacity for the Coast Guard.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e851	I thank the Minister for the answer. And then I'd say that under the hood. 1790 in the 2008 budget, it says among other things:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The production is measured, inter alia: on the number of days of patrol.’» The Council of State answers to my question suggest that the Council of State and the Department have more or less gone from this way of measuring output in the Coast Guard, even if it is in the budget. Is this a proper indication from me regarding the production measurement of the Coast Guard?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e863	It is true that the number of patrol days is a measurement factor for the Coast Guard. But it is true that, in the past, there were many coastguard vessels that were former fishing vessels, which went later, which had lower equipment, and which had much less capacity to obtain a picture of the situation than the new ones that are now phased in, which are larger, which are faster, but which are also more expensive to operate. Patrol day is one thing, but it is also important what they can actually deliver capacity to get a picture of the situation. Here I would also like to underline the interaction with Orion planes and the old Lynx helicopters, which are still in use -- but especially the new ones, the NH90, when they come.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e868	Once again, I would like to refer to the budget. It says, among other things.\t\t You can change the ‘In line with the government’s Northern Territory Initiative, the activity of the Coast Guard in the Northern Areas will also be given priority in 2008. The Coast Guard budget has been strengthened in real and very substantial terms over several years.» My question to the Council of State is: How can the production of the Coast Guard be maintained when KV «Andenes» is withdrawn from service, and according to Coast Guard Chief Scram there will be no new vessel replacing KV «Andenes» in the Outer Coast Guard North in 2008? So this applies to 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e878	It is true that the north is a priority for the voyage. A sailing pattern has been established to ensure this. In the case of vessels, something is phased out this year, and something comes in. It was to be delivered earlier than it now seems, that it will not be delivered until the end of the year. When we are in a transitional phase, between the phasing-out of old ships and the phasing-in of new vessels, it is clear that capacity will be somewhat reduced. But I want to stress that the new coastguard vessels that are coming have a completely different capacity and a completely different ability to run good surveillance with Orion planes and other defence capabilities, than the old ones, that are phased out.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e887	Question 7 will be answered later in the Questionnaire.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e893	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘In smoke eleven households have been tied to their properties for seven years pending the development of the tribal road rv. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox A single Committee on Transport and Communications has entered the budget at the end of the year. S. No 13 e.g. written as follows: ‘The Committee expresses strong concern at the situation of the development case for Rv. [[2007-2008]] 23 have put residents along the planned trajectory through the municipality of Smoke in.” The residents have been suggested a solution. Will the Council of State cut through, and ensure that the State takes its responsibility and redeems the properties as soon as possible?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e902	First, I want to say that I have a lot of understanding of the problems that owners of housing in future roadlines are facing. It is not satisfactory to have such a build situation. Question about the redemption of the eleven dwellings that are caused by the planned extension of Rv. 23 in the smoke, have been thoroughly treated in the state’s roadway. When such a step has not been found for redemption, it is because the previous government did not find room for the development project in the national transport plan. Thus, the conditions laid down in the current discharge authority are not met, i.e. that the road should be prioritised in the national transport plan. In this context, it can be said that there are at the base of 400 trajectories for future roads, and that one of the powers that are in force can only be redeemed about 200 of them, i.e. the road in trassar that is in the national transport plan. In the case of triggering cases in the smoking sector, there was a meeting on this in the Ministry of Civil Affairs on 19 March 2007 - on the initiative of Eirin Faldet, who has been involved in the case and who participated in the meeting with representatives of the eleven landowners. In the meeting, the Directorate of Roads was asked to conduct a fundamental assessment of the legislation applicable to the redemption of dwellings in the future, with a view to possible changes. In addition, the Directorate of Roads was asked to look at the cases in the smoking industry in particular, with a view to resolving them earlier than what has been done. When it comes to the housing in the smoke, the Directorate of Road showed that these fall outside the category of dwellings that can be redeemed under the current mandate, and that one found it difficult to give priority to the redemption of these dwellings over the 200 dwellings that fall within. At the same time, it was stated that new guidelines for the redemption of dwellings were being worked on, and that the matter would be assessed in relation to them, when they were agreed. The Directorate of Roads has made a proposal for new guidelines that were sent to the Ministry a few days ago. These will make it easier to dissolve dwellings in future roads. Saka is now being handled in the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e917	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It's true, as the Council of State says, many -- including the President -- have engaged in this matter. I am aware of the guidelines available. At the same time, it was a great disappointment, when the agencies presented their draft national transport plan, that rv. 23 was not mentioned at all. Is the Council aware that this can be corrected when NTP is presented next year? It's very interesting with these guidelines that have now been sent to the department. When will the Ministry present these guidelines? Will the Storting get insight into them? And could it provide a clarification of the situation in the smoking industry, pending the treatment of NTP next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e926	First to prioritize rv. 23: It is clear that rv. 23, new main road system in Lier, not through KS1. It makes it possible to prioritize the road into the first period of the national transport plan, or at least into the national transport plan. One will, of course, consider the priorities to be met before submitting this crash message. When it comes to the directionlines themselves, they're just coming to the ministry. I have to go through them, and I get a case in a while. I want to notify the Storting about changes in a defensive way. The first possibility will be in the pooling proposition that will be made when the revised national budget is in place for spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e933	I really hope that we will then have access to the guidelines. The most important thing here is, from the state's point of view, the guidelines. But many of the people in the smoke who have been sitting for seven years in uncertainty and waiting are in a difficult situation of life. Some people have a disease, others have an old age that makes them want to move to, for example, apartments. The worst thing about the matter is that they cannot rent out their houses either, because then they will only be replaced by the value for use of the house, not full value. There are many strong human considerations in this matter that one has to pay attention to. It is gratifying that an overall transport committee has stated that this is ‘to impose an unreasonable burden on individuals for tasks which are the responsibility of the State and in the interests of society’. My hope is that the Council of State also sees these problems, and that we can get a solution as soon as possible, preferably during the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e942	I'm completely in agreement with what Greece is expressing when it comes to the human burden that the inhabitants have, and also the owners of houses along other sections that are in the same situation. For the Council of States, it is important that we have a regulatory framework that ensures equal treatment for all. Taking out a group, the same thing as I would like to do, because you have personal knowledge of individuals or other things, is pretty hard to do. That's why it's important that we now change these orientations, so that for the future we don't get into situations where people are sitting in the dark for very many years. I'll do my best to get something done about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e952	The question is: ‘Proposal for NTP 2010-2019 reveals a very large gap between professionally recommended investments in road and rail and the economic planning framework provided by the Government. More than traditional additions, obviously new financial instruments are needed to implement the necessary investments in the transport network. Without such instruments, the rolling of NTP becomes only a roll-over and no travel lift. What is the plan of the Council of State to clarify and approve new financial instruments for the roll-out of new NTP?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e961	As is now well known, transport modes are their basic material for NTP 2010-2019 in the usual way developed within computational frameworks. These frameworks were set out in guidelines by the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Ministry of Fisheries at ten times the 2007 budget +/- 20 pst. As part of their plan work, they have also created their own core network services from a 30-year perspective. In these terms, there are, among other things. assessed the professional need to upgrade the core network until it has been called ‘good standard’. Such an ambition will require a higher framework, which has been addressed in the plan proposal and in my answer to question 547 for 2007-2008, by the representative Sandberg. Which framework the Government will recommend for the Storting, I will come back to the big NTP message, which I intend to present towards the end of the year. In the case of financial instruments other than budgetary financing, this will be particularly true for toll financing, which is taken into account in the budget proposals. Project financing has been discussed more closely in St.prp. No 1, Yellow book for 2007. Etats have re-opened the question in their plan proposal. These points of view will be taken further into account in the work on NTP. In the road sector, attempts have been made with Public Private Cooperation, OPS, where the individual expansion projects have not been dependent on annual government budget commitments during the deployment phase, but of course with large outflows of the government budget for a year afterwards. An evaluation by the Transport Economic Institute and Dovre International showed no economic savings compared to traditional implementation, but significantly faster project implementation was demonstrated. These findings are, of course, something I would like to include in the further work on the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e976	I thank you for your answer. It is clearer in this plan than it has been in the past that there is a huge gap between what is a professionally recommended framework and what is given as a political planning framework from the ministry. The gap is a total of DKK 100 billion in the new period 2010-2019 just for road alone. In order for this consultation round to have any meaning at all, do we not have to have new financial instruments so that we can make an investment commitment in the road sector, in order to be able to cover at all some of the formidable gap in the road sector that the trade unions themselves point to? In the draft new national transport plan, the trade unions themselves say: «It is therefore not possible to extend the infrastructure within the planning framework to a desired level in the foreseeable future.»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e988	If you look at the Swedish Road Administration's proposal on the stem diagram, I think I will remember that + 20 pst. will provide a fully-fledged core network of 35 years, while the core network is a fully-fledged core network of 30 years. There is little difference between the +20 pst. option and the so-called recommended proposal. On the railway, it's probably something similar -- I haven't years quite clearly led me. The big gap I don't think is much bigger this time than it has been. What is new in this national transport plan presented by the etats is that one has taken the height of the large growth in both road and rail traffic, and that one has taken the height of the need to do something about the maintenance run, which former governments have unfortunately neglected.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e995	I would like to thank you again for your answer. There are two things that are different in this planning, one is the clarity of a big gap, i.e. a great need for road construction that does not seem to meet the planned framework. And Norway is richer than ever before. Therefore, the Progress Party considers that, in parallel with the consultation round, it is necessary that the Government clears and approves new financial instruments so that oil money can be invested in modern infrastructure and in modern road networks in Norway. The Progress Party has pointed to an infrastructure fund, and we have pointed to government loans for specific projects, as both the Railway Agency and the State Road Service propose - at least points out - in the draft new National Transport Plan. It is important to put new tools in place here. But the question is whether this has actually been completely canceled by the Government, in the light of the Prime Minister's response to the questionnaire a week ago, where again no project funding was said.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1004	As usual, I am not commenting on the internal processes of the Government, at least not in a case where the Government is going to file a big case for the Storting before Christmas, where many questions are going to be clarified. There's almost one more year. I'm going to have to come back to that. I asked the representative to notice what I said about OPS in my main response. Because it's right that it doesn't charge that much, and it looks very nice. But it is, for many years to come, a very heavy burden on the annual budgets, and it is binding on the Storting its ability to give priority to future budgets. It's both plus and minus with that as well, but the positive thing about OPS is that one gets implemented faster. There is an item that cannot be ignored. We're going to make the most of society's resources, and the rapid implementation of projects is an important way to achieve that goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1014	‘The country’s reintroduction and growth businesses are compensated for a 1 pst wage and price increase from 2007 to 2008. In the State budget, the corresponding compensation to the State and its local authorities is 4,2 pst. Can such under-regulation be carried out without negative consequences for the action to be taken against those persons in need of the measures provided by the reintroduction andgrowth businesses?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1021	The Government has a strong focus on the early implementation of targeted and adapted measures and services in order to enable individuals to participate in the labour market. The objective is the right timely action. With the high demand for labour, we have a historic opportunity to increase the participation of vulnerable groups in the labour market. The allocation under labour market measures provides for an average level of measures of around 40000 places in 2008. Of these, about 28 200 places shall ensure that job-seekers with reduced mobility receive rapid and adapted assistance, as well as approximately 11 800 places for regular job-seekers who need appropriate and necessary assistance. In view of the substantial reduction in unemployment, the number of people with disabilities and the labour market demand for labour, the level of employment represents a marked increase in efforts towards people who have problems getting into work. The appropriations for labour market measures have increased by 1.1 pst. from 2007 to 2008. In addition to growth in prices, I have suggested that the increase in appropriations should allow for more action places than in 2007. This means that the average price has to increase by less than 1,1 pst. Nevertheless, I have chosen to increase the subsidy rates for labour market measures in both recruitment and growth enterprises by 1.1 pst. This is achieved by the fact that measures outside those enterprises must be implemented with a price increase of less than 1,1 pst. If the rates of labour market measures in the sheltered sector had increased more than that, other measures in the ordinary field of work would have gone further. The Government is committed to adapting measures to job seekers with particularly large and complex assistance needs, including: has increased the number of places in permanent work. The Directorate of Labour and Welfare has been asked to continue work on setting up more sites for action, for example: permanent job creation, in order to include persons who otherwise fall outside the ordinary working life. Over 80 pst. of the means of action allocated to persons with reduced working capacity goes to labour market measures in the recruitment and growth businesses. As shown in my statement above, I have placed the decisive emphasis on making the best possible use of the action framework in the preparation of the current year’s action budget, with a view to implementing several sites. This has led to a lower adjustment of prices, although the fixed rates of return and growth have increased as much as the allocation. On the other hand, my arrangement provides several places that, together with the good labour market, together, can increase the transition to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1034	I thank you for your answer. We agree that one should have the right measures at the right time, and that our recruitment and growth businesses are our best allies to get more from social security to work. My impression is that it will be more efficient, and that the profits they receive from the companies will be ploughed back. Then it's invested in good people, with a high level of competence, who cost something. They create new tools and methods to succeed. Last week the Council of State was in Arendal and said he would be an emissary for these repatriation companies. Then my questions become to Emissary Hanssen: Is it really so that his message now is that these companies actually get too much money compared to the job they have? Do they really need more efficiency? What signals are given to employees in this situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1043	What I focus enormously on is that we have a fantastic situation in the labour market. There's a huge labour shortage. It gives us a historic opportunity to get more people to work, more from being a disabled person and unemployed to get into permanent employment. We must now be careful to make the most of that situation in the most effective way possible. The objective of the management companies and the objectives of thegrowth businesses is not to get people to work, but to get them to work. I am absolutely sure that this is a demanding arrangement. I am absolutely sure that many of the feedback and growth companies will say that there are very tough framework conditions, but I am also quite sure that the sum of the action appropriations next year is such that we will get more work done than we would have done by setting it up in a different way. Then we have the goal achievement, although it will mean that there will be some tough thanks for someone.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1050	I thank you again for the answer. It is absolutely right that the new frameworks are perceived as very tough for these companies. It is also true that we have a historic opportunity, because a tight labour market makes it easy for more people to get into work. But those who are left in the rehab companies are the ones who need longer time, and have to stand in the longer run. They're doing a great job improving the offers they have, just for the group that needs it the most. There is a lot of talk about that they have profits and need to be streamlined. This has been said both by the Secretary of State and by the Council of State in the media. I want to turn it around a little bit on my head, and ask: has the Council considered reducing the price and salary compensation to its own budget - perhaps just a little below the 4.2 pst? which they have - and give it to the reforestation and growth companies, which must be reasonably said to have the greatest challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1059	It could have been very interesting to discuss this issue a little bit more closely with the Christian People's Party, because it's a party that has experience with these kinds of budgetary operations, it's just a Christian People's Party. During the previous government, led by Prime Minister Bondevik, it was that in 2004 the cost regulation was zero percent. Then there's someone who has experience in how this works, it has to be a Christian People's Party from their own reign. But unlike when the Christian People's Party ruled the country, I don't dare regulate by just zero percent, so at least we regulate by 1.1 pst. As tough framework conditions as the Christian People's Party were willing to provide the businesses, we have not been willing to. So to present this as something that is so unique and demanding from our government is going to be wrong. When the Christian People's Party ruled Norway, it was only tougher to be reintroduction businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1069	‘Norway benefits from a strong growth in labour migration from Poland and Lithuania, together with more than 100 000 people. Their efforts are of great importance in the Norwegian welfare community. The Catholic Church in Norway, on its side, makes a great effort to meet the different social, cultural and spiritual needs of this group. However, the need is so great that the economy sets limits. Does the Council of State also consider it reasonable that financial support may be provided for the important work carried out by the Catholic Church?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1076	I think it is very nice to focus on this issue in the UK Question Time, because the Catholic Church in Norway is currently facing a major challenge with the high number of new users and visitors given over the last few years due to increasing labour migration, especially from Poland and Lithuania. I appreciate the efforts of the Catholic Church towards new workers in Norway. For many, especially the Polish workers, the church has a central place and performs many functions, not only on the religious level but also socially and in terms of information. Clearly, it is a challenge for the Church to be resourceful when the number of users and visitors rises as fast as it has in recent years. The Catholic Church receives financial grants under the law of trudom and ymist others. The number of members determines the amount of the aid. Under this Act, grants are not granted to persons who have a D-number in Norway, but only to those who have an ordinary person number. One of the reasons for the church's challenges is that many of the immigrants who use the church only have D-numbers. They cannot then be registered as members and thus trigger government grants. It's, as you know, the Ministry of Culture and the Church that administers the law of trudom societies and ymist others, and I can't or will not go into this regulation here. As far as my responsibilities are concerned, I can inform you that the Government has set up a pilot scheme of 2.3 million in 2008. kr, where non-governmental organisations can apply for support for projects aimed at providing targeted information and guidance to new arrivals adapted to their needs. Caritas Norway, an aid organisation of the Catholic Church, has applied for support from this scheme as one of 26 organisations. Caritas Norway will receive project support as one of three for an integration project aimed at migrant workers. We are already capturing this through this experimental system and providing some increased support for the Catholic Church in Norway. I want to say from this pulpit that when you're one of three that divides by 2.3 million. kr, is probably the amount too small in relation to what we should have done about the job that the Catholic Church is doing. That is why this is among the themes I include in the 2009 budget work, with a view to strengthening the state budget so that we can extend our support to the Catholic Church.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1093	I am very pleased with the answer and to the extent of the premise for the answer, namely that for the groups we are talking about here, the Catholic Church is more than a place where one goes to worship - it also facilitates both social needs and cultural needs. I can only mention that Saturday school is organized with Norwegian education for both adults and children. There are even several associations working with local LO associations on welfare measures. The councils were in the Ministry of Culture and the Church, and I am sure the Council of State knows that the Catholic Church has received a clear rejection of support for the kind of membership that the Council of State was in. So I'm very happy that you recognize that as a nation we can face new challenges, and that we can solve them in collaboration with a church that works. So my question is, what amount does the Council of State think that the sum he referred to should be increased by?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1100	It'll be too early to answer. I don't think the representative Syversen understands that. But to break my own words about not commenting on the law administered by another government council present, I would say that I understand that that law is based on D number and S number, that is, that D number is for people who have a very loose connection with Norway. There may be many good arguments for not triggering a firm support scheme from the Ministry of Culture and the Church. It's a fact that very many, e.g. Poland, in fact, is so long in Norway that they are entitled to S numbers, but do not know the meaning of going from D numbers to S numbers, and do not know that it will trigger support for the church they belong to. So at the new information office set up on Tøen in Oslo, which is a coordinated information office for several state authorities, we motivate and inform about the importance of obtaining an S number if you are committed to supporting your church.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1105	I thank you for your answer. The important thing, I don't think, is to what kind of pot the money comes from. The important thing is that, as a nation, we benefit enormously from the immigration of labour that we have from these countries. It is heavily taxed to Norway. There is, in my view, no unfairness in that there is also support for, for example. The Catholic Church, which makes a great contribution to integration and to the best possible feeling here in the country. I am basically very pleased with the approach of the Council of State to this and hope we can work together to see in the 2009 budget the importance of this work, and that we are making money available to reflect exactly that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1114	Yes, with joy. What was fine with today's Question Time was that there were two questions for me, because then I could be very attentive to the Christian People's Party on one question, even though I might not have felt like it in the previous one.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1121	With the nice tone we go to the next question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1128	This question, from the representative of Dagrun Eriksen to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, will be answered by the Minister for Culture and the Church who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1131	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Culture and the Church: ‘In the Fosna people and in the VG we have been able to read about one of Norway’s best women’s bowling teams from Bjugn, how many of the team’s members have become pregnant that they have had to subtract from the series. The Norwegian Bowling Association has responded by imposing a fine of NOK 15 000. This presents a challenge for female athletes. In a gender perspective, this seems unreasonable. Will the Council of State take an initiative towards the Norwegian Sports Association to review the kind of legislation available in this area?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1140	State sports policy is based on the vision that sport and physical activity should be for everyone. The same is true of the Norwegian Sports Association and the Olympic and Paralympic Committee. It is therefore an objective both for the state and for sport itself to maintain and further develop an open and inclusive sport, where everyone should be able to find their way and be involved, even if you become pregnant. The sport is Norway's second largest national movement, with over 2 million members. This means that the sport has an attractive offer, where a lot of people find something that suits them. I know that the Sports Association has, in many contexts, emphasised the work on equality in a broad sense. It has been expressed both in the form of the prioritisation of activities for girls and women and through work for a smoother gender distribution among trainers and trustees. On the part of the Ministry, we are also clear that within State grant schemes, there should be a focus on actions that contribute to improving the gender balance of members and active people and to facilitating it both on the activity and plant side. All specialised associations affiliated to the Norwegian Sports Association and the Olympic and Paralympic Committees are independent voluntary organisations. As other non-governmental organisations, they have an autonomous position vis-à-vis the State and have both the right and the duty to have their own legislation regulating the activities of the organisation. I believe there is a broad consensus in the Storting to respect the self-determination of voluntary organisations, and that of course requires that the legislation is within the framework of Norwegian law. The single matter raised by the representative Eriksen, a bowling club that has been fined because the club's team in the women's elite division has been pulled after the series game was started, is regulated in this way by the bowling club's legislation. After being informed, the legislation has been designed so that all clubs that subtract a layer from the series are fined for whatever reason. It is not uncommon to have a code in the federations that involves penalties if a team is withdrawn after the series game has started. The reason is that pulling a team has consequences for the other teams involved in the series game, both sporty and economic. After we have been informed about this matter, this matter has still not been dealt with in the Bowling Association. The Board of Appeal of the Norwegian Bowling Association has the matter on its table. I would like to believe that this legislation was not made for that type, we can say, unforeseen circumstances - I have to correct, I can't say if it was unforeseen or not, nor do I have any reason to comment on it - that it is a situation that the legislation may not have fully taken into account. But it must therefore be the Bowling Association itself that needs to find out, according to the rules and decision-making bodies that they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1161	I thank you for your answer. I had not expected the council to intervene and settle the matter for the players in Bjugn, even though I think they would have appreciated getting the matter sorted out. But what I'm trying to focus on is also a little bit about women, sports and pregnancy and the slightly big and general questions. Landslagspäller and Kolbotn-Captein Solveig Gulbrandsen said, for example.It's not important to add up when I'm a mom. She chose one of the maybe bravest solutions to the puzzle, to be able to get into a high-level sports career while at the same time being in a mother's role. Although she felt that it was not what one should do, she has done this. That means that when a sportsman at that level, and these women in Bjugn, feels that combining sports careers with pregnancy is not easy, I wish we had got a general discussion in the sport of attitudes to this. Will the Council of State take the initiative?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1172	Absolutely. We will continue to cooperate with the sport in order to provide a good activity offer to everyone. Of course, it also means facilitating gender equality, gender equality and combating all forms of discrimination in relation to sex, life views, ethnic backgrounds, etc. That work is important in relation to the overall objective of maintaining and further developing sport as a member-based organisation, a voluntary organisation open to all. So to the extent that we can contribute to it, both through activity measures and through construction design, etc., we will of course do it. Fortunately, we have a lot of evidence that getting pregnant and continuing to practice, and also after a birth to continue in top-notch, does not weaken top-notch performance. On the contrary, there are many people who have proved that it is fully possible to be at the top, even afterwards. Also in terms of width, it is both healthy and useful that you can be physically active through pregnancy and after birth. This is part of that equality perspective. The Ministry and the representative, Eriksen, have perfectly consistent objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1179	There are, as the Council of State says, not only many who have proved this, but through Kari Backe-Hansen and Professor Kari Bø there have also been studies that have shown something about combining sports careers with being a mother and having children along the way, and also having good physical opportunities to come back clearly. The problem is that very many of these have to go this way themselves, and not only do they have to break through attitudes, because sport is made up of many men, but they also have to break through part of the codes, like in the Bowling League, where you haven't taken into account that pregnancy should be kept out of the way. I'm glad that the Council of State will have an engagement around this. I hope that in his discussions he will not rule the Sports Association, but take it up with them as a problem, and thereby that the Sports Association takes it up with the special federations, so that we do not get similar cases. Then we get to wish the bowling ladies of Bjugn happiness with the births that are going on, and maybe they can increase the number of bowling members in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1188	It may be that this issue is also raised from the Parliament's pulpit, helping to draw attention to the matter, and also that the Bowling Association and others are thinking about how they can help to facilitate that representative Eriksen is addressing. It is absolutely right that sport should be a living movement in the future too, we must provide for ever new members of this great movement of people. I think we both have common goals and many common strategies, which were in the department when we got in there, which the representative Eriksen's own party trap once ruled. So here, I think we're on the same line. Let me finally take the opportunity to congratulate you together with the day! I see that my colleague, Helga Pedersen, has had a party break, and there is reason to congratulate her and everyone else on this day - also from the Stockholm pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1197	That's what the president can do!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1203	My question is addressed to the Minister of Justice: ‘The Ministry has sent amendments to Regulation (EC) No 16 December 2005, settlement regulation to be consulted. Past amendments from 2007 resulted in a loss of remuneration for lost work and travel expenses, and the new proposal will further reduce the rates of settlement members. For self-employed workers, each meeting will generate significant losses of income, and the necessary course, preparation and post-employment will not be demonstrated. Several will now withdraw from the judiciary. Will the Ministry of Justice weaken the Conciliation Board as a judicial body?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1212	The answer is no! We will not weaken the conciliation councils as an instance to resolve conflicts - rather on the contrary. Settlement councils play an incredibly important role, creating arenas for people where conflict resolution can be achieved without excessive costs. This is also linked to the reform that is now taking place in civil dispute law. When matters come to court, you are also invited to simplify matters and contribute to conciliation, so that we get faster solutions. In fact, we also get better solutions to issues when people are able to reconcile matters. It ends with things that live longer and that live better for the actors that are affected. That's right, what the representative Larsen is asking about. The size--so to say a co-consistent biging, including the Left--has the background of the Government's proposal in St.prp. No 1 adopted for 2007-2008 to adjust the remuneration to the members of the Conciliation Council with effect from 1 May 2008. I believe that this change will not weaken the conciliation councils as an instance. The rate in cases where the parties are invited to attend meetings is changed from once to at all times by the public salary rate applicable to lawyers to two thirds of the salary rate per year. I'm sorry. The rate in other cases to the Conciliation Board is changed from one-sixth of the salary to one-eightth of the salary per year. I'm sorry. The amendments are part of the overall approach of the 2008 draft budget in the field of justice. I mean they're to live with. These changes must be seen in the light of the amendment to the Conciliation Council Regulation of 17 February 2006, which differentiated the remuneration of the members of the Conciliation Council by introducing a reduced rate in cases where the parties are not invited to a meeting. The changes involve a further adjustment of the remuneration rates to the members of the settlement board. In my view, as I said at the outset, the settlement arrangement represents a valuable element of civil justice. The settlement mechanism is a fair, public and decentralised dispute resolution mechanism. Assistance to conflict resolution in the form of mediation at an early stage of a conflict, before an ordinary legal case is initiated, is important and useful. It contributes to a valuable relief of the other legal apparatus. I believe that the remuneration of the Conciliation Board members will be at the right level after the adjustment of the rates that have now been adopted by the Stortinget. I can't see that the adjustment will weaken the conciliation board as a court of law.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1231	Thank you so much for that answer. It is good to hear that the settlement councils should not be weakened. We've come up with a kinky situation, because, as the council says, the settlement councils are as the lowest court in society, very important in the municipality. After even having 10 years of experience with this work, I know what work is done to find reconciliation and find good solutions at the lowest possible level. What's the problem now is that many people spend quite a lot of their spare time on this job. They spend days on the course, and they feel that this compensation is not in line with the effort. Will the Ministry continue to invest in the settlement councils, and will there be new reductions? This is going to be very difficult for those who are already selected.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1240	We'll still bet on the conciliators. That's where I think the Left and Government parties are all in line. I believe it is absolutely essential that we get more use of the conciliation councils. It's a little bit about it, for example. Nils Christie and others, both criminologists and others who have access to civil dispute resolution, talk about bringing the conflicts back to the people and getting better solutions to the issues. This adjustment made in the remuneration of the Conciliation Board members, I do not believe it is a threat to it. But we're going to take the signal from the questioner seriously, and keep this in mind when we're going to design future budgets. I said in my answer instead that I believe that we have come down to the right level. It also states that we don't have ambitions to change this any more now. This is also a system in which many structural changes have been made in recent years, following the establishment of the civil justice system on the basic plan through the work of the previous government, and where major changes were made to how this was organised. I believe that the legislation is now starting to settle, and so should the question of remuneration.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1247	I am pleased that the State Council of Storberget will take these signals, because it is alarming signals I get from several municipalities in West Agder. Many people experience this as a gradual weakening or downgrading of the Conciliation Boards, which the Council of State does not think should be the case. The fact that these Conciliation Council members are now elected from 1 May 2008 to 1 January 2012 makes them feel that they have been selected on the wrong basis when changes are being made along the way during their period. I will follow up this matter further, but does the department see the father by losing good judges here? And what will the ministry do to keep good conciliators?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1256	If you were to change this settlement board allowance, it's just time to do it now - before you choose new members. If you do it in the middle of a period, I would understand the argument that you're chosen on the wrong basis. Those who are now elected have more predictability in relation to the rules applicable to the members of the Conciliation Board. My experience from both local and local law administration as a lawyer over a number of years has shown me that it is very attractive to participate in the settlement councils. They often recruit very experienced, good conciliators. This is related to the fact that we also need it, because we know that the conciliation councils have been given greater opportunity, among other things. to dismiss the judge, and it is important that we make good decisions. I believe that we should focus on what the representative asks for, that we should invest more in good recruitment to the Conciliation Councils. But when I hear about the recruitment that's going on locally, I'm not worried now. I believe that we have very good conciliators, and I think we will have it after 1 May as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1266	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: «In connection with St.meld. No 23 and Innst. [[1991-1992]] [[1991-1992]] S. No In 192, the total cost of crime was estimated to be 38 billion. krones. What will the overall social cost of crime be if this is predicted today and today’s situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1275	This question has been asked by the questioner and I discussed several times, including. when we were both in opposition in the previous period -- the relevance of measuring the costs of crime and its problems. There are 16-year-old figures here -- and it's a long time before any of us got any responsibility. But I find reason to point out that there is no doubt that crime is causing society great negative costs and adverse effects, and we must at least not get into a situation where we only measure adverse effects from the economy. I know that the representative Ellingen has also been concerned about this. The degradation experienced by many victims of crime can never be measured in crowns and ears. Crime leads to suffering and insecurity for individuals, and it is also rooted in many of the ideals of welfare and social democracy. The fact that people are subjected to violence, that they are deprived of assets, is some of the costs of crime that we all have to contribute to reducing. We'd like to try to figure out the damage to illustrate the extent of crime. Some believe that the figure is about 50-100 billion kroner - others believe that it is 250-300 billion kroner. Regardless of the amount, crime causes a great deal of burdens or costs to society and individuals. They must be effectively identified and crime combated. I tend to say it so that we in any case know enough about the economic and human costs of crime, and that is also the background that the Government is pursuing such an active policy in this field as we do. As the representative Ellingen will be familiar with, many of us in the criminal policy debate in recent years have used the cost figures of the gross and uncertain estimate of the referenced forecast in order to be able to say something about today's costs of crime. Indexed projections of the figure €38 billion from the 1992 notification are the simplest, if not the safest, way to estimate the cost of crime today. Taking this figure from 1992 - 38 billion “crime” crowns - and plotting the value for 2007, based on the consumer price index of the Statistics Central Bureau for 2007, is worth $51 billion. In a criminal policy debate, it is completely uninteresting. This number tells us very little. Although the representative Ellingen does not ask questions about the use and usefulness of obtaining or using such a cost figure, I still allow myself to say a few words about it before I discuss how the cost of crime is affected by the evolution of crime. One thing is to adjust the amount based on the cost index, but we know that crime is evolving and is different today than it was in 1992. The budget has on several occasions and at the latest. S. No 4 for 2003-2004 requested the Ministry to analyse the costs of crime. In St. prp. No 1 for 2004-2005, the Ministry presented the follow-up to Stortingen’s requests. The results of the first preliminary work were summarised in the report ‘Criminal costs of crime’. We both took part in that debate. The report was published in May 2005 and transmitted to Stortinget and in St.prp. No 1 for 2005-2006, the Ministry presented the contents of the report. A central conclusion of the report is the limited value it has to calculate only the total cost of crime. Rather, you should find numbers that can be used in a so-called cost-benefit context. Do they help with the criminal reactions we're doing? If it's the most expensive criminal reaction that produces the worst results, you might want to turn it around a little bit. It is already known from the report mentioned in St.meld. No 23 for 1991-1992, that costs are significant. Some claim that they are now worth about 100 billion kroner, others believe they are about 200 billion dollars, and yet others think it's over 200 billion dollars. Similar surveys in other countries confirm this idea of a numerical problem. If we were to use resources to rediscover uncertain estimates, we would still only know that costs are significant. It is hardly a good use of resources, and the report recommends that other measures be taken, not least cost-benefit analyses, both in terms of police activities and responses in criminal matters. An important cost to be identified is, in the Ministry’s view, the extent and adverse effects of human suffering on crime. This type of crime-related consequence was not appreciated in the 1992 Single European Act. The Ministry of Justice therefore has in St.prp. No 1 for 2007-2008 on page 39. in dialogue with the Directorate for Social and Health. The Ministry has recently received the report ‘Health Effects in Socio-Economic Analysis’ from the Directorate and will examine with great interest the proposals put forward there on cost estimates. Think of violence in close relationships, violence against women, violence against children, which cannot be measured in crowns and ears, and what kind of stress it is in reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1301	I thank the Council of State for the answer, even though I saw it there that the Council of State said two different things. He stressed the importance of creating real information and factual information, including: to focus on how violence in close relationships affects the cost of the ministry, while I realized that he said he was not concerned with the overall problematisation of the total cost to society. If that's the setting, I hope the Council of State can clarify what he really means. I'm going to think that it's that knowledge is power when you're going to solve the social problems that crime actually leads to. If it isn't, I'll be surprised. If you look at the evolution of crime, which I took a quick look at before I got here, researched crimes have doubled from 1991-1992 to 2006. It says something about the development of only reported relationships. If you then generate a factor in how it affects individuals and society as a whole, it should be absolutely of interest to the Council of State to have the most knowledge of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1308	My point is two divided. It is difficult to identify and calculate the costs of crime. Those debates have given us quite little since 1992. If we are to link economic arguments to the fight against crime, we must do so in relation to a cost-benefit effect. We need to look at what measures actually contribute to the decline in crime. For example, you stand. in relation to large tax evasion, a very cost-effective measure is to maintain the efforts made in the tax sector and in the customs sector, and not to do as the Progress Party proposed in its budget, almost eliminate one of the main inputs contributing to the detection of very large economic crime. There's a kind of debate that I think is more relevant than finding a number on the total price of crime. Children and women who experience violence at home will never be able to manifest their suffering in crowns and ears. They have to be motivated by something else.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1313	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I record that he reads the Bible as a certain other man does - without going into that debate! Once again, I think we actually have a difference of opinion in relation to the importance of the total knowledge. When the Council of State fights within the Government for its budget, I believe it is important for him to point out that his ability to fight crime is something that generates great pluses for society in reduced personal and human suffering, in reduced tax losses, in reduced losses of -- let's say -- organized regimes for those who live by organized crime, by the fact that the risk of discovery is greater. It is clear that all such factors should count in relation to the Government’s overall assessment of the extent to which and how to actually bet on fighting crime. I perceive that the Council of State is concerned about the ability of the Progress Party to do the same. I don't share that concern at all. If we put the sizes of our alternative government budget up against the government, the government council has a long way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1320	We have had a significant impact in the government for record betting on the police. The police budgets have never been as big as they are now. We have had record bets on the reduction of the housing queues, which have never been as low in the last two years as they are now. We have been given the means to implement an important reform to clarify more crime, namely the DNA reform, which is coming this year. The reason for this is not, of course, major economic expenditure on society, but because much of the crime we expose is associated with great suffering for the population. If we prevent by having an active justice sector, it will create a better life and more freedom for those who in the future will not experience such crime. It has been - and will be - the motive of the Government in the future, also with regard to our efforts to combat violence against women and children, which we believe will have problems getting on the track if we are to start measuring it in crowns and ears. There we have to show people, bring out the stories, so that we understand what kind of suffering people are suffering.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1328	This question, from the representative of Laila Davay to the Minister for Health and Welfare, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Health and Care.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1331	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘A seriously ill ME patient’s daughter has struggled for several weeks to put a nasal probe down on her native mother, who has severe nutritional problems. She now weighs 35 kg. The procedures refer to hospitalisation, but the patient’s disease is impossible. Hospital stays last year were disastrous. Experienced health professionals are willing to put down the probe at home and follow-up, but it is almost impossible to obtain a specialist statement from a hospital to get the probe equipment from treatment aids. How can this be resolved immediately?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1340	The government is concerned that all sick patients should receive the best possible health care, and that patients feel that they are being taken seriously in our healthcare system. It is the hospital department or the responsible doctor at the hospital who has to assess which treatment offers are most suitable for the individual patient. The hospital also needs to assess the need for further evaluations before deciding on treatment provision. Regional health establishments were given overall responsibility for treatment aids and associated equipment and consumables from 1 January 2003. The responsibility of health undertakings for the specialist health service also includes specialist treatment at home. It implies that the user is entitled to treatment aids at home if this is necessary in the context of medical treatment. Such an assessment will be based on a medical decision. A patient in need of specialist health care needs to have an assessment of their situation and what treatment it will be appropriate to provide. If a patient has not had contact with a hospital in order to receive appropriate treatment, the patient must contact the prescriber in order to obtain referral to the specialist healthcare service. If normal procedures are difficult to follow because of the patient’s disease, the prescriber should, in cooperation with the specialist healthcare department, be able to find practical solutions to investigate and treat the patient. As the representative knows, the patient is entitled to review the specialist healthcare service if he or she is not satisfied with the offer or treatment given to him or her in a hospital. The right shall apply once for the same condition. The representative is also aware that an appeal against the assessment and decision on the right to treatment should be addressed to the Health Authority of the county. I also believe that the patient representatives have an important role to play here, including. by helping patients in the case of complaint proceedings. The Minister of Health and Welfare may not intervene in or take a decision on professional judgements made by a hospital in the treatment of individual patients. She cannot intervene in complaints either. That's why we've set up the systems we have. It is the whole of this system that provides the necessary assurance that the individual patient will be taken seriously and followed up in a good manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1355	I thank the Council of State for the answer. This is not an outstanding example. It is a very serious example that ME patients suffer from a lack of competence both from municipalities and hospitals. Their rights and participation shall be set aside. The health system is hiding behind legislation, the patient is suffering and no one is cutting through. There are examples from other municipalities that have managed to do this. But in this case, a family has fought for five weeks without results. It is not possible to get permanent staff, municipalities and hospitals to cooperate. Some patients are so poor in these cases that they are unable to tolerate moving, but hospitalisation is required. This has been a disaster for many patients in the past. Neither hospitals nor other institutions are currently adapted with sheltered devices for this type of patient. We're in a situation where we're helpless. My question is whether not the Council of State, when no one else is able to cooperate, can intervene and see that happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1366	Firstly, I would like to stress the strong commitment of the Minister of Health and Welfare to this patient group. She has established specific networks and other measures specifically aimed at this patient group and jobs in order to improve their follow-up in health services than they may have had so far. It is not acceptable for individual patients to experience failure of the systems. I do not manage to determine where it has failed, but there are many who are responsible here. It has the hospital, it has the decree and it finally has the Health Authority, which is the Board of Appeal. Here, the patient representative can be helpful in guiding patients in the system. But I don't think we want a situation in which the Minister of Health and Health will go into individual matters to decide what kind of treatment the individual patient should receive.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1373	It takes time to complain. The Councils of State have established the Network of Competences and have engaged in the ME issue. It's positive. Ambulance teams should be set up, not least to help the very sickest ME patients. But other solutions need to be found before this outpatient team is in place. No later than today, I have found out that the healthcare company in question has several departments with ambulatory teams, for example. a neurological department and a separate habilitation unit where they also have their own diet and nutrition team. Any doctor in an outpatient team can obtain treatment aid equipment from the hospital and can also cooperate with municipalities, patients and their relatives and, of course, acquire knowledge of ME from other hospitals or resource personnel. I am very pleased with the answer that this is not acceptable. I feel that we are very much in agreement that what has happened in this case - this should not be the case. But my question is: can the Council of State be so kind as to ensure that ME disease gets help through existing outpatient teams in the hospitals immediately - because it can help?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1384	I can assure you that the Minister of Health and Care maintains his focus on this patient group. Then I trust that those who are responsible for this particular patient will deal with the patient's situation and ensure that she receives the treatment she needs and needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1399	This question has been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1405	This question, too, from Elisabeth Aspaker to the Minister for Health and Welfare, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Health and Care, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1408	First of all, I would like to congratulate the Minister for Fisheries and Coast on the day of the people. So that's the question: ‘TV 2 referred to a case on 30 January in which several psychiatrists in a hospital in the East had treated a man seeking help for his pedophile lay. The man's lawyer said that he admitted to the psychiatrists the abuse of a six-year-old girl, without the police being notified. This meant that the abuse should continue until the man himself went to the police and admitted the abuses. What will the Council of State do to ensure that health professionals comply with the warning obligation in case of suspected child abuse?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1419	First of all, thank you very much for your congratulations. So over to the question and the answer. Health care and the professional practice of healthcare professionals are based on strict confidentiality and privacy requirements for the individual patient. This is important to maintain, and it is therefore reflected in our health legislation. The general rule on the professional secrecy of healthcare professionals is that health professionals should remain silent about what they learn about people's physical or physical conditions or other personal circumstances. But there is a limit to how far the obligation of professional secrecy applies. Consideration of other interests may outweigh the obligation of professional secrecy of a patient. Therefore, more exemptions have been made in health legislation so that health professionals have the right or the obligation to provide information under certain conditions. When health professionals are required to provide information, we talk about the obligation to provide information. In that case, health professionals have the right not only to provide information but also an obligation. Such an obligation to provide information arises under Section 31 of the Health Personnel Act and Section 139 of the Criminal Code. It is necessary to understand that health professionals have an obligation to prevent sexual abuse of children by, for example: giving notice to, inter alia: Police. In the case of necessary warnings to the police to prevent sexual abuse of children, health professionals are obliged to provide information under both health professionals’ and criminal law. Circular IS-17/2006 of the Directorate for Social and Health explains the obligation of health professionals to provide information on emergency situations, child protection services and social services. The circular was issued to inform and focus on the right and obligation of healthcare professionals. In the light of the matter referred to by the representative, it may seem that not all health professionals are well aware that the obligation to provide information to the police under Section 31 of the Health Personnel Act and Section 139 of the Criminal Act precedes the obligation to maintain silence. The Minister of Health and Welfare will therefore ensure that it is appropriately clarified through the ownership management of regional health establishments that health professionals have such an obligation to provide information if the situation is such that it falls within one of the provisions in question. The Minister of Health and Health will also ensure that local health professionals are made specifically aware of the obligation to provide information to the police, by including it in the 2008 Circular IS-1/2008 of the Directorate of Social and Health on national objectives, main priorities and grants. This circular is sent to the municipalities, county councils, regional health establishments and county councillors. However, in the treatment context, problems may arise where the caregivers may have doubts as to whether the case is serious enough or whether it is well known to the caregivers are information which falls within the scope of the penal code. Therefore, there is reason to recall that there is an opportunity to discuss such issues anonymised with police lawyers, the Health Authority, the Social and Health Directorate and also to use the clinical ethics committees in hospitals to raise ethical issues that may arise in the intersection between being a therapist and being a reporter. I would also encourage trade unions and employees to keep these issues alive. They are too important to be brought up only in situations where messages are not given.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1445	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I believe that this case clearly shows that it is a way to go before children in Norway have the protection they require. In assault cases, it is often a problem that children are not believed to be involved in explaining abuse. In this case, therefore, the attacker stands out, but the health care professionals are silent in his whole confession of abuse, which is therefore allowed to continue. I think it's very sympathetic and incredibly difficult to accept that as highly trained health professionals as these psychiatrists are, they can have such a fundamental misconception of how to understand their warning duty to the police. I therefore ask the Council of State if she sees that there is a need to take new initiatives to ensure a legal understanding that helps children in crisis get help as soon as possible, and to stop a practice where the consideration of young people is given less weight than the consideration of an adult exceeds.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1456	As I explained in my reply, the legislation in this area is clear. However, there may seem to be groups in the healthcare system that may not be sufficiently familiar with the legislation. The Minister of Health and Health is doing something about this by now sending out information on the obligation to provide information in this type of case.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1461	I also thank you for that answer. I would like to say that this is a subject on which there is a broad political consensus that we should focus. In Norway, we have a lot of action plans, we have a lot of actions, and there are many departments that are involved and are partly responsible. Then the government has to take the overall responsibility for things being coordinated. With background to this case, but also with background to Focus on the NRK yesterday, where they leveled out a case about a pedophile network that had lasted for 30 years, and where it put Kripos investigators and admitted that there are not enough resources to deal with and get to the bottom of such issues, I will ask the Council of State the following questions: Does the Government see the need to take new initiatives to ensure that such action plans become well-known in the relevant professional environments, and that an even clearer focus is placed on the need to safeguard the child's situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1470	I just want to stress that the legal certainty of children is something that the government has a great deal of focus on. As the Minister of Justice explained in his answer to Mr Ellingsen's question, family violence has just been lifted by this government, and it is being worked on by the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Justice, for example. multi-disciplinary cooperation. We follow up on the work of action plans, which it is important to have, and we also follow up on resources for this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1477	Then the Storting goes back to question 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1483	This question, from the representative of Gunnar Kvassheim to the Minister for the Environment and Development, has been transferred to the Minister for Oil and Energy who is directing him. The question will, however, be answered by the Minister for Agriculture and Food on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1486	‘In the Soria Moria Declaration, government parties promised to protect the Weapon Line from power expansion by including it in the Watercourse Protection Plan. Now the government has been sitting for almost two and a half years without promoting a case of such protection. A protective case about Wefsna is now requested from different teams, while others seem to want to have a fight for the protection of this watercourse. When will the Government promote a protective case of the Weftnavassläck for the Stortinget?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1493	It's not bad to have to represent so many government councils at once in this room. Let me first make it clear that the government statement is firm. When the representative refers to the request for a rematch in this case, it is then wishes that lie outside of the Government, and that I am not familiar with. The protection of Weftsna will be presented in a proposition together with the setting of the protection issue for the three watercourses of the Stortinget asked the Government for protection in the treatment of the supplementation of the protection plan in 2005. This applies to the Langvella in the southern Tributary, the East Sea Basin in Hordaland and the lower part of the Tovdal Watercourse in Agder. A package of measures, as provided for in the Soria Moria Declaration, shall also be submitted to the Weftsn region together with the safeguard case. It is not going to get away from the fact that the protection of the tissue raises a number of issues. In this connection, I point out that the river basin of Wefsna includes several municipalities with commercial interests and settlements that need to be taken into account. The government believes that the protection of such large areas obliges both state, regional and local authorities. The Government is therefore committed to the management and follow-up of a safeguard decision in such a way as to preserve the protection values as best as possible, while respecting the user interests where they can be reconciled. When the protection of watercourses is to be adopted, basic rules of procedure must be followed. That is why, among other things, necessary for a hearing in the district. I hope the representative Kvassheim understands that we have to take the time to do that. Progress in the case of protection is good, and we aim to make a proposition for the Storting in the course of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1506	I am pleased that it is confirmed that the Government is standing by the government statement and adds to the protection of the Weefsnavassläck. I also hope that the Council of State can confirm that this is a full protection without interference or expansion that is normally not allowed in sheltered watercourses, i.e. that one adds to a protective regime for the Wefsna that is in line with what is normal in terms of watercourse protection. Because there's one that's made it possible to allow a slightly larger space for the expansion of small power. I will have confirmed from the Council that this will not be the case. There is a watercourse to which large protective values are attached, and then it is of great importance that we talk about a full protection without opening for interventions that are not normally linked to this type of watercourse.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1511	As I said in my first answer, there is no rematch on this case of protection. This means that the tissue must be protected and that its content is in line with the intentions underlying this matter. As I also said, there will be a local process with hearing bodies and getting the local population involved in this process, which will take place within the limits that such a protection decision must have in order to be good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1516	Then I believe that one might sum up saying that in the course of the year there will be a matter of protecting the fabric of the Stortinget, and that this is a scheme that provides a full protection, a protection in line with what a normal person is talking about when talking about sheltered watercourses. It's good that we've been clarified on these two points. The Council of State said that it was foreseen that a plan of measures would be put in place for the Storting together with the protection issue. In this regard, there is a point that the gyro treatment of this watercourse is not at the level it should be. This is because one prioritizes the funds on other watercourses. However, some of the necessary measures in relation to the salmon stock in the watercourse are therefore exposed as a result of the postponement of the action plan. Can the Council of States confirm that the effort to combat gyrosis in this watercourse will be prioritised and not put at risk pending the arrival of the protection issue in the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1523	In the same way that the details of the contents of the protection of tissues will be clarified in the proposition coming to the Stortinget, the details of the last question raised by the representative here will also be affected on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1528	Then the Storting goes on to question 18.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1534	Then I must ask the councillor to change the hat, back to something he might be more comfortable with! ‘An article in the Official Journal on 31 January 2008 shows that the average age of agriculture has increased significantly. The proportion of farmers under 40 had fallen to 21 percent in 2006. What concrete proposals will the Council of State promote for the Storting to reverse the long-standing negative trend in recruiting young people to the agricultural industry?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1543	I agree with the representative Fostervold that it is important to recruit young people for agriculture. The ageing composition of farmers in Norway has been somewhat stable. In 2005, the number was 22 pst. by the applicants for production subsidies in agriculture under 40 years of age, while in 2007 the corresponding figure was 21 pst. In 1995, there were 26 p.m. of the farmers under 40 years of age. I also want to show that the proportion of young farmers is lower in some other countries that it is natural to compare with. Figures from the SSB show that the proportion of Norwegian farmers under 44 in 2005 was 34 pst. In comparison, the corresponding share in Sweden was 23 pst. I believe that much of the basis for getting more young people into agriculture is about economics and about attitudes towards how they view seas as a future farmer. It is important that young people who consider entering the industry get the feeling that they are involved in something important, and that they do a socially valuable job in producing food, taking care of the cultural landscape and delivering in relation to district policy. In this context, I would like to point out that the changes we see internationally in the food situation, climate issues and the increased focus on resource management, and concretely on food production, will contribute to this, because the focus on food production will increase in the future. Having said that, I nevertheless believe that the most important measure for new recruitment to Norwegian agriculture is the framework conditions in industry in relation to income opportunities, access to capital and well-being. It was therefore important for me to prioritize this when I started my work. After having had a 10-year period of extremely low income development in agriculture, it was necessary to put in place a future trend in income that points a different path to what has been the case in the past. We had an income development up to 2005 of 2.75 pst. in the year of agriculture. It is low, and it has obviously also had a bearing on recruitment to the industry, because over time, the trend in income, perhaps among their parents, has been lower than that of, for example, those with whom they have been employed. Friends' parents. So the 2.75 pst. is also part of the explanation of why the numbers are as they are. For my part, I believe that what has been done around the agricultural settlement in 2007, where we reached an agreement that meant a completely different income development for agriculture, along with the agricultural settlement in 2006, where we also had a significant improvement in agricultural income opportunities, are concrete, important measures to facilitate future recruitment to agriculture. This is my main response to the representative Foster Violence in terms of the recruitment challenge in the industry. Then we also have concrete tools to get new activity on the farms. These are mainly rural development funds. They shall be used to maintain the existing establishment on the farm while at the same time creating new profitable business on the individual farm and on the premises. In terms of those means, we have an increased frame. I believe it is important to continue to have a level of rural development funds, investment instruments, which means that young people see that launching projects on each farm is actually feasible also economically, because there is access to that kind of funding. Finally, I would like to say that in the 2007 agricultural agreement, it was decided to launch an agricultural recruitment and equality programme. The progress of this work is good, and in the department we are now discussing a draft programme for equality and recruitment called ‘Now it is my turn’. It is Norway’s Building Youth Team that has been commissioned to implement the initiative, and in their outline there are many exciting activities. Young people who can be recruited into agriculture are a central target group, and the prerequisite for taking action should be good, as long as it is the youth seam that has now come up with proposals for action. But in summary, I believe that the primary response here is a relation to the general framework conditions, the economy, and seeing that one has the opportunity to generate income, as in other industries, by producing food.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1558	At least I registered that there were no new proposals to address this, but that you are going to go to the agricultural agreement. I think we'll see a drastic change in it if you're going to catch up with the problem that's here, and now it's a little bit urgent. The councils were within positions. Unfortunately, we cannot adopt any positions here on the Storting, but I share the view that awareness-raising work must also be carried out in order to make agriculture attractive. But the big challenge, I think, lies in economics, and there are some challenges here, which the Council of State is very aware of, with regard to some rules and regulations and perhaps some major investments that need to be made, at least in the dairy sector, up to 2024. Governments were in BU funds and the VSP programmes. The national audit has not been so much pleased with the development of those programmes and their impact. Will the Council of State take the initiative to set up those programmes against youth in order to address the problem of recruitment?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1565	It is not true that I mentioned the VSP in my post, but I can also comment on it. In relation to the arrangements for the various programmes, provision shall be made to young people in and around them. It is today, and I have an open attitude about discussing how we can get better at it all the time. Otherwise, I have to say that I think it is a little special to hear the representative Fostervold standing here on the pulpit of the Storting and worrying about the economy of agriculture. It is a representative of a party who has made proposals in this Chamber to cut billions of billions towards the same industry, and if anything would help to weaken the recruitment of agriculture, it is that the Progress Party and the representative of Fostervold have their policies implemented. Then it becomes economically very difficult for young people to have a future in agriculture, and it is going to be a completely different and weakened recruitment towards the industry than is the case today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1572	I record that the Council of State cast doubt on my commitment to agriculture. It will be on his account, even though the Progress Party has a different set of agricultural policies, which are based on a greater ability to produce what you want and to use what you own in order to achieve a sustainable basis of life. But then there are some other issues as regards the policy of the Government and the Minister of Agriculture, because the inherent belief that today's young people, who have grown up in a completely different world than those who run the farms now, like to stand by and wait for subsidies, and that it should be attractive to attract young people to the agricultural industry, which I think is all wrong. When we talk about how to get young people into agriculture, I have another case, about subsidies for the elderly, that is, if you go to the opposite end: 67-year-olds get reduced grants, 70-year-olds get even more reduced grants. Is this an instrument with which the Council of State is satisfied?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1579	Interestingly, the relationship with 67-70-year-olds has been incorporated into a debate on recruitment to the industry. Otherwise, I did not doubt the agricultural policy of the Progress Party. I have concluded it too far in relation to it. It is totally inappropriate to create optimism and recruitment for agriculture. I also believe that the views expressed here by the representative Fostervold at the Parliamentary Chair of the European Parliament, namely that it should be paid to create common resources related to cultural landscapes and rural policies such as ‘lua at hand’ and to receive subsidies from the State, represent a significant challenge for young people to meet up with the task of producing food.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1587	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries and Coast: ‘A recent report by the Russian veterinary authorities criticises the situation in a number of Norwegian fishing establishments. According to the Food Authority, there is a breach of Norwegian and Russian rules of varying severity. There has been a long dispute over which Norwegian fishing establishments are allowed to export fish to Russia. What will the Council of State do to improve the hygiene quality of Norwegian fishing establishments and will the Council of State ensure that Norwegian fishing establishments have more predictable export conditions to Russia?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1596	Last autumn, two Russian inspection teams were in Norway to look at the seafood establishments. Russian veterinary services have recently sent a report pointing to what they consider to be improvement points in the inspected Norwegian establishments. The Food Safety Authority also participated in the inspection and has followed up the activities as part of the normal oversight in accordance with the applicable Norwegian legislation. None of the deviations found by the inspectors of the Food Safety Authority were such as to require the closure or prohibition of placing on the market. It is important for me to clarify that the hygienic standard of Norwegian fishing establishments is consistently good and that the establishments are approved for export to the world. Those who wish to export to Russia must also comply with the requirements of the Russian veterinary service. Consequently, the inspectors of the Food Safety Authority are also following up the activities in relation to the feedback provided by the Russian authorities. The report of the Russian veterinary service shows largely anomalies similar to those identified by the Food Safety Authority. Most of these are therefore already closed or are being closed. Although the hygiene standard in Norwegian fishing establishments is consistently good, we need to invest even more in quality and hygiene in 2008. More supervision will be exercised, and the Food Authority will ensure that the deviations are closed more quickly. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the responsibility for the safety of food lies with the Ministry of Health and Health. As part of the Government’s fresh fish strategy, in 2008 the Food Authority will focus on landings and handling of fresh fish, and in this context they will also implement a national maritime food surveillance campaign. Russia is one of the main markets for Norwegian seafood. It is the Government's goal that anyone who wants it will have the opportunity to export to Russia. We want a situation where trade goes free again, without restrictions. Having said that, however, we must respect and accept that Russia, as an importing country, can have special conditions that they want to meet according to their own needs and interests. We also have to deal with the fact that the division of responsibilities and work between industry and government is different there than with us. As long as Russia is not a member of the WTO, this is particularly important to understand. I believe that our objective of free trade can only be achieved through cooperation with the Russian authorities. The Norwegian authorities, and in particular the Food Authority, are therefore committed to developing good cooperation with the Russian veterinary service. Last year, a joint Norwegian-Russian working group was set up, which is a permanent meeting forum to discuss issues related to maritime food trade. Through this cooperation, we want to achieve the acceptance of the Norwegian system of seafood production, management and supervision.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1617	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think it was very good and positive in the answer given by the Council of State, and my impression is that the Government has put a necessary focus on this with food security and the requirements of the EEA Agreement. There has also been a report from ESA that has criticised the job done by the Swedish Food Safety Authority. I guess it was last autumn. As the Council of State was in it, the Russian market is one of the most important markets for the export of Norwegian fish. What I think the industry is experiencing, and what you can imagine from the media image that exists at any time when it comes to exports to Russia, is that Russia is a demanding partner and has strict requirements for those who are going to export to Russia. The question then is: are the requirements that Russia has, changed along the way, or are they established with regard to imports?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1624	First of all, I would like to comment on the ESA report. It is now being followed up by more supervision, and by the fact that the Food Authority has a greater focus on closing deviations faster. It's a report we've taken very seriously. As regards the issue of Russian requirements, the restrictions on imports of Norwegian farmed salmon started with allegations of presence of foreign substances in the salmon. So it wasn't hygiene that was the starting point. It's a topic that's gotten stronger on the track lately. If we agree or disagree with the objections of the Russian veterinary service to Norwegian seafood, I consider it very important that we have good answers to the questions they are asking. It requires thoroughness on the part of the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, on the part of the Norwegian Food Authority, and not least on the part of the Norwegian industry. It should also be said that although the situation we are currently facing is an undesirable situation, because it does not ensure a level playing field for Norwegian exporters, the export of salmon to Russia has increased during this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1631	I thank the Council again for the answer. As the situation is now, it is the Russian veterinary authorities and the Food Safety Authority that in a way premise those who are to be allowed to export to Russia through the checks they do. What we in the Progress Party have sometimes called for both in terms of salmon and in the pelagic sector and the possibility of exporting to Russia is a stronger commitment from the Government and from the Council of State to a dialogue with the Russian authorities at the level of the State Council - just to ensure more predictability of the fishing industry. I could imagine challenging the Council of States if there would be a basis for having a contact at the level of the Council of State with the Russian authorities in order to get a more general picture and a firmer regulatory framework for exports to Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1638	Let me just underline that the long-term objective of the Government is that the Norwegian Food Authority should be approved by the Russian authorities as the establishment that approves Norwegian seafood for export. In the short term, we work to ensure that as many companies as possible are inspected. And so it is that several state councils have addressed this matter with the Russian counterparts. Among other things, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has addressed this several times. I myself would have met with the head of the Russian Fisheries Committee in Oslo this week, but unfortunately he had to cancel his visit. Of course, it will be followed up at the political level of time to come. But it is not useful with the political dialogue alone. It also needs to be followed up at a professional level and with good evidence that our seafood is safe to eat, both for Russians and for Norwegians.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-06.ana.ud1614e1645	The current map has thus been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
