ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e46	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e55	The ability of Norwegian society to make seniors stand longer in the workplace is of great importance for future value creation and well-being. Pension reform is the most important tool we have to achieve the objective. The ability to combine retirement and work becomes much more attractive with the new system. A survey referred to in NAV's Work and Welfare Report, No. 1 for this year, indicates that as many as half of the AFP pensioners and six out of ten employees thought it was likely that they would combine work and retirement if the pension were not curtailed against labour income. Through the pension reform, we have facilitated such a race. It is also gratifying that in this year's private sector tariff revision, we have received an adapted AFP scheme that will build up under the pension reform. A reduced working time entitlement for workers aged 62 will also help to combine work and social security on the basis of their own assumptions. We are discussing today a proposal to legislate for such a right. The majority of the Committee endorses the proposal. We believe that the right to reduced working time will increase professional activity, because the option for most people will not be to work full time, but not to work at all. For enterprises, reduced working hours for those over 62 will be a way of retaining some of the skills and efforts of these groups. The alternative will be to lose all effort. In the context of the consideration by the Stortingen of the senior notification, the Committee stressed in its opinion that: ‘The importance of setting up, at local level, an active and targeted senior policy with a ‘menu’ of concrete measures that can be applied to older workers in order to help enable individuals to remain longer in work’. The company's senior policy is being developed locally, but society is setting the scene. Thus, the right to a reduced working time for those over 62 years of age becomes one of several frameworks for the company's own senior actions. Willing statements from the Storting Committee settings are valuable contributions for businesses and individual employees when designing the senior measures, but legalising the right to reduced working time is likely to have more impact. Some companies will experience that the practice of this employee right is a burden and a disadvantage in day-to-day operation. As legislators, we need to weigh more attention against each other, and the consideration of individual workers and the needs of society speaks in our assessment of a law-making process. However, it is the case that the right is not proposed to be absolute but limited, in line with and in the same way as the right to reduced working time in force, i.e. that the right will not apply where it would cause a significant disadvantage to the holding. The assessment of the level of disadvantage will vary from case to case and must be based on the specific situation of the enterprise and the employee. Such assessments are made to a greater or lesser extent daily in Norwegian working life. It is also such that any disagreement as to the assessment of the existence of a reduced working time right may be submitted to the dispute resolution denominator for decision. In total, this legislative change represents an important step towards the new world of work in which we use the working capacity of seniors as much as possible, but also in such a way that the seniors themselves find it attractive to participate in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e82	According to HegnarOnline on 23 April, it is noted that four out of ten enterprises exclude the elderly, and only 2.5 pst. public and private enterprises have a goal of recruiting seniors. These are frightening numbers and something that I am afraid will strengthen itself with the bill that is being dealt with today. Research coordinator Tove Midtsundstad in Fafo has found that very few enterprises are actively focusing on senior policy, despite increasing pressure on the labour market. The agreement on inclusive working life and national leverage for senior employment policies is found to have far less impact than the policy assumptions indicate. Mapping is part of the Work Life Programme of the Research Council. In the context of an extension of the IA agreement in 2006, the Government set itself the goal of increasing the expected retirement age for persons over 50 years by at least six months in the period 2001-2009. The new IA Agreement, valid until the end of 2009, places increased emphasis on senior policy. Despite the lack of interest in private businesses, Midsundstad does not believe that many more jobs in IA companies today than at the end of 2005 - even though the proportion of IA companies working more actively with senior policy may have increased somewhat. The public has seen that there are insufficient legal requirements to prevent the exclusion of some groups from the labour market. Therefore, instead of whipping carrots, Midsundstad points out. However, the research project in Fafo shows that neither private nor public enterprises share the Government’s objective. The most discouraging thing in an IA perspective is maybe that's just 2.5 pst. The aim of all establishments is to actively seek to recruit more older workers. It concerns one of 20 municipal and state enterprises, but so to speak none of the enterprises in the private sector, states Midsundstad. Four out of ten businesses also said that they excluded the elderly as interesting for recruitment. The survey was carried out at the turn of the year 2005/2006, before the labour shortage became equally apparent in all industries. Mid-City points out that, nevertheless, there is a large proportion of enterprises that have a staff policy that takes account of the seniors. Either provide the various measures for older people with health problems and reduced working capacity, they have specific health prevention measures, they encourage older people to continue to develop their skills and careers, or they do other things to keep older workers. The proposal for increased rights will be far older than the current one, and it will also lead to the fact that it will be impossible for people over 50 years of age to change jobs. The increased financial liabilities of older employees will lead to enterprises recruiting younger and younger persons. The legislative proposal presented will, in the view of the Progress Party, increase the number of older workers and will cause problems from the age of 50 onwards. This is also something that a unanimous committee says something about in the Inner East. S. No 200 for 2006-2007, where, inter alia: read: ‘The Committee will demonstrate that there are also a number of dilemmas in senior policy. On the one hand, authorities may wish to set up ‘schemes’ to help, in isolation, older workers to remain longer in work. On the other hand, the sum of such measures, in real terms, can help older workers to get into problems on the labour market because older workers become too expensive. The Committee is therefore of the opinion that welfare and pension policies need to be set up in such a way that they actively stimulate individuals to take up longer employment. At the same time, the various incentive schemes of a financial nature should be set up in such a way that it is worthwhile for each employer to take good care of its older employees. ‘... The Progress Party regrets that the Committee does not continue to adopt such an approach. The Committee further states in the same document: ‘The Committee will stress the importance of setting up, at local level, an active and targeted senior policy with a ‘menu’ of concrete measures that can be applied to older workers in order to contribute to the ability of individuals to take longer jobs. Such concrete measures may include shorter working days for periods, more leisure time, flexible working time, additional assistance intake, fewer evening, night or weekend shifts, smaller cleaning areas, responsibility for a smaller number of users and mentoring tasks for younger employees. ‘... Such measures would be more individualised and would be far more effective in reaching the target audience. In addition, these proposals would lead to a lower cost pressure on enterprises that employ seniors, which in turn would lead to greater opportunities for seniors to become more seniors in the labour market. The Progress Party will therefore vote against the proposed text.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e114	I must first say that I was quite surprised when this proposal came from the Government, not because we had not heard about it before, but because we had probably thought that the Government would not follow up this, given the developments we have seen in the labour market, the solution that was found in the wage settlement and the AFP system, and not least the treatment that we had from the paper on senior policy. When we dealt with it -- I had the pleasure of being the case rapporteur for it -- we were very concerned about, as the representative of Kenneth Svendsen recently indicated, that there was no need to set up schemes that would, in sum, contribute to the problems of older workers in the labour market. I'm worried that this amendment to the law might mean that the older worker is having problems. Today we are dealing with the first concrete follow-up of the Government's senior report. The first thing we see now is that the government is proposing, and getting in touch with its armsmen here in the Chamber, is a system that, in reality, could contribute to the problem of older workers. This is, in the Right's view, a poor senior policy. Let it be said immediately: if we are to be concerned that older workers will remain in the labour market, we need to look at many different measures to get this done. In some contexts, it would be sensible for each senior to be given more freedom, for example: through some reduced working time or more vacation time. So the problem here is not the action itself, but the law. We see that this has worked very well in the workplace for several years. The problem will be, what will the outcome of a general statutory right mean? Well, the danger is that one will end up with a unified management of measures in senior policy because this action alone will be the first choice. What other incentives should an employer have towards their older employees in order to pursue a good senior policy, tailored to the individual’s needs, wishes and prerequisites when the solution is offered in the form of a law? It may also seem that you do not fully agree with yourself on how such a statutory right should actually work. It is well known that by reaching 62 years you have a right to work reduced. However, the right will only be triggered if it is not a ‘significant disadvantage’ for the enterprise, as it says. It doesn't seem clear what this really means. Too many small and medium-sized enterprises will always be penalised for some to work less. In many districts, it will simply not be possible to cover the loss of competence resulting from the right. I believe that this right-wing ceremony is a bad senior policy, but it is also a bad business policy and a bad district policy. The government is talking about being an integral part of labour policy, pursuing an active industrial policy and providing housing and business in the districts. The proposition we have for treatment today shows that this is not just words without content, it's actually words with exact opposite content. In the examination of the senior report, a unanimous committee said that it would stress the importance of setting up an active and targeted senior policy at local level, at individual workplaces, with a menu of concrete measures that can be applied to older workers. For my part, I would like to add that it must always be the individual and its competence, abilities and opportunities that limit professional participation - not how old an individual is. It is a major dilemma that employment costs are often much higher today than the costs incurred by the enterprise when employees are pushed out of the labour market. The right considers it absolutely necessary to do something about this dilemma in order to achieve the objective of fewer exclusions and more inclusion in the labour market. In view of the solution that has come so far in terms of salary and contractual pensions, there is reason to believe that the preconditions of the pension reform for a good senior policy are broken, and that the legislative proposal we are dealing with here will lead to a much higher employment costs in the case of older workers. There is a reason why an overall employer’s side in the hearings is opposed to this legalisation. I think it is alarming that the government does not take any more account of this in its senior policy, because it is actually in the companies that the elderly should work, be hired and get a good end to their professional career.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e127	SV is pleased with the draft law that we are discussing today. But we are a little surprised at the debate that arises in the wake of it, especially because the parties that otherwise strongly advocate greater opportunities to make independent decisions and for freedom of choice, in this case chooses to say that there should be no workers. The flexibility now to be found in the new old-age pension system, where work and social security can be combined from the age of 62, logically follows such a proposal that we are now adopting today, so that the possibility of using that flexibility must actually be present. The Progress Party, the Right and the Left have a strange and misunderstood interpretation of what we agreed on when we discussed the senior report, namely that this proposal should mean leaving a line where good senior policy is organised in the individual's activities, and that a menu of concrete actions should be replaced by the right line. There's no difference between this, it's the opposite of a supplement. This is not a whip for businesses, but a greater freedom of choice for individual workers. If senior policy is good at work, it will eliminate what could be perceived as a disadvantage to the enterprise. The disadvantage will be able to deal effectively with a good senior policy locally that makes people not taking this choice. It pays for the companies to take care of the individual employee today, and it is going to pay off with this law in the future. Today's court is not in the way of good local seniority measures at all, but provides an opportunity for the employee who thinks this is the right solution. My assessment is that the exclusion will not increase with this proposal. There's much greater reason to fear that more seniors will have to get out of work if we don't follow up with a right to continue in part-time. The concept of ‘significant disadvantage’ has also been questioned. It is not a concept specific to this law or to this paragraph, for it is the same type of assessment that applies to part-time requirements according to other provisions of the same law. There is no new practice in relation to it. However, it is clear that if businesses do not see fit to pursue a senior policy that will allow older workers to remain in the labour market any longer, this will give the individual a right to require part-time work, but under the conditions laid down by the law, that it should not lead to ‘significant disadvantage’. I believe this is a good legislative proposal. I think it will contribute to a better senior policy and that the combination of work and social security will be used more in the future in the age range where we see that exclusion from the labour market is today high, thus contributing to the opposite trend.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e138	In this case, I think we all have commitment and desire for a good senior policy. We view older workers as a resource with a lot of experience. Gradual dwindling can be associated with and increase the actual age of departure for many of them. No one deserves to be left entirely out of the labour market. From time to time, a few impressions may be that the use of language in politics may seem a little excessive in relation to the real content of the matter under discussion. I guess we're not going to stick under the chair that the message sometimes has to be both pointed and simplified in order for one to get the points clear. In this case, to be honest, I think that both the government side, which has put forward the proposal to legislate the right to a reduced working time for workers over 62 years of age, and the opposition parties, who oppose the proposal, are well aware of their arguments for the benefits and disadvantages of the proposal. The Christian People's Party has chosen to endorse the proposal primarily because of the logical link between the possibility of flexible retirement in the pension reform. But we think that the purpose of the bill would have been achieved far on the way, even without legislation, in normal discussions between the social partners or directly between the employer and the employee. At the same time, we believe that the Progress Party, the Right and the Left are well aware of their attempts to predict what might happen to the attractiveness of the seniors in the labour market as a result of this legalisation. We don't think it means that much. There is a need for skilled labour in the labour market that will primarily control the demand for seniors. The criticism of the concept of ‘significant disadvantage’ to which companies can rely to say no to a demand for reduced working time also makes it difficult for us to agree. After all, it is a term used elsewhere in the Working Environment Act and used in the legal paragraphs proposed by the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left itself from the government position. I can mention Section 10-2 on working time arrangements, where it says: «Worker is entitled to flexible working hours if this can be carried out without significant disadvantage for the activity. ‘... And I can mention Section 12-6 about partial leave that “must be fulfilled unless this causes significant disadvantages to the business”. As I said, the Christian People's Party supports the concrete proposal, and at the same time we are opening up the possibility of evaluating this concrete change after some time. Should it give clear negative effects against assumption, the wording of the law may be changed at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e156	All parties agree that we will have a right to withdraw the pension from 62 years of age in popular security. There is also a broad consensus to pass on the State contribution to a contractual pension from 62 years of age. So the right to a pension from 62 years of age is fixed. We also agree on the importance of stimulating a new pension scheme to stay longer in work. The right to a pension of 62 years must not be accompanied by the normality of taking out a full pension from that date. For many, however, it will be a prerequisite for longer work that it opens up in order to be able to escalate something. We know that employees meet differently when it comes to being able to do this. Unfortunately, it is not so rare that the willingness to open up part-time is limited in part-time work. The consequences are that too many people go out of work. I believe that the proposals in Ot.prp. No 30 for 2007-2008 follow up in an appropriate manner the decisions on entitlement to early retirement from 62 years of age and the wish that more people should find it possible to stay longer in work. A rule on the right to a reduced working time will give many workers important signals that they are wanted in the workplace, and it will give many employers important signals that they need to facilitate part-time work. The minority will not contribute to this. They believe that the labour market itself needs to figure out how to adapt to the right to retirement from the age of 62 - they do. I think that there are far too many targets when it is said by the minority that the majority has now left the line how good senior policy is something that the individual workplace must also be involved in. No, I guess we didn't leave that. But we believe that it is not necessarily the working life that needs to figure this out alone, and the senior report also got us because it is a public task to build up this working life. Of course, good senior policy will have to be developed in the workplace, but a good law that builds up this will help both the employee and the employer. I must also ask the minority why they are so afraid to legislate for the right to reduced working time, when they consider this an excellent tool, cf. inter alia: the common wording we have on this in the setting of the senior report. I believe that we must aim to stimulate longer work – that full-time or part-time is in focus. The minority seems to be one-sided about the consequences this may have for employers who do not want to contribute to flexible solutions. That's what I think the minority should think more carefully about.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e167	The left will determine that it must always be the individual and its abilities, competences and opportunities that limit professional participation, not how old you are. This means that the senior policy must be organised as a labour force, where the free contract law between the employee and the employer forms the basis for the employment relationship. This implies that the most effective means of achieving the objective of a more inclusive working life and more seniors who can work longer must initially be economic incentives that must be targeted at individual workers and at individual businesses. The left considers that there are many ways of facilitating reduced working time where it is needed. With a population that is getting healthier and living longer, I would point out that the need to legislate for the right to reduced working time seems unnecessary. For some groups, however, there will be a need for a reduction in working time, and the Left considers it important that the social partners resolve this, where necessary, through negotiation. The left wants to open up more temporary jobs for them over 62 years to encourage employers to hire more older workers. In general, we want a more flexible working life for the seniors. This means opening up more individual agreements for them over 62 years. Left wants to provide very flexible working time solutions for people of that age group. Especially for women in heavy care, this will be important together with more individual organisation at the workplace. Employees in care professionals are particularly vulnerable to injury and stress, and keeping people in the profession as long as possible will be important to meet the challenges of an ageing population. This may include, inter alia: involve flexible rotational arrangements and more emphasis on technical aids to avoid heavy lifting. Therefore, each employee over 45 years of age in heavy care should be able to have an assessment of his/her working situation, with an emphasis on individual organisation. The left will vote against the amendment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e178	I believe that there are very strong incentives already now, and that will also be in the future, for employers to have an active senior policy, simply because the biggest challenge in the future will, as a general rule, be a lack of labour. When we look at demographic developments in Norway and the rest of Europe, we will see that the normal thing is that we will lack labour. So, of course, the pressure in that challenge will vary somewhat according to the economic cycle, but the main picture will be so, that those who think about A4 recruitment in the future will be the losers in Norwegian working life. That's my claim. Therefore, it will be very important for both public and private employers in the future to focus on recruiting seniors, recruiting people with a migrant background, recruiting people with disabilities - that is, having a strong focus on what is now called marginal groups in the labour market. There are strong incentives on the employer’s side to have an active and good senior policy. So I mean, and the Storting agreed, it's been a challenge that the incentives on the workers' side, in terms of working long at the end of the career, have been weak. So, the entire pension scheme, including the AFP, has almost had no incentive to get employees to work. That's why, in recent years, we've concentrated a lot on setting up a new pension scheme, with a flexible retirement pension for those who have earned rights from 62 years, and setting up a contractual pension solution, AFP, which meant that flexibility could be achieved even if you chose to take out the AFP. We did that. And we've done it. So now we have strong incentives on the employee side to work even if you're 62 years old, and even if you have the right to take out a pension. The whole of that pension scheme is also designed to allow those who don't have that choice, i.e. those who don't work, to get rid of a decent pension from 62 years. What we're doing now-- and that's where I have to say 100 pst. agree with the representative Woie Duesund - to look at the law, to see if it logically harmonizes with both the labour challenges we face and the changes we make as a result of the pension reform. Then I would say there are two areas where I think it is logical to make changes to the Working Environment Act. One is to ensure legally the flexibility we now have in the pension system, including in the Working Environment Act. I agree with Mr. Woie Duesund that I think it has given more symbolic meaning to the challenges that employers have in acquiring enough labour than a real meaning. But when we now stimulate flexibility through the pension system, it is right to ensure that right also as a clear signal through the amendment of the work environment law and the right to work part-time from 62 years. In the course of the time that comes, I will also send to the hearing a proposal to do something about a different age limit that is important in the Working Environment Act, namely the 70-year limit, where, according to today's Work Environment Act, it's really good to cancel employees only they've reached 70 years. It's also going to be a very wrong signal in the pension system we're going to have. Then there's got to be a different reason to cancel people than you've reached a certain age. In other words, the considerations that go beyond the scope of the redundancy clause also have to be incorporated into the Working Environment Act to a greater extent. Then we have adapted the Working Environment Act to the pension reform far on the way, and I am glad that Odelstingen is joining us today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e191	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e195	It was good to hear that we have a change in the 70s rule, which the Progress Party has proposed for a number of years - it's better late than never, of course. Throughout society, the price mechanism is used as a means to stop unwanted developments. What we want more of, we put down the price of, and what we want less of, we set up the price of: high alcohol charges to limit the use of alcohol, sugar fees to limit the use of sugar, high speed fines to avoid high speed -- I could mention a lot of such examples. Then we come to the senior policy, and then it's clearly the opposite that applies. In this case, the price of the employer is increased so that it is more expensive for an employer to buy labour if the person is older. Can the Council of State explain what suggests that the price mechanism works against everything else in society in terms of senior policy - that increased prices lead to more jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e204	The representative Svendsen is probably trying for a good reason, but I feel that the reasoning fails completely in the start-up phase. The changes we are now making in the Working Environment Act do not lead to an increase in the price of the seniors. In my opinion, this is a completely wrong starting point. The changes are only to ensure that the seniors have a right to part-time, and this leads to more seniors taking longer to work. It is good for Norwegian employers who want to lack labour, so this amendment contributes to Norwegian enterprises being profitable and well-earned in the future. The whole reasoning is based on a wrong starting point, and then, of course, the conclusion is also wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e211	It is enough in this case as in some other issues of Norwegian policy, that the objectives we can reasonably agree on, but from time to time there will be strong disagreement as to what instruments we believe work to achieve the objectives. I appreciated the fact that the Council of State now signaled so clearly that he wanted to lift the 70-year rule. We look forward to that. And then I also appreciated that the Council of State was so clear when he said that the biggest challenge in the future would be the lack of labour. What I could imagine challenging the Council of States is the reason for the bill. Does the Council of State think that there has been a major problem in working life in recent years that older workers have not been allowed to reduce working time? Is that the motivation?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e220	The reason for the proposal is not that it can be demonstrated that older workers have had problems getting part-time if they wanted it. I have not registered any investigations in this way. What's important, and what's the strong signal of the pension reform, is that we want flexibility, that we want to gradually slow down from work, and that we define it as a good thing that older workers take advantage of their working capacity, even if it's not 100 pst. We believe it is very wrong that older workers have to justify the desire for part-time on health, social or other important welfare grounds - that is not necessary. It's enough to justify it from the age of 62, that you want a gradual degression and you have the right to part-time. That's why we want to expand the bill in the way we do now, not that we have so far some thorough studies that show that this has been very difficult for older workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e227	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 407]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e245	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and that it be allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e254	It is a pleasure for me, as the rapporteur-in-Office, to have the opinion of the Committee on the Law on the Management of Wild Marine Resources - the Marine Resource Act. At the committee reading, we have had a thorough and good process, and we agree on a large part of the vote. In a few areas, the opposition and the position are divided, which I will come back to. The legislative proposal now being promoted is largely based on the proposal of the Marine Resource Committee, which was appointed by the Bondevik II Government in 2003. The Sea Resource Act shall replace the Seawater Fishing Act. Section 7 of the Act continues the principle of the Saltwater Fishing Act that harvesting is permitted unless restrictions are laid down by law. At the same time, the law states that management has an obligation to assess the administrative measures necessary to ensure sustainable management. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, notes that the principle of governance implies a continuation and a strengthening of the progress made towards a more integrated administration. The majority sees that the administrative principle will lead to an increased need for knowledge and systematisation, and assumes that this will be achieved through future research efforts. The law states that the right to the resources lies with the community in Norway, to which the committee has joined. An overall committee, with the exception of the Advance Party, indicates that the precautionary principle should be one of the fundamental considerations for the management of wild marine resources. At the same time, a minority believe that it is important that the provision for administration applies to the whole country, so that there is no discrimination. An overall committee indicates that we do not have rules covering marine bio-prospecting and the exploitation of marine genetic resources in addition to the patent law, and therefore agrees with the proposal to introduce rules in this area. The Committee also agrees with the proposal for a basis for a share of the benefit of such dividends to be conferred on the State. However, the minority: the party of progress, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, believe that access must be used with caution, and only in cases where necessary. A majority, all except the Advancement Party, points out that there are only a few of the forms of life that exist along the Norwegian coast and in the northern seas, which have been explored and exploited in a nutritional context. The majority will therefore underline the importance of the follow-up by the Government to work on a strategy for the exploitation of marine genetic resources and the provisions of the Marine Resource Act. The majority have noticed that there is no international regime in this area, and the Government is asked to work for Norway to establish such a regime in line with the Sea Resource Act. The Committee agrees that the Board of Regulators should continue, and notes that the law mainly continues the current rules on the withdrawal of resources. The Committee has noted that in Ot.prp. No 20, on page 85, it says that ‘first row is a political task, and nothing to be regulated by the Maritime Resource Act’. On page 85, it also says: 'This allows you to change the'strength ratio' between the groups and to create new groups, very wide. ‘... The Committee points out that the fishing industry is dependent on nature and exposed to natural fluctuations. However, the Committee would stress the need for stability and the foreseeable framework of the fishing industry. Distribution between groups may lead to future allowance uncertainty. This applies to all ship groups. Therefore, the right is pleased that an overall committee underlines the need to maintain the allocation of allowances between the groups over time. This is necessary in order to ensure satisfactory conditions for fishing establishments in relation to loan institutions, the labour market and the investments to be made. I further point out that Section 11 provides the basis for determining national quotas, group quotas and district allowances. The minority, the Right, the Left, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party believe that today's district quota system should be abolished. These members refer to Innst. O. No 20 for 1988-1989, where it appeared that: ‘The Committee will clarify that it is normally not to be disposed of more than up to 5 pst. of the total quota for district allowances ’. Those members consider it subsidiary that such a restriction should continue to apply. These members assume that the power of attorney provided for in the fourth paragraph of Section 11 is exercised with great care. In Chapter 7, the Committee points out that the proposal for Section 15 introduces a general landing obligation for fish. The Committee points out that this will reduce the risk... [[The President clubs.]] [[The President clubs again.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e300	I'm sorry, the time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e303	Sorry, I had a lot more to say. I want to take up the suggestions from the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e310	The representative Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e313	Odelsting will today adopt a law that may become as important for future economic development as the law of the sea and of petroleum in its time. The new marine resource law, which now includes all wild marine organisms, determines that everything that lives in the sea is our common property, and that we are to have a sustainable and socially viable management of our marine resources and associated genetic material for all time. This means that the precautionary principle must be a fundamental consideration in the management of wild marine organisms. It also means that we are breaking down the administrative principle of the Sea Resource Act, which implies that the Department and the Fisheries Management have a duty to assess what administrative decisions are necessary to ensure the sustainable management of our marine resources. Bioprospection is, as the rapporteur mentioned, the purpose of the search for natural material in genetic material in order to test the properties of the material and exploit it commercially. This material can be used in several ways. Synthetics may be produced, new products based on the genetic material may be the starting point, or other organisms may be introduced to give these new properties. I really don't think it's possible for us today to understand the scope of the opportunities that exist in advanced biotechnology. Thus, the Sea Resource Act not only regulates coastal fishing and industrial activities but also regulates and manages new resources that are not previously covered by the Seawater Fishing Act. Only a few of the organisms found along our coast, and especially in the northern regions, have been explored for nutritional purposes. Many marine species are probably not yet described, and we have very close enough knowledge of the genetic and molecular properties of the different species. This is particularly true of what researchers call ‘cold-adapted organisms’. Perhaps the solution to the cancer can be found in this material, or new drugs can be found to treat a disease such as Alzheimer's. Over the next 20 years, the monitoring and exploitation of the biological material could become a significant growth area for Norwegian industry. Norway has special and natural advantages here, precisely because we have a long coastline bordering on subarctic and Arctic waters. Now the path from prospecting to commercial success can be quite long, but the possibilities of large economic gains are obviously also present. This means that everyone who is going to look for, research or exploit marine resources must be allowed to do so, because we want to control the search and take-off activity, precisely in order to ensure a proper take-off and to prevent damage to organisms or the vulnerable nature of the management, we want control of the species to be harvested, we want control of any commercial exploitation of the material, we want control of the developmental aspects of the exploitation of genetic material. All parties, except one, are further concerned that the Government is following up this work on a strategy for the exploitation of our marine genetic resources. We also believe that, on the Norwegian side, international agreements should be initiated to regulate the extraction of marine organisms in line with the important principles enshrined in the Marine Resource Act. The Sea Resource Act also regulates recreational fishing. This applies both to the use of gear and to fishing periods. Perhaps it is in this area that the law affects most people in this country. I briefly mention that there is now a limit to what can be called professional fishing, to what can be called recreational fishing, and the limit is set to the provisions of the VAT Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e345	Let me first start by thanking the case rapporteur for a good job in a big case. It has been demanding, but the result has been good. The rapporteur mentioned that there was a majority, all except the Progress Party, that would have a whole range of governance. Of course, the Progress Party will also have a complete administration. We've commented on that many times. As the Progress Party sees it, this law has a weakness. I guess it's pretty general. It is based on the fact that it is essentially a law of powers, and this means that the law becomes incomplete, it also leads to little predictability of the industry, and it gives a lot of power to bureaucracy. We think that is worrying. We want most of the law to be laid down in this room, because it means neat and clear relationships with those affected. The worst industry can experience is that the legislation is amended by a department without the necessary processes being carried out, in order to obtain unforeseeable competition and unforeseeableness. It is important to have equal governance, not to have specific rights for individual groups and actors. There are also things we have pointed out in the setting. We are also concerned about facilitating a very high level of access to change in the relationship between quota groups. We see it as a great and absolutely decisive advantage to have stability around these issues. Those involved in the industry, as well as those with capital, will then be given clear guidelines on future incomes. There is one point where the Party of Advances clearly differs from the other batches, and that is in the case of resource control. We've been worried about that for years. We've spent a lot of time on this speaker to tell you how important it is to have good resource control. You have to have a good national code, you have to work with international agreements, and then it's important to set up the resources that are necessary for the control to take place, that is. on the sea, and in particular in the Barents Sea. What concerns us in the Advance Party is the signals given by the Coast Guard that a reduction in the number of days of sailing is quite significant. We've written exactly about it in the setting. You go from more than 5,000 sailing days last year to approx. 4000 sailing days this year. We think that is worrying. The counter-arguments we have heard are that you sail more effectively. Well, there won't be more hours no matter how effective you sail. Going from 18 to 14 vessels is not exactly about strengthening control at sea. We think it's an unfortunate and wrong direction to go in. I have to say that I am quite disappointed with the other opposition parties, who do not want to prioritise the higher. When we also get signals that about 1000 flight hours can disappear due to this reduction, it doesn't make matters any better. For us, it is important to be out there where crime is committed, to use the Coast Guard as the important Coast Guard tool, to combat illegal fishing. There is also a security against those out on the sea, having the Coast Guard present. Finally, I would like to mention the proposal made by the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e364	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has drawn up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e367	In 1975, I took Artium and got 2 in the main Norwegian target. The task was about the resources in the sea. I was usually better than 2 in Norwegian, so I had to ask my teacher why in the world I just got 2 on the exam. Well, that's because I had only rewritten fish when I was writing about the resources in the ocean, and then I hadn't really answered the problem. Today, the Minister for Fisheries has written a task and presented it to the Stortinget Marine Resource Act. It is a very comprehensive and good law that is being presented. It doesn't deserve 2, it deserves 6, I think, in terms of both scope and content. There are several things I want to draw out. I believe that the representative of Gullvåg had a very good post, which I fully agree with. I also think that the rapporteur had a lot of good points of view. But let me draw out two-three relationships. The first thing is that the sea belongs to the community. It is important to state that we do not privatize the sea, which at all times - from the first human being who was in Norway, and for all future - will lie there and be of use, joy and income to people. Therefore, it is important that we maintain that the sea belongs to the community. We're going to reap it for the best of all. The second is that we should have some regulation in relation to the policy objectives that we want to achieve. This with district quotas is mentioned in the law. I think that's a very important point, because we know that the fish has been the most important cause of people living along our long-range coast over all years. The main reason people live from Varanger in the east to far down the coast is the fish. Then in the last few years, a number of other industries have come, but still there are a lot of communities, not least small communities, which depend entirely on getting out and fishing, and not least on the processing of fish on land. That is why we must have political opportunities to regulate this, so that the fish are landed, and that we actually get to fish where the need is greater in relation to housing and activity. Therefore, with regard to the point of district allowances, it is very important that we stick to the possibilities in it. The representative of Korsberg said he was disappointed that there was a lack of follow-up of resource control. I disagree. I think it's very clearly underlined in the law that you want strong resource control. We know that the resource we have has to be checked. We must have control of both our own fishermen and of those of the countries that fish in the same territory as we do. Therefore, SV will be very clear that we want both the Directorate of Fisheries and the Coast Guard to have a strong position in the future, so that we can get the necessary controls to avoid environmental crime, over-fishing or anything else that we do not want. Finally, I would like to point out that we in Norway have a few resources that are eternal. Oil and gas are not eternal. Mining is not eternal. But we have a few natural resources that are eternal. One of them is our hydropower. Another is the resources that we have in the ocean. I believe that this law means that we are doing well in caring for this eternal resource, so that it can be reaped in the future by all the inhabitants of this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e383	The Sea Resource Act is central to Norwegian fishing. I am therefore pleased that the Storting has been agreed on many points in the submission of the new law. As is well known, it is based on the Marine Resource Selection, which was created by the Bondevik II Government, and this is to replace the saltwater fishing law. The new Marine Resource Act shall ensure the sustainable and socially viable management of the wild marine resources and their genetic material, and contribute to securing employment and coastal settlement. All of this is very important. But there are also several basic elements of the law where there is a lack of consistency in the committee. First, I want to bring out the protection of the peace of the sun and the holy day. The Christian People's Party cannot see any reason to change today's home, i.e. the possibility of banning or restricting the home on Sundays and holidays, and we will vote against the proposal to lift this home. Christian People'spathy is thus the only party on the Stortinget that wants to pass on the possibility of sun and holy day peace at sea. I'm a little surprised that no other party has supported our proposal at this point. In the other parts where it is unsavory, the Christian People's Party is largely in conjunction with the rest of the opposition. My t.d. that a widespread use of powers legislation is unfortunate, as promises are made incomplete and unaccountable to the economic operators. The home to determine that part of the benefit of the exchange of marine bioprospection may be due to the state must be used with caution and only where it is absolutely necessary. The regulatory framework must not prevent the desired exploitation of marine resources. One of the pillars of the fisheries policy is that the allocation of quotas between the groups must be maintained over time, in order to ensure structural adjustment and long-term planning. It is very important to ensure quota stability and stable framework conditions for nutrition, and it is important that this is also reflected in the legislation in this area. This is necessary in order to ensure satisfactory conditions for fishing enterprises vis-à-vis loan institutions, in relation to employees and in relation to investments made. The Christian People's Party is saying that one should set a maximum allowable withdrawal, i.e. national quota. We also agree that a permit is given to determine the maximum allowable take-offs for each group of vessels or vessels or other defined group, i.e. the group quota. But the Christian People's Party believes that there should be no greater re-allocation between different groups than under today's legislation. In Section 11, third paragraph, there is an opportunity to set district quotas. Today's district quota system has not worked, and the Christian People's Party believes that it should be lifted. We refer to the committee's comment at Innst. O. No 20 for 1988-89 where it is said that it should not normally be set by more than 5 pst. of the total quota for district allowances. The Christian People's Party believes that such a restriction should still apply, and is critical that the Government adds to an extension of the district quota system. Paragraph 11, fourth paragraph, also provides for the power to determine that part of the national quota, or part of the group quota for one or more groups of vessels, is to be delivered to a specific use or condition. Increased regulation of this type could weaken the profitability of the Norwegian fishing industry and, in the long term, undermine fishermen’s jobs. The Christian People's Party has argued that power of attorney is being used with great caution. We have also noticed that the industry fears that situations may arise where it is natural to discard by-catches at the same time as landing obligations. The Christian People's Party argued that the regulation would be revised if it were to appear to be necessary for it. In the hearing process, the troll has been recorded in order to enter the fishing logbook where registration of catches is mandatory. The Christian People's Party believes that the keeping of a fishing diary in such cases appears to be unnecessary bureaucratic and should be a matter for the industry. We therefore propose, together with the Right and the Left, that the Government review the rules of the day when it applies to the fishing logbook, with a view to simplification. We're disappointed that we didn't get any connection from the government at this point. Finally, I will include the Christian People's Party's proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e411	The representative of Ingreigt S. Sørfonn has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e414	I would also like to thank the President-in-Office for his good work. Like several other speakers today, I would also like to begin by stressing the joy and importance of the fact that Odelstinget today adopts a new law on the management of wild marine resources, the Marine Resource Act, which replaces the law of 3 June 1983 No. 40 in the case of saltwater fishing, etc. The Saltwater Fisheries Act has been crucial for the management of fishing resources and the implementation of fisheries for about 25 years. The purpose of the new law is to ensure the sustainable and profitable management of all the wild marine resources, and not least the associated genetic resources in the sea. The fact that the genetic resources in the sea are now covered by legislation is an important innovation and means that a law is finally being passed which includes all the wild marine resources, both the traditional fishing resources and all the new exciting resources that we believe are available in the sea, which can provide the basis for new knowledge and new business activities in the future. The law is important for both industry and the environment. The legislative work and the legislative proposal are no less than a national new crime work, which follows important Norwegian international traditions - it preserves, as the representative Gullvåg said, the legacy of Jens Evensen - in order to ensure national sovereignty over our common marine resources. For us in the Center Party, it is important that the overall perspective is the management principle. We use a long-term, sustainable management of fishing resources, a reasonable extraction of resources, which will be the main basis for ensuring this important industry for Norway in the future. We are very concerned that we should adopt a long-term approach and take care of future fishing generations and coastal generations. We're concerned with stressing that these are eternal resources that depend on good governance. The legislative proposal combines nutrition and sustainable use. It is also expressed through the use of the word ‘harvesting of resources’, a central party formulation which is an important ideological foundation for both the agricultural industry and the fishing industry. The law covers all marine resources available on the Norwegian base. The reason for this is that future industries can also be found in an area that is still unexplored. It is important for us to look for new food routes, a new basis for activities even after the age of petroleum. Then it is not least important that we ensure and put in place a law that allows us to control this development. So Marin bio prospecting has not been regulated. In this respect, I would like to stress that it is important that the government fraction and the left in the position follow up what has previously been said about developing countries' rights and the ability to own their own marine resources. As I said, the law states that the marine resources belong to the community. They are in everyone's possession and not something that belongs only to individuals with enough funds. It is also important to stress that this is not a legal ownership of the country, but a determination that the resources belong to the population of Norway and will benefit the whole country. We in the Center Party are engaged in activity along the whole coast. We want to put the whole country into action, and we believe that the new law respects this intention. Many today - and especially from the opposition - mention the discussion of resource allocation, regulation, issues of redistribution between groups, district quotas versus by-catch. In this respect, I would like to stress that it is, and must be, political matters that must - and may have to - be discussed in this Chamber in the future as well. It would be a derailment to believe that fisheries policy should no longer be a policy. Finally, I would like to stress that resource control is essential. The fishing industry in Norway depends on a good reputation for further improving its value. Good management of resources is important. In this way, improving resource control is important in order to manage UUU fishing. In this context, it is essential to put in place traceability schemes to ensure the reputation and reputation of Norwegian fishing industries worldwide. The future consumers want to know that the seafood they buy is environmentally well and legally taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e440	I want to start by saying that the Left is pleased that there is so much consensus in the Business Committee on how we manage our marine resources. The Marine Resource Act is both a business law and an environmental law, which, for the Left, is a very important point if we are to be able to ensure a sustainable and socially viable management of the wild marine resources and the associated genetic material. The biggest change in this law is that the law now applies to all wild marine resources and related genetic material. The law shall also facilitate the regulation and management of new resources that have not been subject to the Saltwater Fishing Act. The resources shall be managed in a responsible manner, and we are required to set up a system to implement these obligations in national administration in the light of our obligations under international law. The new Marine Resource Act introduces the administrative principle on which the precautionary principle is to be one of the fundamental considerations on which the management of wild marine resources is to be based. Sustainable management is essential for the harvesting of marine resources, and the management principle must ensure this. The Left is pleased that the majority of the Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, considers it important and right that the management principle of the Marine Resource Act clearly states that the Ministry and the Fisheries Management have a duty to assess the administrative measures necessary to ensure the sustainable management of marine resources. Therefore, the management principle becomes an important tool in regulating resource extraction. The left-hand approach to resource take-off regulation has been to regulate the traditional fishing industry through quota provisions, so that long-term taxation is no greater than ecologically sustainable. It is important that the industry's quota stability and stable framework conditions are reflected in the legislation in this area. This is to ensure the industry a stable and predictable economy. In view of this, the Left is moving towards the Government's policy of authorising a part of the national quota or part of the group quota to be allocated to one or more groups of vessels for supply to farms in specific districts, better known as the district quota, as a district quota scheme leads to greater uncertainty as regards the income of fishermen. Norway, as a fishing nation, has great obligations both nationally and internationally to enforce the withdrawal legislation. Strict responses must be made to infringements and other forms of fraud involving allowances. This must be done by focusing on effective control, work on non-regulated fishing and landing obligations. A general landing obligation will reduce the risk that the catchment of fish is higher than the recorded one, but the Left will seek to establish an exemption from the landing obligation in close dialogue with the industry, so that one does not undermine the compliance of fishermen with the legislation. The same applies to the design of by-catch rules. The left considers that a system of administrative intervention is designed to establish legislation which is proportionate to the infringement and refers to proposals in the Committee's position on Ot.prp. No 20, where the Left, along with the rest of the opposition, asks the Government to ensure that there is an access to discretion when designing administrative withdrawal legislation. The Marine Resource Act is the beginning of a more comprehensive management of our marine resources, and the Left is pleased that the administration is moving in this direction. We are facing major challenges, but with an almost overall political consensus on how to manage marine resources, we have a good starting point. It is now up to us politicians to make sure that we take the necessary political steps to ensure the sustainable management of the resources provided by the sea. The left will highlight that the combined seafood industry is the best guarantee for living coastal environments.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e459	The Sea Resource Act shall replace the current Seawater Fishing Act. The aim of this Act is to ensure sustainable and socially viable resource management and to contribute to employment and settlement in coastal communities. In other words, it is both a business law and an environmental law, and the two things are perfectly natural. We now have a modern and simpler regulation for resource management. The law shall apply to the harvesting and other exploitation of all the wild marine resources and the associated genetic material. So this law will go beyond the Saltwater Fishing Act and will provide the basis for responsible, comprehensive resource management. Issues have been raised about the relationship between the Sea Resource Act and the forthcoming Nature Diversity Act. The ratio will be that the general management of wild marine resources will be based on the Sea Resource Act. In this way, the provisions of the Nature Diversity Act will complement the Marine Resource Act by assessments made by the authorities on harvesting under the Marine Resource Act. The rules on cross-sectoral protection, on the other hand, will be reflected in the Nature Diversity Act, including at sea. The two laws, the Sea Resource Act and the Nature Diversity Act, will thus function side by side, as has been done by the Seawater Fishing Act and the Nature Conservation Act. But both of the new laws bring progress and improvements, ensuring sustainable use and protection in a better way than the two old laws. In line with this, the proposed legislation also implements ecosystem-based management and ‘before var’ as important principles. We are therefore also introducing an administrative principle in the Marine Resource Act. It is a principle that requires authorities to regularly assess the types of management measures necessary to ensure sustainable management. Fishing will be allowed until regulation is introduced, but authorities are required to have a clearer obligation than at present to assess the status of the different populations. Those assessments may result in more than one fishing operation becoming a quota. It is important that the administration's obligation to make such assessments is made clear in the law. The legislative proposal states that wild marine resources lie within the community in Norway and are to be managed for the benefit of the community. Another important innovation of the bill is that it includes genetic material belonging to wild marine resources. The discovery and exploitation of genetic material can provide significant benefits based on resources belonging to the community. It is therefore very important that we now get a law that allows the state to secure compensation by using Norwegian marine genetic material. So it'll be a challenge to figure out how to set up such rules. In such work, it is important to identify a strategy for the exploitation of marine genetic resources that Norway is serving. As regards the resource control rules, they have been reviewed and modernised. A number of important rules have emerged, including: means of tracing, marking and receiving. Overall, the regulatory framework is strengthened in the fight against illegal fishing. The new Sea Resource Act will be a good and important tool in the exploitation of marine resources and to light up the ‘light in the house’. It will be a modern and up-to-date tool to consolidate our position as the world's best fisheries managers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e478	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e481	I could have started my line by talking about the Coast Guard and the resources, but I'm afraid the question will be the same as I've asked before, and the answer would probably be the same. So I'm not going to do that. I am going to assume that a minority in the Committee is concerned about the implementation of control tasks by public authorities. It is skeptical that monopolies such as fish sales laws are given to this authority, and several have pointed out the unfortunate thing about it at the hearings. We all know about the problem with the catch log, which works badly as a tool. Against this background, and with the resistance of the system of the fishing logbook, will the Council of State carry out a review of today's legislation on the fishing logbook with a view to simplification which is more appropriate for the industry as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e490	Firstly, this government has strengthened the allocations to the Coast Guard and also to the Directorate of Fisheries to carry out control activities, so there must not be a picture here of the failure of the Government in that area. Then, of course, it is an objective that both regulation and resource control should be as good and as effective as possible, and the sales laws have a very important role to play. If the tasks performed by the sales teams today on behalf of the community were to be carried out by e.g. The Fisheries Directorate, it would mean that we had to use significant public funds there. This is money that we can spend on today, for example. Coast Guard. So using the sales laws is efficient resource use, and I also perceive that it is a system that has legitimacy both in industry and along the coast. As far as the catch log is concerned, it is my opinion that we should stick to it. And then you have to keep looking at simplifications.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e499	The Committee comments on a wording on page 85 of the proposal, which states that the possibility of changing the relationship of strength between different groups is very broad. The Committee points to the importance of stability and predictability in the fishing industry and considers that it should be an objective for the industry itself to contribute to the agreed allocations between the groups. It is also written that the allocation of allowances between the groups must be maintained over time. Is the Council of State in agreement with the clear leadership given by the Committee here in relation to quota stability? And: does the Council of State understand why it is important to facilitate structural adjustment and long-term planning in the allocation of allowances?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e506	I am very concerned about ensuring predictability and stability for the fishing industry. That's also the line the Government has had throughout the period we've been in operation so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e511	The saltwater fishing law, as I mentioned in my post, had a secret to secure the peace of the sun and the holidays at sea, if necessary. This home is not passed on in the new law. My question is short and well then: Was it considered passing on this possibility in order to secure Sunday and weekend peace at sea, if necessary? If not evaluated, why was it not evaluated? I have read that in the saltwater fishing law this home is used little, but nevertheless, it gives a pretty strong signal if a person moves a home for something, even if he has been used little.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e519	Although this is not explicitly provided for in the new Maritime Resource Act, the Government continues to have the authority through the regulatory authority to determine both weekend peace and Easter stop. We can also go more concretely to work through regulation if you want to, and if so refuse not fishing on a particular species outside it and that church, if you think it is right. So the home and the authority we still have.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e524	Most people generally agree that there is a need for sanctions in the fisheries management to make it pay for fishermen to act in a lawful manner. The red-green lots write in a note on administrative intervention that the penalty in today’s legislation will be ‘relative to the infringement’. Obviously, government parties have little contact with industry and a very limited overview of how current legislation is actually being practised. In fact, if a fisherman accidentally exceeds the minimum fish volume limit, the whole catch shall be declared illegal. Here, small and totally innocent accidents could lead to the withdrawal of values that exceed most of the fines you will otherwise receive for criminal offences in this society. The fisherman writes on 25 February about how the fisherman Marvin Dragsnes gets the whole catch, worth more than DKK 100 000, because there was 330 kg of herring under minimum measures in a catch of 63 450 kg of herring. Does the Council not see that this sanctioning law may seem unreasonable?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e535	In general, I would say that through this law, we have decriminalized some minor offenses. One of the things you want to do is to: now use an infringement fee in cases that have previously been notified to the police and have been brought into the judicial system. I think that is a good arrangement both for resource control and for industry. With regard to the withdrawal of catches exceeding the quota or below the minimum, there is a withdrawal which occurs automatically without considering the issue of guilt. To set this up in the way proposed by the representative Torbjørn Hansen, I believe would lead to more bureaucracy and a more complicated regulatory framework around this. This may ultimately lead to a discount for fishermen to fish over the quota.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e544	During the hearings of this case, a sort of naud from the Fiskarlag found out that one had to see closer to the fishing logbook system. As produced in the hearings, the system is practiced in a reasonable bureaucratic and square way, where forgetfulness is simply criminalized. My question to the Council of State is: When you didn't choose to look all the way out of the fishing diary, why didn't you realize that you could make the practice more flexible and smooth? The way a catch diary practices it is clearly perceived as square and bureaucratic, and there is no sense of interest in how it works today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e551	First of all, I want to say that the catch log is a very important tool in resource control, so I am very much in order for us to keep it. With regard to the type of offences referred to by the representative here, it is precisely an area where the law allows the use of a criminal charge rather than a police report and any rounds of the judicial system, which we have seen in the past. This area is being simplified, and reporting can be done, among other things. are made electronically.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e558	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e563	Five minutes was very small, so I allowed myself to record the thread where I left off earlier. An overall committee indicates that the proposal for Section 15 introduces a general landing obligation for fish. The Committee assumes that an exemption regulation will be in place at the date of entry into force of the Act and that it will be established in dialogue with the industry. An overall committee also considers it important to create sufficient predictability of the industry in the formulation of by-catch rules and to take into account the practical feasibility of the exercise of natural fishing. At the same time, the Committee recognises that in some cases it may be necessary to prohibit all by-catches due to the stock situation. Such rules must therefore be designed in close dialogue with business organisations. The minority of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, indicate that the system of administrative withdrawal is continued and that no requirement is imposed for subjective guilt. These members consider that there may be good reasons for such a rule, but that it should not be such that the withdrawal is disproportionate. In particular, it is of concern that relatively small exceedances of the minimum measure may result in the withdrawal of the entire catch. It is necessary to improve the coherence between the seriousness of the infringement and the level of the penalty. In this context, these members promote the following proposals: ‘The decision asks the Government to provide for the possibility of using discretion in the decision on the extent of the withdrawal in the case of catches in breach of the minimum targets, so that full withdrawal is not used where this appears unreasonable in the circumstances. ‘... In Chapter 8, an overall committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, demonstrates that the law strengthens the rules on the organisation and implementation of resource control. The majority assume that wild marine resources are renewable but not inexhaustible. The majority agree that new and strengthened rules are necessary both in relation to national resource control and in order to combat illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing activities. The majority assume that the control measures of the law are proportionate to the infringements to be investigated and that general principles of legal certainty are followed. The entry of the fishing logbook in cases where registration of catches is compulsory appears to be unnecessary bureaucratic. The members of the Progressive Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left therefore promote the following proposals: ‘The Government is asked to carry out a review of today’s rules on the fishing logbook with a view to simplification. ‘... The Committee also points to the imposition of a periodic penalty payment and to the continuation of the authorisation for the imposition of a criminal charge. The Committee is required to provide clear guidance on the types of penalties to be applied in individual cases. The minority, the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, believe that the Government opens up a difficult time to change the power relationship between the groups...
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e586	The President would like to remind you that the President-in-Office can receive as many three-minute posts as she wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e589	Since the question of the use of discretion in the administrative withdrawal of the catch came up again, I would like to make some clarifications in relation to this. The system of administrative withdrawal of catches is not a penalty or a criminal reaction. Fishing which a fisherman has fished contrary to the legislation does not require him to retain. Such capture is thus withdrawn on an objective basis, without any assessment of guilt or other factors. This is a fundamental part of the Norwegian regulatory system. It does so, among other things. the possibility of having a landing obligation also for illegally caught fish. The fish is being landed. It is recorded and exploited, while the fisherman does not receive the benefit from the fishing in breach of or in compliance with the law. As long as the withdrawal is limited to that part of the catch which is illegal, the withdrawal will also be proportionate to the infringement. The introduction of discretionary powers for the administrative withdrawal of catches may conflict with the basic idea that the fisherman will not benefit from the illegal action and may therefore represent a challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e598	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox Berit Brørby resumed his office here. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e610	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e645	The party of progress, the Right and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e658	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Progress Party, the Right and the Left will also vote against this. - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e672	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e680	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve on behalf of the Advance Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 3, by Mr Korsberg, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, proposal No. 4, from Ingreigt S. Sørfonn on behalf of the Christian People's Party Proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the right, from the Christian Party, and from the left, says: ‘The decision asks the Government to provide for the possibility of using discretion in the decision on the extent of the withdrawal in the case of catches in breach of the minimum targets, so that full withdrawal is not used where this appears unreasonable in the circumstances. ‘... Proposal No. 2, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left, says: ‘The Government is asked to carry out a review of today’s rules on the fishing logbook with a view to simplification. ‘... Proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, says: ‘The decision asks the Government to stop the construction of the Coast Guard. ‘... These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure. The President will begin by voting on proposal No. 4, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e1831	It is first referred to the third paragraph of Section 11 of Chapter 3, Catch and quotas. The party of progress, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it. The remainder of Chapter 3 and all the other chapters of the Committee's configuration shall then be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e1852	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e1862	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28-lower.ana.ud1221e1937	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
