ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e43	The representative Hallgeir H. Langeland, who has been on leave, has once again taken up his seat. The former deputy representative of the Eastfold County, Per Egil Evensen, has again taken up his seat. Four permit applications are available: from the Røjres Storingsgruppe on health leave for the representative Gunnar Gunnar Gundersen from 10 June onwards and until further notice from the Central Party Group on sick leave for the representative Inger S. Enger from 10 June onwards and until further notice from the Workers' Group on sick leave for the representative Torfinn Opheim from 10 June onwards and until further notice from the Left Group on welfare leave for the representative Borghild Tenden from 11 June until 16 June; The President proposes that these applications be examined immediately and accepted - and considered adopted. From the first alternate from Hedmark County, Pernille With Egeberg, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget under the authority of the representative Gunnar Gundersen due to illness. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For Akershus County: Inge Hallgeir SolliFor Hedmark County: Wenche I. S. HighFor Uppland County: Johannes RindalFor Rogaland County: Unn Therese O. SørensenWenche I. S. Høje and Johannes Rindal are elected to the Lamentations for the time they meet the representatives of Gunnar Gundersen and Inger S. Enger respectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e117	Wish I. S. High and John Rindal are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e131	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3627]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e147	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3627]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e163	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e172	Today we are working on a proposal for a representative on energy saving in households and commercial buildings. The theme of this debate is important, not least with the climate debate as a backbone and with the international climate panel stressing the importance of precisely improving energy efficiency in order to achieve the target of climate change reduction and to gain control of the global temperature increase. There is a high potential for energy saving in buildings, energy efficiency lighting and low energy consumption for electrical appliances. It is therefore not difficult for the majority of the committees to be merged in the intentions behind it to be submitted to the proposers. The government also has a strong commitment in this area, not least it is important to achieve the 30 TWh renewable electricity production and energy efficiency target by 2016. When it comes to building energy saving, there is a broad political plurality behind the measures highlighted in the climate agreement, the active use of Enova to ensure building energy saving and the frequent revision of technical regulations and the low-energy programme, with a view to continuous improvement in this area. The policies in these areas must be careful, in that we implement them notifying changes and clearly signaling that the subject area will be even more focused in the future. In this way, we might stimulate someone to choose more environmentally friendly solutions than those that are strictly controlled by regulations, and thus may be in the forefront of development. The Committee further points out that there is a high savings potential in light sources and that one can achieve much through an effective management system in this area. There is also a lot of good work going on around the country. Then it is that the EEA Agreement also restricts somewhat in this area the national space for action. I am not going to use this post to remind the Christian People's Party of who secured a plurality for the EEA Agreement and who voted against it. Instead, I would like to refer to the Government's active European policy and stress that we must at least use the powers we have to work within the EU and EEA systems to ensure the most effective transition to more efficient light sources. The last moment suggested by the proposers is the relationship to electrical devices that have standby mode and thus use power without being present. There is no doubt that there is a large savings potential in reducing the time when electrical devices are in standby mode. The Committee supports the work done by the Government through the EU system to reduce the power consumption of these devices when in standby mode and to make it easier for the consumer to choose a product with low standby consumption. However, a ban on standby mode products will, after the majority view, be too far. Today, the Christian People's Party proposes a ban on the vast majority of televisions, stereos, DVD players, TV games and a number of other devices on the market today. It's pretty radical. Finally, although neither the plural nor the centre party can support the proposals on bans, the representative proposal is an important reminder and an important support for the efforts of the government to reduce unnecessary energy consumption. Better energy consumption, as well as renewable energy production, is one of the most important climate measures we have. As the Council of State often reminds us, the most environmentally friendly kilowatt hour is the one that is not being used.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e193	I can unreservedly join the rapporteur who has just said about this matter and these proposals. However, I would like to underline what the rapporteur started with, which is, to a large extent, also implicit in the wishes of the proposers, and it is that energy efficiency improvement will undoubtedly be one of the most important means of reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the near future. In many ways we have been lucky here in Norway, which has had access to both reasonable and good electricity. It's made us less aware of what we've used the electricity for, and how we use it. If the path to more energy efficiency is going through legal bans, as the proposers want, I am very uncertain about. The surest and perhaps most important potential lies in changing people's behaviour patterns and attitudes towards energy use. Most of us have in recent years become considerably more concerned with using energy correctly and avoiding unnecessary use of energy. There is still a significant potential in this area. Much has recently been done in view of increased and better use of energy and electricity. We are now betting on more energy-efficient construction. We are making more stringent energy requirements for appliances. We have strengthened Enova's instrumentation, and through their programmes they have focused to a large extent on energy efficiency improvement. There is a need to ask questions about the ways in which energy-efficient solutions and changing patterns of behaviour are likely to trigger the great potential. The prohibition of law in some areas, as the Christian People's Party is alone to propose, is undoubtedly a controversial and, as the case-law rapporteur said, a radical way to go. I think it is important to substantiate the work already done by the Government. It makes good arrangements for good energy use. It's about motivation, about awareness. It is announced that one of the energy messages will come back to this in a larger whole. That's what's important in this context. Other major energy efficiency improvement measures include line networks, old construction, upgrading and expansion of hydropower generation. Everything is related to everything, and we'll get back to that. But to take out individual areas and introduce a ban we think is the wrong way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e202	This is a case where I think everyone initially agrees on good goals. Maybe we sometimes have a little disagreement about the instruments, but as the setting shows, there's really little disagreement about that as well. But to problem a little bit, it's important to use energy as efficiently as possible, we agree. However, when we experience in some cases that the objective of passive houses, mentioned in the setting, conflicts with district heating, we have seen a little too many examples that it is the district heating that wins. It does not seem entirely logical for a then to be forced to connect a district heating network, given that a passive house wants to reduce energy use and make it as low as possible depending on heating. Many could say that this must be decided by the municipalities themselves; it is not the State and the national authorities that decide it. But what you hear from people in the municipalities is that it's a national goal to build district heating, and they're trying to follow up as best they can. Then there is a conflict between the objectives that I would like the Government to have been a little clearer on the outside, so that not a lot of municipalities - like, for example. Trondheim with Rosenborg Park - ends up scrapping projects with passive houses because one would rather expand its district heating. We need to be able to distinguish between what is involved in energy efficiency improvement - using energy more efficiently and thus reducing energy consumption in total - and what is involved in energy conversion. The district heating represents the last, but there is a total increase in actual energy consumption compared to what one could have done. In the setting, two-way communication is mentioned. I think everyone's behind it too, and I think most people are impatient. But the important thing is that we do this in a sensible way, so that we do not drive the costs for consumers up the roof, and that we introduce two-way communications when it is natural to upgrade the facilities that exist. The cost has been significantly reduced in recent years, making this more topical today than it was five to ten years ago when we discussed this last time. But it should be done in a cost-effective way. The same applies to lighting. Of course, much can be done. But it costs to replace the apparatus, it costs to replace the bulbs, and therefore a focus should be on starting it when one raises and upgrades the house, and not force it through as quickly as possible no matter what kind of device you have from before. What you might want to focus more on is the potential that lies in the street lighting. It's probably not revolutionary that the Progress Party says it, I think everyone's thinking about it. There is a potential that the authorities themselves have very much control over, where there is a lot of energy used, and where the heat loss from bulbs has no positive side effect whatsoever. There's a lot to pick up. I think at the same time, when you're talking about standby functions that many people like to go to battle with, that you're going to distinguish whether this is about pro-miles of power consumption, or whether it's percent. I think it's promiles, and I think we should be careful about exaggerating the potential that's there, even though it's okay that everyone has a conscious attitude about the energy you have. When you look at what Enova has estimated, you're talking about some hundred GWh, you're not talking about a lot of TWh. The last thing I want to address is the importance of a long-term approach in this matter, as in all other energy policy issues. Going out with short-term action towards consumers and thinking that now everyone is going to change attitudes, everything is revolutionizing and getting so much better, I don't think it works. One must have long-term measures on the part of authorities, preferably in the form of tax incentives and in the form of depreciation incentives. When talking about energy efficiency improvement, power management systems are a good measure, and that is, of course, in Enova’s action plan today. What's important, and as you're starting to get in the direction of, is that you have a long-term view of this, that you don't get a three-month effort before every dreaded power crisis. The long-term measures should also apply to other Enova instruments. I would have preferred that the government, instead of making appropriations for the state budget, consider an opportunity to reduce the tax rates, give people the opportunity to write off such investments on the tax bill and improve depreciation rates for business. That is exactly what the proposal from the Progress Party is for consideration in the Financial Committee. I hope and believe that the Council of State also takes a positive view of such an approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e223	Unfortunately, despite the fact that we have a lot of issues about these kinds of issues for consideration both in committee and in plenary, progress shows that the results are waiting. We see that the consumption of energy in Norway unfortunately goes the wrong way, it goes up sharply. CO2 emissions are rising sharply in Norway, while the production of new renewable energy that could compensate for a little of the negative trends is waiting. It also means that we have a society where we become more and more dependent on fossil fuels in terms of both today's consumption and the consumption we see in the future in the short term. We actually have to do something about this. At least when the results are waiting, it cannot be established that the small campaigns that have been launched in the country to reverse consumption, consumption, have produced some sort of results, rather the opposite. I believe that there is a strong need for a review of both the tasks that Enova has been assigned to perform on behalf of the big society, and also of the measures that the Storing has adopted. With the deplorable development we have had so far in relation to our objective through the climate agreement of having up to 30 TWh new renewable energy by 2016, I think we can today ask ourselves the question: Is it at all possible to achieve these goals, when we are almost unable to get out of the starting block of our policies and ambition, and get visible results in place? Unfortunately, to comment on the proposal of the Christian People's Party, all energy production has environmental consequences. We all know that fossil energy causes greenhouse gas emissions, nuclear power causes storage problems with regard to very dangerous non-degradable waste, hydropower deployment means natural interference, wind power expansion leads to visual impressions along the coast, etc. Therefore, the only ‘energy production’ that does not produce negative environmental impacts is actually the energy we save, and therefore it is very important that we move from a talking stage to an action stage. For example, we need to implement new technologies that can contribute to energy saving. We lack measures like two-way communication. Bi-directional communication is an action that helps to make individuals more aware of their own power consumption, while at the same time having an important function in terms of making the market function more efficient. We need to move much faster towards the goal of getting a branding system in place that is informative to the consumer, especially in the case of white goods. If Norway, when implementing the EU renewable directive, is to follow developments and achieve such ambitious targets as our neighbouring countries have set themselves, we must also increase the renewable share of energy consumption in Norway, from 62 pst. to 76 pst. It sounds almost unattainable, so it's important that we take seriously the situation we're in. Unfortunately, it does not go forward, it goes backwards, in that consumption is increasing almost uncontrolled in Norway. That is why we must move forward in an action phase. Today's government must soon begin to discover that you are in government three out of four, and you have a short time to get into an action phase. Finally, I address the proposal that is referred to in the position that we stand with the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e241	The representative Ivar Kristiansen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e244	Since the red-green government joined in 2005, there has been a lot of talk about the importance of renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement. The government has launched the 30 TWh renewable energy production and energy efficiency improvement target by 2016. This is an ambitious and demanding objective. The way in which the government parties act on the matter we are discussing today demonstrates once again that it is far from word to action for this government. The representative Sande says this is an important debate. The representative of Aasland says that energy efficiency improvement ‘desperate’ will be an important contribution. But it stays with words and little action. 10-15 pst. the electricity consumption of Norwegian households and commercial buildings is used for lighting purposes. 5 pst. the power consumption goes to electrical appliances in standby mode. In the report ‘Energy Decommissioning in Construction – Norway’s largest power plant’, the Norwegian Nature Conservation Association has estimated that it is possible to save 15 TWh in Norwegian buildings by 2020. This requires the implementation of a number of small and large-scale measures. The bulb transforms 95 pst. of the energy it uses, for heat and only 5 pst. to light. The bulb can be easily replaced by spare bulbs or LED bulbs, which give the same amount of light, but use 80 pst. less current and lasts 10 to 50 times longer. In recent years, the number of standby-mode appliances has increased dramatically. Flat screens and coffee funnels are produced today without a power cut and draw as long as the apparatus is connected to the mains power source. However, it is not correct, as the representative Sande points out, that there are no flat screens and coffee funnels that have a push-off and push-off button. It exists. It's about being conscious as a consumer when you're going to act. The phasing out of bulbs and the reduction of standby consumption are two relatively simple grips that can help to achieve the Government's ambitious objective. I think this is a kind of measure that Børge Burnde would have called low-hanging fruits. However, the government would rather focus on uncontroversial measures that take effect in 10-15 years, long after their own government period is over. State Council Åslaug Haga, through her response to the Storting in this matter, has made it clear that she is leaning on the EU in the further work on energy efficiency improvement and energy release. In a letter to the Committee, the Council of State argues against the introduction of its own national standards and energy requirements, as this could, in exceptional cases, conflict with the EEA Regulation. I share the positive views of the Council of States on the EU's ongoing work and energy efficiency improvement objectives. However, when central EU countries such as Italy, Germany, the Netherlands, Ireland and Belgium have adopted or expressed their wish to introduce a ban on bulbs, I find it strange that Norway cannot do the same. One of the central party's crown arguments against EU membership is, of course, the possibility of taking the lead and pursuing an independent policy - an argument that I personally share. That is why I am disappointed that we have a government that, on a case-by-case basis, uses the EU as an argument for not adopting a more offensive national policy. Nor are these new ideas promoted by the Christian People’s Party today. The representative of the Central Party, Ola Borten Moe, promoted on 13 May last, together with Heidi Sørensen, a similar proposal to ban ordinary bulbs by 2012. This was to be one of several measures in the climate communication, we could read in Dagbladet. State Secretary Guri Størvold of the Ministry of Oil and Energy stated on 15 March this year to the VG that the Government will impose strict requirements for energy efficiency improvement in light bulbs, which would in practice involve phasing out the bulbs in a few years. Unfortunately, when the proposals are under discussion in the Grand Duchy, the government parties are voting against these proposals. Finally, I would like to say that the Christian People's Party is addressing the environmental problems arising from the increased use of mercury-containing bulbs and fluorescent lamps. In the context of the possible phase-out of bulbs of filament, a better return system will be needed. All retailers are already obliged to accept EE waste free of charge by means of the waste regulation. However, it is easy to see that the dealers practice this somewhat differently today. That is why the Left, Right and Christian People's Party is promoting a proposal on this. I then take up the proposal of the Christian People's Party and the proposal that we have with the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e267	The representative Line Henriette Holten Heimdal has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e270	Energy efficiency improvement is an important part of energy policy, and it is an important part of climate policy. In this area, there are considerable opportunities to which too little attention has been paid so far. It is an area that is undervalued by politicians, and it is an area that is undervalued by consumers. We know that there will be higher electricity prices in Norway in the coming years, as a result of the integration we have in the North European power market. But it's not given that people are going to get a higher power bill as a result of it. Because there are ways to make consumption more efficient, so that you can get out of it just as well, or better, even if the power prices go up. This potential needs to be made visible, both because one can save money and because one can save energy. What is so obvious in this area is that much can be done with little effort. In many ways, it's actually enough just to use your head -- be a conscious consumer. We also know, and the examples are many, that a lot can be picked up with small measures that cost little to implement. There are also larger investments that can be made and that can be profitable in a short time. In view of this potential, we launched the proposal to establish a system of energy checks on the individual dwelling. In an interaction between authorities and consumers, it is important to make visible and trigger the potential that exists, because it is also effective in a wider energy perspective. In the context of the climate agreement, we have seen that there will be a significant increase in the focus on information, both on climate challenges and on what can be done to solve them. I welcome the fact that the Council of State acknowledges that this work is in progress. At all events, I am strongly attached to conscious consumers who use their consumer power, and then it is important that they have information, and that they have labelling schemes that enable this. I am also concerned that a commitment is being made to energy-efficient products, and I believe that this is what the proposers want to do primarily, namely to put the spotlight on an area where there are better alternatives in an environmental perspective than those that the majority are using today. But it would probably have been constructive to raise this in a broader perspective, and I expect a broader review when the government presents its energy message. Left is in favour of phasing out inefficient light sources, of more stringent energy requirements related to light sources and of a pledge scheme for mercury-containing savings bulbs and fluorescent tubes. We're not going into the ban line here, but we're pointing out that ban is one of several possible instruments. It may well be that one should bet on the others referred to in the proposal as a starting point. That is also our conclusion on the standby proposal, where we do not support the ban. But I am very concerned that the problem raised by the proposers is underlined. There is a high potential for individual consumers and for saving energy in large quantities. There is evidence that one can save several hundred kroner by taking a different attitude to the standby button on one single household product. It is not very good for people not to exploit that potential, and on the other hand, the price fluctuations on electricity in some winter weeks, when they have opportunities, which are not used, to save more than what they are charged in extra costs. It's important, even in the case of electrical appliances, to see this in a larger perspective. I am strongly in favour of an international cooperation that facilitates more ambitious standards for these products. Finally, I would just like to refer to an example of small measures that can have great effect: the replacement of PCB-containing capacitors in luminaires. It's about 4.4 million units that can be replaced. In total, it had given a saving in energy of 600-700 GWh. There is more than Alta development, so no one should come and say that small measures do not have a significant impact in total.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e291	There are important issues raised by the representatives of the Christian People's Party in the Document No. The 8-proposal we are now considering. Energy saving is high on the agenda in the department, because the kilowatts that are not used are the most environmentally friendly. There are many possibilities for energy saving - in households, in construction and in transport. In order to exploit the opportunities, we need to invest in many areas, we need to develop new products, and the information for users needs to be improved. We need to develop legislation and regulations, and we need to have good grant schemes. It's working in all of these areas. When we work with standards for energy use, we need to have the background that we are talking about products that are international merchandise with strong competition. Then there are good reasons to be coordinated with developments in other countries. If we introduce national standards that go beyond EU standards, we may be confronted with a breach of the provisions on the free movement of goods under the EEA Agreement. That is why I am also pleased that extensive processes are in progress internationally, leading to increasingly stringent requirements for energy efficiency and ecodesign of many types of products. At European level, this has a great deal of attention, and there are now several directives setting standard requirements for electrical appliances. Norway has implemented a number of such directives. Lighting and standby consumption are now priority areas, including for the EU. Norway is actively working towards EU energy standards. It is important to limit energy consumption to lighting, as suggested by the proposers. About 10 pst. of the total energy consumption of Norwegian households is used for lighting and savings are high. The EU now assesses different phase-out scenarios for filament lamps. We actively participate in the forums where this is discussed. The EU makes thorough assessments of the environmental, market and energy impacts in order to achieve a successful phase-out. An important point of a strategy for the phasing out of bulbs is the setting up of good return arrangements to avoid the emission of pollutants. My starting point is clear: glow bulbs are to be phased out of the Norwegian market and a comprehensive strategy for phasing out - well and mark a strategy that is adapted to Norwegian conditions and where we need to take account of developments in the EU. In addition to using standards and labelling schemes, we work through Enova. Energy-efficient and environmentally sound solutions shall be available and used by both private and public actors. All Enova’s programmes could contribute to the long-term development of the market, both in terms of energy efficiency and renewable energy. Let me stress that there is a lot of positive happening in this area, not least in terms of industry. One of the areas where Enova has the best results is energy efficiency improvement for industry. We're talking about a result target of - if I don't remember faults - 2.7 TWh, that is very comprehensive. The Norwegian industry welcomes the measure in all its contexts, and Enova is very clear that this is one of the areas where you can see the greatest potential in the future. But then it's very true, as the representative Kvassheim said, that we need to work with information for consumers. We need conscious consumers, and that's why what Enova recommends is so important. As of today, this branding includes low-energy windows, and we are now systematically bringing more products into this. Let me also say that Enova is working specifically for energy-efficient lighting. They want, among other things: help us in the process of phasing out the bulbs. In the case of standby consumption, the consumption pattern is of great importance. This consumption can be eliminated if all appliances are completely switched off when not in use. The number of electrical appliances with standby consumption has increased significantly in Norway in recent years. We know that it's still going to increase, everything indicates it. Therefore, a careful and sound regulation of this energy consumption is necessary. As a separate initiative in Norway, we will assess the labelling of products so that consumers can choose more easily products with low standby consumption. We have good experience with this type of labelling scheme, not least from the white goods sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e318	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e321	This case bears the mark that everyone wants in the same direction, but that someone likes to exaggerate the potential and possibilities a little more than others. We have heard of an increase in measures for many decades on Stortinget. Then it's important to get perspective. In this debate we have heard that 5 pst. energy consumption in households and industry is standby consumption. That's approximately equal to that. 4 TWh. Enova recommends that you put a decimal in front of that number. We have heard that one can save several hundred kroner on just one electric appliance by turning off the standby button. At 50 cents per cent. kWh means that one can at least use 200 kWh on one appliance. It's equivalent to a user 25 watts on a standby function. There are no new devices where an advertiser uses 25 watts in standby mode. They are advertised as using less than 1 watt. Either one has to take the companies for false marketing, or a few have to get the debate on the right track. For this reason, I would like to ask: Will the Council of States take the initiative to try to quantifyincreased action in these possible areas in its energy communication?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e328	In Norway, we do not have statistics for the purpose of distribution of electricity consumption. Any calculation or assumption of the proportion used for different purposes would therefore be uncertain. This is a challenge for us. For standby consumption in Norway, Enova has estimated it to be about 400 GWh. I'm not able to challenge that number. But I think the representative has an important point: we need to have better knowledge, better understanding. When we're going to work systematically with energy savings, it's important that we work in those areas where we have the greatest opportunity to bring down most of the TWh quickly. There's the industry that's pointing out, and there's the building mass that's pointing out. But the fact that we're going to work systematically against these large areas does not mean that we should not, at the same time, take wise action against the smaller consumer market.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e335	Unfortunately, we are moving away in a negative direction from our Kyoto targets. New renewable energy production is small in Norway. Our CO2 emissions are increasing sharply in Norway. Energy consumption is also increasing sharply in Norway. In today's debate, the Council of State states that energy saving is high on the agenda of the department. With the rug to which I have referred, is there anything at all that suggests that energy saving is on the agenda of the Oil and Energy Ministry?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e345	I can assure the representative of Kristiansen that we have energy efficiency improvement high on our agenda. This was among other things: The Energy Council's theme not many days ago, where we agreed with the Energy Council that one of the important inputs they are going to give to the Energy Communication is precisely in this area. Then we will ensure that we have a comprehensive plan that embraces the entire spectrum, which the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen was concerned with, from industry and the heavy measures and up to the small possibilities that we have with ordinary consumers. Yes, we have a lot of attention on this. I'm going to repeat as long as I have the opportunity to stand in this room, that the most environmentally friendly TWh we have, is the one that's not consumed. There I'm going to make sure that we do an important work in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e350	The council repeats that the most environmentally friendly kilowatt hour is the one that is not used, and we very much agree with that. It is perhaps also the easiest to get hold of, because it is difficult to start new renewable energy production with that support system and also a little bit of its public system that we currently have. That's a shame. That's why it's important that we stimulate the use of energy to make sense, and that we use as little as possible. The Council of State says: ‘My starting point is clear: glow bulbs are to be phased out.’ It also takes into account a process in the EU in its contribution. My question will then be, When will the Council of State be able to achieve its goal?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e357	We see good progress in these processes in the EU, both in terms of more energy-efficient lighting, and in terms of products with standby functions. I cannot guarantee exactly when the processes in the EU are completed. What I am going to promise is that, in parallel with developments in the European Union, we are going to look at how we can create a plan to phase out bulbs in Norway, because we have a slightly different consumption pattern in the EU and in Norway. We have to make sure that we follow the same path, because if we set different requirements for the products, we get into conflict. It's e.g. to phase out pears with high strength faster in Norway than in Norway, for example. do so in the EU, but we depend on us to follow the same route, otherwise we will be in conflict with the EEA Agreement. I'll do what I can to get these processes on the rails as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e362	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e365	After hearing the statements of the Council of State and also the change of lines with me, the Left and Christian People's Party perceive that the Council of State agrees with the intentions contained in proposal No. 2 on the phasing out of inefficient bulbs. This applies to bulbs in this case. So we're going to re-appropriate proposal No. 2 to a transmission proposal. For the Christian People's Party and the Left, it is important that we find agreement and find measures that will speed this up. So, with the Council's response that she also wants to make a plan for a phase-out, we're making this proposal as a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e372	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3627]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e388	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e395	Today, we are considering representatives from Robert Eriksson, Arne Sortevik, Karin S. Woldseth and Kari Kjønaas Kjos to ensure that after the bombing of Laksevåg and Holen School, their applications for a war pension are reviewed. The reason for the proposal is that on October 4, 1944, Laksevåg municipality and Holen school outside Bergen were bombed by allied aircraft. Many, both children and adults, were killed or injured. 193 people died that day, and the material damage was enormous. Some suffered injuries that only recently, in old age, have become clearer and contribute to making retirement life difficult, both health and economic. In the book "We got up again" - a 60th anniversary of October 4, 1944 - the president of the Memorial Association of October 4, 1944, Nils Lexander, states the following: «Aside from the municipalities of Finnmark, Laksevåg was the most war-torn municipality in the country.» When the allied invasion of France came on June 6, 1944, the Germans had to escape French ports and move their submarines to ports in other countries. Most were located in Norway. ==References== 100 submarines came to the Bergen region during the summer and the autumn according to the book «We got up again». A good justification has been given in the presentation of the draft representative. In addition, reference is made to the deaths at Holen School of 61 children, 2 teachers, the janitor and 16 civil protection emergency workers. 36 people were killed at Kleivdals Lærfabrik and 11 at Bernt Iversen & Son. This is well established in the reasons for the matter, which we have discussed in the Committee. It was time for this matter to be resolved. It's taken time. The left is pleased that after the bombing of Laksevåg and Holen School, the victims now have a new assessment of receiving a war pension. The size has adopted several different compensation schemes in the context of the Second World War. However, later on it has been shown that the treatment of several victims has not been good enough and that the reports and assessments that have been used in the past have not taken sufficient account of children’s post-war trauma experiences. The left is therefore satisfied that the victims are now re-assessed in NAV and assumes that this can be done as quickly as possible in view of some of the victims’ age. It seems important to highlight the considerable efforts of the Holen School and Rolf Andersen Memory Association over many years to document the physical and mental suffering and sensitivities of the victims as a result of the experiences. There's been meetings with the committee, and it's made a movie. Without this effort, we, as politicians, had not been aware of the extent of sensory injuries and experiences to which these have been subjected. Fortunately, in our country we have been proud of war on our own territory for the past 60 years. We're used to living peacefully within our own country's borders, which is far from being a matter of course elsewhere in the world. The bombing in Bergen and the experiences that people have had in Finnmark and North Troms, it's important that some people document and keep talking about. As I said, we are pleased that the case to the victims after the bombing of Laksevåg and Holen School now has a solution. But there are several other groups that should have their cases evaluated, and we now assume that the cave dwellers and the forced deportees in Finnmark and Nord-Troms get their cases re-established on the same principle of presumption where the war impact fills the stress criteria for post-traumatic stress. That is why we have also put forward a proposal to investigate a cheap substitute scheme in some form of the cave dwellers and the forced deportees in Finnmark and Nord-Troms. And we ask the government to come back to the Storting for this in an appropriate way. The left believes that it would now be wise to finish all the replacements that have to do with the war. The left considers that, as a general rule, there should be a high threshold for the use of an adapted cheap substitute scheme. Having experienced war can't in itself be enough reason to get cheap compensation, but there are still groups who have had war experiences and who should have received an assessment of a compensation scheme. The size has adopted several different compensation schemes in connection with the Second World War, including: to Japanese prisoners. A number of Norwegian seafarers were held captive in Africa during World War II. During the summer of 1940, 26 Norwegian ships were detained in French colonies. Over 700 Northmen were interned on board ships or put in prisons and prison camps far inside the desert. This is one of several issues that has not received so much attention, and the victims have not received any kind of compensation from the Norwegian State for their significant efforts for Norway during the second world war. For many, it became almost two and a half years long captivity. We do not see that there are fundamental differences in the Nordics who were in Japanese captivity and captivity in African countries, and we therefore consider it reasonable to establish a compensation scheme for African prisoners. With this I take up the minority proposal from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e428	The representative André N. Skelstad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e431	At 9:05 p.m. on October 4, 1944, the air - protection sirens went to Laksevåg, and a massive bomb attack on the German submarine bunker was under way. 152 allied bombers dropped their deadly cargo-- 1,432 bombs--from high altitude, and in a few minutes Laksevåg was transformed into an inferno of explosions, fire and smoke. When the attack was over, it was found that the submarine bunker was virtually unharmed, while the community around was heavily hit by the Allied bombs. At Holen School, 61 children, 2 teachers, the janitor and 16 civil protection assistants died. In total, 193 people lost their lives that day, at school, in jobs and in their homes. For us who grew up in the Norway of peace, it is impossible to imagine the fear scenes that took place on Laksevåg this day. 193 people lost their lives, many survived with large and small physical injuries that were treated. In time, people had to make the best they could. Life went on, houses and homes were to be rebuilt, and it was not time to ponder over the evil that had happened. After six months peace came, and with peace came the gratitude to our allies who crushed Hitler's third kingdom and freed Europe from Nazism. For official Norway, this was not the time to talk about the damage and pain that had been caused to Laksevåg's residents by the bombing of the Allies. You'd forget, move on in life. In a chronicle in the Official Journal of Bergen on 14 October 2007, Trygve Gulbrandsen, retired lecturer and victim of the bombing, demonstrates that the allied attack was lost in the major works dealing with the war in Norway, and that this fortification lasted a very long time. Today we know that oblivion is not a good strategy to deal with dramatic events. Many of the children on Laksevåg have struggled with the aftermath throughout their lives after the bombing. Many have worn out without linking their problems with the events of October 4, 1944. The tenderness around these things has been an extra strain, because the individual has been left to himself. It is rare to say that the expression ‘to add shame to harm’ has been better suited. Gradually, some of the surviving schoolchildren began to apply for a war pension at a well-adult age. Very many of these experienced rejection of their applications, because the Reich Agency felt that there was no connection between the problems they have today and the experiences during the war. The War Pensions Act dates back to 1946. Durable but or impaired working capacity due to damage to war gives entitlement to a pension. The so-called Etinger Committee went through applications for pensions due to mental distress, and practices since 1990 are based on the sample’s proposal for a causal presumption. In other words, groups of war participants with mental disorders receive a pension without individual treatment. Children buried in the ruins over a certain period of time after bombing were subject to a system of presumption. For the Holen children, the practice of this rule has not been satisfactory. There have since been major questions about the basis on which the Rikstrygdeverket has had to reject applications for a war pension. In particular, it has been said that in recent years there has been a great deal of knowledge about what war is doing to children, how war is going on, what the traumas are being inflicted on children and how this affects their lives. The Memorial Association of 4 October 1944 has done a great job of bringing this matter to the attention of authorities, politicians and the media. With strong evidence of what happened on October 4, 1944, and what has happened during the post-war period with the survivors, they have created a great deal of commitment to the matter. In October 2006, the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion asked the NAV for an explanation of the practice of the provisions on the war pension for the cave dwellers in Finnmark and for the Holen children. Last July, an interim report was published asking for an updated expert study on the late effects of child war. The report was available in March this year, and it concludes with a recommendation that the principle of presumption can be introduced for those who were directly affected by the bombing and who at adult age have been diagnosed with psychological damage compatible with post-traumatic stress. On 14 May, State Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen could announce that the recommendation of the expert committee will be followed, and that all Holen children who have been rejected will have their case reviewed in the light of this new practice. This is a victory for those who have fought broken and impatient for a number of years. I dare say that without the Memorial Association of 4 October 1944, we would not have come to where we are today in this area. There is therefore every reason to commend the representatives of this association. They have promoted their own and their childhood friends' case in a way that imposes great respect. I would also like to take the opportunity to give Bjarne Håkon Hanssen a great reward for his commitment to this matter. There has been close contact with the memory association over the last year, and it is my opinion that this has been greatly appreciated by a group that has not received too much attention on their case in the years since 1944.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e448	There is little doubt about what happened on October 4, 1944. It is well documented both in the Memory Association book ‘We rise again’ and in the community. It's also well documented by the people who actually experienced the event, who woke up on October 4th, a harvest day at the end of World War II, and really just had the hope of going to school, a normal school day on a normal day. Even though there was war, even though there were some special states, it had not been expected or believed in anything like that that day, that 152 allied planes came into the West with one clear objective, namely to take out the German submarines and submarine bunker in Laksevåg. Unfortunately, what happened happened. You bombed an entire community and a whole school. This event is in many ways quite special in Norwegian war-historical context. It was our allies who did the bombing. It was our allies who made sure that what happened happened happened, and that led to this terrible event. I would also like to extend a great deal of thanks to the Memory Association, which has spent an incredible amount of time, energy and resources documenting and fighting for this matter - fought it in the Stortingen, fought for information that enables us, as big-scale representatives, to take it up and get a decision. There is little doubt that that day must have burned well, with despair, fear and fear of the survivors. There is little doubt that this has caused large wounds that will never be cured. There is also no doubt that many have experienced and gone about with severe traumatic suffering after this event. That is why I am very pleased that we are finally getting a review of all these applications, that the matter is being re-examined. I think it has been unworthy that some have had to fight in court to get a war pension, while others have had no resources or opportunities to raise this matter and fight for it - and thus have not received it. Unfortunately, in most cases, applications have been rejected after 2000. That is why I look forward to the treatment that NAV is now going to do, by going through all of these matters again. I expect that when NAV carries out a review of these issues, one will look at them with completely new eyes, that the expert group's recommendation is based on the 2005 ruling in Gulating Lawyers' Rights, and that there is no longer any doubt that the people we are talking about and who have carried on these experiences through a long life, have had, or could have had, post-traumatic stress disorders. That's what's been part of the core of the rejections in the past, that you've been in doubt if that could be the case. I am convinced that there should have been no doubt in this respect. I am convinced that you have to look at this with new eyes. I also hope that the Council of State will take this into account in the further work and in the contact he has with NAV when this is to be reviewed - I hope that the positions and views of the Rikstrøgdewerk in 2005 will be abandoned. At that time there were four cases that were dealt with in court--the state was sentenced to pay the war pension to four pieces, four of the applicants that were from Laksevåg and Holen school. At the time, Martin Andresen of the Rikstrygdeverket stated that the outcome of the trial would not have any consequences for the Rikstrygdeverket’s practice and the treatment of applicants from Holen School and Laksevåg. That kind of practice I now expect has been disregarded. The kind of attitude I expect is put in a drawer when you go over the issues again, and now you assign these people a legitimate war pension. If you don't, this is going to be a bad thing for the people we're talking about here, once again a big blow under the belt. For God's sake, I hope we don't.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e470	The size should today put a point in a case that is about something that happened almost 64 years ago at Laksevåg in Bergen. The allied effort against the German submarines and the submarine bunker in Bergen was considered to be of great strategic importance in winning World War II. Thus, 152 allied bombers came across the West on 4 October 1944 and dropped their cargo over a military and strategic target. The tragedy of Laksevåg, as in many war events, was that the military goal lay in the middle of a civil society. 193 people died. Only at Holen School, 80 people died, 61 of whom were children. So this was the biggest civil disaster in Norway during the war. For those who survived, the tragedy has left deep marks. The survivors tell of various disorders, both psychologically and semanticly: concentration problems and hearing problems. The disaster occurred in the middle of World War II. In other words, a municipal crisis team was not ready to deal with them as bad as bad. On the contrary, many were sent by farms to other places in the country. The matter was met with silence. The disaster has been regarded as special and delayed for decades after the war, as it was the allies behind the bombing. The fact that the Allies were behind in a way made the losses and stresses less “considerable” than the losses and suffering suffered directly by the Germans. This may be the brutal logic of war. In war things become very black and white. However, this made the children at Laksevåg feel totally unreasonable. I think most people see the obvious that such tragedies have consequences and can set lasting tracks. The issue we are dealing with today is just about whether the children who survived this trauma and who are now in their 70s are entitled to a war pension for the plague they have suffered as a result of the bombing. The core issue, which the Norwegian social security system has met in a very rigid way, is whether it can be assumed that the bombing has actually plagued the children who survived. The time aspect means that we have to describe this matter as a small honorable chapter in the post-war history of Norway. One can really wonder how our social security system works when these kinds of questions first find a lasting solution so long after the disaster occurred. It can't be the economy of it, because so many people don't. Nor can it be afraid of precedent effects, because, as I said, this was the biggest civil disaster in Norway during World War II. Research into the consequences of children's experiences and traumas after war has given increased insight. The government started, after much progress both in this case and in the cave settlement case in Finnmark, first a review of the practice in these matters internally in the Working and Welfare Act. This work started in October 2006 and was completed in June 2007. Then work was started on a new expert assessment, led by Professor Dr.med. Lars Weiseth. In March this year, this group presented an investigation that suggests that those affected are expected to have suffered mental trauma as a result of the Laksevåg bombing and a lack of follow-up. It was also established that there is a basis for a so-called group assessment in accordance with the presumption principle in this case. The principle of pre-emption applies when war incidents hit a group roughly equally in relation to severity. In a letter to the Labour and Social Committee of 13 May, the Council of State has decided that the Directorate of Labour and Welfare will review all rejections concerning children from Holen School and the Finnmark cave settlement. Therefore, those concerned must not submit a new application or take other initiatives and the review will be carried out during 2008. Hopefully, then, a final sentence is put into this case, almost two years after the government started the first review of the case. So the process ahead hasn't been easy. Therefore, the honor does not go to us politicians, or to the Government, for that matter. On the contrary, however, I believe it is in place to mention the efforts of the Memory Association of 4 October 1944 and Rolf Andersen have made over the years to document mental and physical suffering and sensitivities as a result of this tragedy. Without this work, we obviously had not got a good solution in this case. The setting also refers to experiences that the so-called cave dwellers in Finnmark were exposed to during the war. This group is more heterogeneous than the one who survived the bombing of Holen School. But there will also be a need to go further into individual matters also for the cave dwellers, and I take up on that occasion the proposal Right, Christian People's Party and Left have in the vote on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e500	Torbjørn Hansen has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e503	I agree with the rapporteur's statement and with the statement from Per Rune Henriksen - they went through the matter very thoroughly. The bombing of Laksevåg and Holen School were of the largest and most terrible single events--if not the most terrible event--that struck civilians during the war. The fact that it was allies who were responsible for the bombing made it enough that the case was subsequently delayed, and that the handling of the case had been given an unfortunate course. It is good that the matter now seems to have a solution. It is worrying that there is going to be so much effort over so long to be seen and heard in such a case. That is why the Memory Association has received a lot of praise today, and I will join it. When the Memory Association has not given up, it has ensured that justice has not lost. It's important for the whole community. It has also ensured that social responsibility and ethics in such cases have not been defeated. It's important. It's important for them, but it's also important for society. Recent research has led to a new turnaround in the case. Dreams of war acts know we can hurt a human being for the rest of our lives. There has been general knowledge, but when it comes to governing such schemes, it is required that there is a research basis for it. You get a research basis in retrospect, so it's always going to be kind of an after-school clock. It's hard in such cases. But I think, when I have read through some of these matters, that the threshold of proof to understand or accept that someone has been harmed by such serious acts of war, has been unreasonable in relation to the ordinary people actually understand can be attributed to a person in such a situation. Hopefully, this research can help us to understand, with knowledge and understanding of how war acts harm people, how those who have been subjected to serious war injuries carry this with them all their lives, as a problem that may also cause them difficulties in relation to society around them. It's a reality, and many of us who've known someone who's been in captivity during the war, for example, know that many of them have worn out violently afterwards. The right to social security has been mentioned here in an earlier article, which now expects changes in practice. Yes, we do. But it's a political task to add the leaders that allow the Social Security Court to draw different conclusions. It's not like this now. The Labour and Social Committee was visiting the Social Security Court not too long ago when we asked about this, and they clearly say that there are changes in legislation and central leadership that need to be put in place before one can change practice, because they relate to legislation. - So yes, there will now be changes, and the political task of getting those changes we're putting in place in the Storting today. It is absolutely right that today's praise should go to those who have not given in to this matter, but I would also like to commend the Minister of Labour and Inclusion, who has made an effort to reach the result we have reached today. I'm very happy that we do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e520	I am very pleased that the matter of military retirement for the victims after the bombing of Laksevåg and Holen School now gets a solution. Here one of the greatest civil disasters took place during World War II. The treatment of these victims has been a disgrace in Norwegian post-war history, and it is high time that this injustice was settled. The Christian People's Party is in line with the assessments made by the expert group on the subject of presumption and that the victims are now re-assessed in NAV. I'm assuming that this must happen as soon as possible given the age of some of the victims. The efforts of the Memory Association of 4 October 1944 and Rolf Andersen have been crucial for the positive outcome of this case. The years of work that Andersen and the Memory Association have done to document the physical and mental suffering and sensitivities of the victims are impressive. It shows how important individuals and NPISHs can be, and confirms that, after all, Norwegian democracy has a capacity to correct wrong steps, even if it may take a long time. We must never forget that society is built best from below. I am glad that a total accumulation underlines that it would be natural for the cave dwellers and forced deposits in Finnmark and Nord-Troms to have their cases re-established according to the same presumption principle. Rolf Andersen has written the book «The Forgotten People». The book is a strong reading. Here we can read that the inhabitants of North Norway in a radio talk on 30 November 1944 were asked by the then Crown Prince Olav to oppose the order of the Nazis to allow themselves to be forced to evacuate south. Many followed the call and stayed in caves and earthworms over the winter, while the Germans burned their houses and slaughtered the animals. Today we have to make sure that these do not become the forgotten people. Therefore, it is regrettable that it is only the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Left who ask the Government to establish a cheap compensation scheme for the cave dwellers and the forced deportees in Finnmark and Nord-Troms. The size of the population has also adopted a number of different compensation schemes in the context of World War II, including: to Japanese prisoners. A number of Norwegian seafarers were held captive in Africa during World War II. This is a matter that has not received so much attention, and the victims have not received any kind of compensation from the Norwegian State for their significant efforts for Norway during World War II. For many, it was almost two and a half years long imprisonment. The Christian People's Party cannot see that there is a fundamental difference between the North who were in Japanese captivity and the North who were imprisoned in African countries. I therefore believe that it is reasonable to establish a system of compensation for the North who were in African captivity.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e536	We still have unfinished business after war damage during World War II. More than 60 years after the end of the war, there are still people who feel that they have not received an uprising in the form of a war pension to which they believe they are entitled. The children who were exposed to the bombing of the Holen School, and the cave dwellers on the South Island of Finnmark, are among these. I am very pleased with the extensive work that has been done at the request of the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion. I would like to add: someone says that the Council of State here does not deserve any attention, but the Council of State has actually intervened directly and made sure that we have the basis that we have today, to get this in place. I'm very happy about that. I am pleased with the work done to clarify whether we have previously had good enough knowledge of children's response to war experiences, and they tend to damage such experiences. That's what we've been told, and it hasn't been founded in the past. Through this work, we now get a new practice that is too late for many, we can say -- but at the same time represents a recognition that problems many have struggled with through a long life, can be traced back to the great stresses they were subjected to during the war. As for the cave dwellers on Sørøya, I was first made aware of their situation by the former rapporteur in the municipality of Hasvik. Later, I have been given the opportunity to learn more about the cave dwellers and the children from Holen school through contact with Rolf Andersen, as many have mentioned, and the Memorial Association of 4 October 1944, which many have also mentioned and given honor to here in the past. Without the efforts they have made to document the children's case, we would probably not have had the opportunity to give more justice by resuming matters. Then the Council of State would not have had the opportunity to go into this matter and ask for the assessments that we have now received on the table. For the cave dwellers, the situation has been particularly difficult. I would like to underline that. They came from the same area, but they were scattered during the evacuation of Finnmark and not least after returning to Norway after the war. The Huleboer children have little ability to coordinate their experiences and interests. That's why Rolf Andersen's work has meant a lot to them. Without his efforts, very many in their situation would not have had the opportunity to reach an assessment for a war pension. In its letter, the Council of State indicates that, on the basis of the expert assessments submitted, the Directorate of Labour and Welfare will re-examine all refusals concerning war pensions for children from the Holen School and the cave settlements, and that this review will be carried out during 2008. This is the important and positive outcome of this case, which many of us at Stortinget have been working on for a long time. We have to be satisfied that this is coming into place now. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party have then chosen to make proposals on a matter which is not part of the proposal for a representative and which has recently been discussed in the Stortinget. Norwegian seafarers who were held captive in Africa in the first years of the war lived through experiences that deserve attention and have demands for compassion. I understand that a total greatness means. It is also true that this part of the war history probably has not received the attention it should have had. Then the question of this is answered in the best and most correct way by following up the proposals made by the Progress Party on a separate compensation scheme after the Stortinget has previously stated that this is not a natural way to follow up the case, and after the estimates made by the Stortinget in 2006, which reconstructed a large-scale report presented by the previous government. So there's been a previous work here, and I'm asking myself if it serves the case to take it up the way it's done now, in a different committee and department other than cheap substitutes usually under. It was the Justice Committee and the Ministry of Justice that had cases last. That doesn't mean that this part of our war history doesn't deserve attention, and that the efforts these people have made deserve attention and recognition.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e551	I'm going to begin by admitting that the bombing of Laksevåg and Holen School was not knowledge I got in my time at school. When I first met the Memory Association in the spring of 2007, it was first and foremost a history class that I will never forget. I guess it also tells you a little bit about something that many people in this room have been in, that the very fact that it was the allies who were behind the bombing, made this in many ways something shameful. It's probably made the situation extremely difficult for those who experienced the bombing in Laksevåg. The problem has been in many ways that we have needed new knowledge to get on with the matter. The meeting I've had with the Memory Association has led to me constantly trying to ask about the handling of the cases, and the rejections we've given have been based on the latest knowledge we've had about this. It is wrong to present it as if no one has been compensated. Many have received a war pension, but many have also received a discount. My approach to the matter is about asking the following questions: The knowledge we had on the basis of the Ethics Committee, was it the up-to-date knowledge? Has there happened more in research and knowledge development as to how the kind of experiences these children were exposed to can harm their children later in life, that is, when they reach adult age? It gave me the basis to ask NAV to set up a new selection to be updated at the knowledge level. And it gave the answer that I thought we would get: we know more now, we know more now about what can happen to a human being who has been exposed to this kind of experience in childhood. It has once again provided the basis for changing policies. I understand that many are critical of what happened to these matters in the old Riksstrøgdeverket. I do not have any responsibility for it, so I do not need to apologize, but at the same time I think it is important to stress that the Swedish National Agency dealt with matters on the basis of what was then widely accepted knowledge. So I don't think we're going to make the Rikstrøgdeverket or NAV an actor in this. I think we should admit that we now know more. It provides the basis for a new policy instruction, and then I feel very confident that NAV will take this into account. In fact, what I have decided is in line with the recommendations of NAV. So there's no contradiction between what the department thinks, and what NAV means in this context. We now get the situation that I wanted, namely that all those who have been denied their application for a war pension in recent years, and who were children and present in Laksevåg or at Holen School on 4 October 1944, get their case reviewed according to new practice. They do not need to submit a new application. NAV will review matters in a short time. This will also apply to the cave dwellers. Of course, I am glad that we have come your way. It is now important that matters are dealt with quickly. Many of them are old people, and it's important that we clarify matters so quickly that people can experience a war pension. Then, in conclusion, I will just join all those who have given tribute to the Memory Association. It has really been very strong to meet many of the victims through the Memory Association-- but at the same time very well and really. It is the impression that all the meetings have given me, which has been my inspiration to clarify matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e566	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e569	It is true, as the Council of State says, that we have also gained new knowledge through the new group of experts who have gone through these matters thoroughly. They include: through the mental disorders that these people may have suffered, and conclude that there is a great likelihood that this has happened. However, as early as 2005, a law-enforcement ruling in Gulating Lawyers’ Law established that one had that knowledge. So you had previous knowledge that this could have happened, and you should have been replaced on that basis. At the time, the Riksstrøgdeverket stated that it would not change its practice, even if one had a judgment from a court in Norway. That is why my question is as follows: will the Council of State ensure, after this debate and the work done by the Ministry, that NAV is followed up in such a way that it can be guaranteed to the Storting that there will be a new practice in these matters?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e578	The answer to the specific question is that there is now a new practice for dealing with children who experienced the bombing in Laksevåg and children who have been directly affected by acts of war. The policy has now been changed following the new technical report. But if you read the judgment of November 2005 in Gulating Lawyers' Law, I think it's too simple an interpretation that Eriksson's representative now comes along, that on the basis of that judgment you should have understood this. That's not the way the sentence is designed, in our opinion. It is very individually designed and provides a very weak basis for a change in practice. There was insufficient basis for a change in practice. That's why we've gone the way we've now gone, which leads to a change in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e585	A humane country treats its countrymen with dignity and respect. None of us are proud that this matter has taken so long. The cave dwellers and the forced deposits in Finnmark and Nord-Troms are now becoming very old. Too many people are running out of time. What will--or, I feel absolutely sure that the Council of State will, so let me ask, what can the Council of State do to ensure that this group is treated as quickly as possible? My second question is why the government won't even investigate a compensation arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e592	As I have tried to say, the things of the cave dwellers will now be handled in such a way that they will be examined on the initiative of NAV on the basis of the new knowledge we have. NAV has told me that together approx. 100 issues concerning the children of Laksevåg and Holen school and the cave dwellers will be examined. The selection of experts is quite clear that the treatment of cave-dwelling children’s cases must be done in a very different way compared to the treatment of cases from Holen School and Laksevåg, where the group thinking can be applied more strongly than for the cave-dwelling children. But the matter will also be examined for the cave dwellers in the cold water by the expert assessment we have now had.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e599	The council deserves praise and tribute for the good way this was handled in terms of Laksevåg and Holen school. Per Rune Henriksen said forgetfulness and silence are not a good strategy. Several of us, during the treatment of this matter, have been given access to very much of the treatment of cases involving especially the cave dwellers and have seen how long the process has taken. Some of the cases have taken up to 20 years, with rejection, testing again, etc. Then my question is to the Council of State: Will he follow up those matters, so that we get a faster clarification? I also see what the Council of State writes in the last letter, and I have great hope that it must be possible to find a faster clarification and focus on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e606	NAV has assured me that they will now give priority to these matters. That means it won't be months and years before we get the new review done. I expect it to happen within a few months, so that all the matters have been reviewed and clarified during this year, and preferably as early as possible in the autumn. As far as I know, NAV is re-examined, and that is, as I said, approx. 100 cases, concerning the children at Laksevåg and Holen school and the cave dwellers, which are reviewed on the basis of the fact that the practice has been changed as a result of new professional knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e611	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e616	The proposal for a representative, signed by the proposers, was launched in March last year. The examination within the Committee has taken some time. However, the procedure experienced by the victims after the Holen School bombing has been speeded up. So this isn't about cheap pay, it's about getting a war pension or not. The procedure before this case is, in my view, unworthy. Unfortunately, it is not an exceptional case, but it is regrettablely symptomatic of the state's lack of will and state's infallibility to both groups and individuals who have suffered post-war injuries during World War II. I challenge the position that we have lacked enough information to show care on behalf of the big society and the state. Nevertheless, the Advance Party hopes that this will be a point in the matter. I will of course also join the Rose of the Memory Association. I want to refer to several of the posts, and to, among others. Annex 1 to the case, where reference has been made to what is stated by the case-rapporteur on the laws of military retirement: «No financial aid can remedy the sufferings of the war in this way, but society must feel it as its duty, as far as it can remedy the economic consequences for those affected by the war [[...]] This was supposed to be particularly true in 2008, as it was in 1946. There is also reason to refer to another thing that is mentioned in the case, namely that Laksevåg was perhaps the most war-torn municipality in the country. There is, of course, also reason to refer to the new expert assessment made in 2008 to point out, as several others have done, the judgment of the Law of Lawyers in November 2005 and, not least, the reaction of a representative of the Riksstrøgdeverket in the aftermath. It shows positions that are unacceptable, and it is, of course, unacceptable whether such positions should be continued by NAV. In other health and social matters, I have called for a weather-cautious poster for public authorities and for NAV in particular. Unfortunately, it is actually a good idea still. Regrettably, it is also that for different departments and state councils it could be okay and useful with both a weather careful poster and a thought self-paste. But in this case, it seems that this council has thought, and that's good. My praise goes to the Council of State especially for what has come in the last letter, where it is very clearly noted and clarified that there is reason to change practice. I hope it is done, and I hope we set a point for this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e635	Like the previous speaker, I hope not only that there is a point in this case, but I expect a point to be set. I also see the Council of States as very positive, that he wants to make sure that there is progress in the matter, and that he will also ensure that that progress is maintained, so that those people who have not been re-established can have the opportunity to experience that they are re-accomplished, and possibly have a recognised military pension. I'm very happy about that. So to what the representative Dagfinn Sundsbø brought up in connection with the Norwegians who were in captivity in Africa. Very familiar it is that although this case has been dealt with in the Storting before, it has not happened so much for that group. No solution has come. Then I think it's a bit strange attitude the representative Sundsbø shows when he thinks it's strange to re-propose a proposal where you actually want to get an arrangement for these too, like the scheme that was put in place for Norwegians who were in Japanese captivity. The fact that it should be delayed and not mentioned cannot be considered in the present case. Here we are promoting a general proposal asking for an assessment of a compensation scheme. We do not go into it and say specifically what compensation scheme it should be, but we want to get an assessment of a compensation scheme, just to get the opportunity to reconsider the matter. We are convinced that it will also be right to end another chapter in Norwegian war history. On that basis, I would also like to address the proposal referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e646	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e649	Firstly, the Left had wanted a system in which one could have looked at the compensation system for the war in general and not specifically in the individual field. But then, as Mr Sundsbø mentioned earlier, we have put forward a proposal on the North in African captivity. That is why the Left will vote in favour of proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e654	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3628]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e662	The size should then go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e701	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Ivar Kristiansen on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 2, from Line Henriette Holten Hemdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 3, from Line Henriette Holten Hemdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party Proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party and the Left, has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government submit proposals for phasing out inefficient light sources, either in the form of a legal ban on bulbs or the introduction of strict general energy requirements for light sources.’ The President will propose that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any rebuttal. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e735	Proposal No. 1, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to assess the implementation of a mortgage scheme for mercury-containing savings bulbs and fluorescent tubes.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e767	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by André N. Skkelstad on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 2, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Progress Party
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e789	President! It has been known in the past that the Left will vote in favour of the proposal. I think there was some confusion during the voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e794	Confusion can be quick here. Then we take the vote again on proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party, which is therefore to be supported by the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e805	Proposal No. 1, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish a cheap compensation scheme for the cave dwellers and the forced deportees in Finnmark and Nord-Troms, and asks the Government to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10.ana.ud255e841	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
