ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e22	Representatives of Peter Skovholt Gitmark, Åse M. Schmidt, Sonja Irene Sjøli, Åslaug Haga, Eirin Fallet, Rune J. Skylaaen, Laila Davøy, Asmund Kristoffersen, May-Helen Molvær Grimstad, Jan Arild Ellingsen, Alf Ivar Samuelsen, Britt Hildeng, Tore Nordtun, Bent Höie, Solvency Horne, Bjørg Tørsdal, Erling Sande, Gunvald Ludvigsen and Irene Johansen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. They called the alternates, for Finnmark County of Kirsti Saxi and for Nordland County of Knut Petter Torgersen, have taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: from the representative of Finn Martin Vallersnes on leave from 19 November to 21 November to take part in the delegation of the Interparliamentary Union to the 63rd General Assembly of the United Nations in New York from the Workers' Party Group on the welfare leave of the representative Siliva K. Kosmo from 19 November to 28 November On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representatives, for Rogaland County Siri A. Meling, and for Westfold County Tom Stroemstad Olsen, are called to meet during the leave. Siri A. Meling is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of Finn Martin Vallersnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e127	Siri A. Meling and Tom Stroemstad Olsen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e133	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today and the rest of the week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Solvency Horne. – Other proposals are not available, and Solvency Horne is considered unanimously elected president of this week’s meetings. The representative, Mr Sortevik, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e140	On behalf of representatives Bård Hoksrud, Per Sandberg and myself, I am delighted to present proposals for the modernisation of Norwegian aviation policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e145	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e171	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative, Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e180	Of course, it is natural for the Storting to focus on the state budget and its effects in the midst of a financial crisis and in times of recession. But we will come back to that in later questions, because there are some people in our society who are always experiencing a financial crisis, who are always experiencing downtimes that are always on the shadow side of society. A small group of them were visiting here in Stortinget yesterday and could present to several parties represented at Stortinget strong evidence of a rather tough and demanding existence. After all, when the President and the Prime Minister and several of us have an acute health problem, we get immediate medical treatment. If we have a heart problem, a broken leg, or whatever it is, we get emergency medical help. When drug users need urgent help to survive, they are told to wait. They are told to stand in a queue. We have big, unsolved tasks in this area. That is why I want to challenge the Prime Minister on the possibilities of putting in place now a broad political settlement, so that we can solve this unworthy situation for too many young and ageing drug users who have had major challenges for too long, many of whom have been committed to solving for a long time. But then we need an agreement across, and then we also need the participation of red-green parties and the government. The question to the Prime Minister will be whether he is willing to help us get a solution that can improve the situation for this highly vulnerable group of people as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e189	It is very good and important that the situation of drug users is addressed in the Storting because it is one of the most serious societal problems we face. It affects a lot of people, those who use drugs and who have a dependency problem. But it also hits a lot more than they do. It hits their children, it hits their families and their friends. Therefore, it is important that we discuss how we can do more, but not least how we gain experience from what we have done, to learn from it – because it is a problem that there is still a lot of professional uncertainty about how we best solve. I think things should be done quickly. I believe that increased action is necessary, and I believe that it is only an advantage, a strength, if we can come up with agreed solutions for more action. More action has been taken in 2009. We have presented an action plan for the drug field, and it is now being followed up by an increase of 300 million in appropriations. kr in 2009 budget proposals. It allows for stepping up efforts in terms of treatment, in terms of drug-assisted treatment and in terms of other types of relief measures, lowthreshold services, for drug users. The budget is in the Health and Care Committee in Stortinget, and I think it is only an advantage to arrive at agreed solutions. Of course, it is also possible to discuss agreed solutions in later crossroads beyond 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e196	This, I think, was a very uplifting response from the Prime Minister. This means that we may now be closer than ever to solving a social problem that has been hanging over us for too long and, unfortunately, more and more young people are in a completely meaningless way. Then, of course, it is necessary that we have an offer that can solve the most acute problems that many people face, but it is equally important that we have a better interaction between emergency detoxification, retreatment and post-treatment. Now that we are able to put this interaction in place in a short time, we have done something that will help a very vulnerable group of people. I just want to ask the Prime Minister for further confirmation that we are now seeing the outlines of a broad political settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e201	What I'm concerned about is that there's a proposal in Stortinget about significant escalation in the field of drugs. That proposal lies in our proposal for a State budget, and it is now to be dealt with in the Storting. If there is an opportunity to come up with agreed solutions in the committee around this, I believe it is a strength for policy and for drug-related action. I just want to stress that there are basically three things you can do with the trouble. One is to prevent and prevent people from experiencing drug problems. It is about a broad range of measures, from labour market policy, housing policy, education policy to much more. Then it's about helping people who have become addicted to addiction, to stop being addicted to alcohol. It's about treatment, help. The third, which may not be so much focused, is that we should also show respect and give a good offer to those who live with a drug problem, and who will live with a drug problem all their lives. Those people, too, are entitled to decent treatment, respect, health services and other measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e212	There will be follow-up questions – first Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e215	I am pleased that the Government of the State budget has increased the appropriation for the care of Russo. I would like to recall how the head of the Council of Trade Unions in Rusfeld in Norway has characterised the previous budgets of this government. He has pointed out that this is the lowest growth in the amount of money spent on care. He pointed it out so that with the previous government the weakest in our society got a place at the table, with this government they have fed the weakest under the table again. We would like to agree on a strong commitment to care, but in that case it must contain two things: it must contain a greater economic effort than what is in the budget. We have proposed that. Secondly, it must respect the diversity of drug users. Then we need a variety of offers. What has happened now is that it has become a more unilateral offer. There have been fewer of the other creative, private solutions in the care of drug users. I hope the Prime Minister will help change that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e222	I agree that we need a wide range of services for drug users. That's why it's a variety of offer, and we want to strengthen and expand a variety of offer by having the greatest increase of the times, 300 million. kr, for the provision of care in this budget. More money is good and important. There's going to be more money. I believe that, in addition to more money, we also need a comprehensive discussion and dialogue, not least with drug users, users of services, on how best to establish services. We still have a lot of professional uncertainty about what are the best measures for drug users.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e233	Laila Bavøy - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e236	Today we have 4 000 drug users in line in our country. The waiting lists are increasing. The government's tendering policy has led to the availability of many voluntary and private institutions. They have not reached new agreements with the regional health establishments. In particular, this applies to Health South-East. We also see that more and more people are receiving medical treatment without any other social measures, without any aftercare. We heard it yesterday from a number of drug users who were in this house. Health South-East has changed its drug policy. They only have 15 places for long-term treatment beyond one year. Everyone knows that heavy drug addicts need help for perhaps several years — even in institutions. It's actually out of control in Health South-East, Prime Minister, despite the government's escalation plan. What will the Prime Minister and the Government do to gain control? Do you now want to use the vacant posts in the voluntary and private institutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e247	I believe that there must be an interaction between public services, public institutions and private services. That's 60 pst. of the measures financed by the public are private. Private facilities shall be provided within the framework of care. It's always been, and it's going to be in the future as well. The crucial thing is that we allocate more money for more treatment, both in public and in private. It's been done. More people receive treatment, and more people are referred to treatment. In addition, the increase in drug-assisted rehabilitation — methadone and similar measures. In addition, through the drug reform, we have ensured that all drug addicts are covered by the Patient Rights Act, so that they are treated in line with others for the medical problems they have. We need more effort – and there will be more effort. I would like to discuss with the opposition how best to organise that effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e256	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e259	First, I would like to mention a measure that does not cost money. It is that the Prime Minister is doing what he can to ensure that the Minister of Health and Welfare, the Minister of Justice and the City Council in Oslo, sit closely together and have regular meetings to plan down the doorsteps that we know are between the state health service and the locality. So I would like to say to the Prime Minister that the good police now alerted, Kåre Stølen and Anstein Grangedal, have long seagoing times. They are wise people, and we must listen to them with the seriousness that I feel this matter has. Then to the second. When the comprehensive Oslo system to help addicts gets mixed in all the great health south-east – and I really admire all the others in health south-east – it shows one thing, which is now understandable: there is a lack of space. This requires money, so that the queues can come down. The left would like to encourage the Prime Minister to bring that money, so that people can get help when they are going, both for emergency treatment, for treatment and for after-care.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e266	First of all, I am in favour of dialogue. I believe it is important that state health politicians, i.e. state health authorities, talk to municipal health authorities. I believe that the drug reform provides a clearer and better division of labour. It guarantees drug-dependent patient rights, and it also ensures more drug-dependent treatment. I am also in favour of dialogue between different authorities to step up efforts. It is good for more people to be treated, but it is rather comforting for those who are not being treated, for many to be treated. The communication of pride that we actually manage to provide more people with treatment, along with impatience and dissatisfaction that there are too many people who are not being treated, is among policy repeaters when it comes to communicating what we are actually doing. So I think that we have the task of helping people out of their addiction to drugs, but also of formulating a policy that shows respect for treatment for those who are going to live with a drug problem all their lives. I feel that there is a broad consensus about that in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e275	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e278	First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for being open to cooperation with the Health and Welfare Committee to settle in the field of drugs. The problem is that we probably don't solve this issue in the short term in just one subject, namely health. In the justice system, there are major problems associated with prison inmates who have drug problems and are to be returned to the municipalities after a settlement has ended. In the municipalities, we have post-employment protection, a field that falls under the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, linked to follow-up, to housing, and we have to try to get work in place, so that you can get permanent restlessness – and of course we have health services. My question to the Prime Minister is: Will the Prime Minister help to bring about a larger and wider deal between several departments, so that we can work more targetedly and put in place more permanent solutions, rather than short-term solutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e285	What I agree with is that in terms of the total supply of drug users and their follow-up, whether it be municipal aftercare, state treatment or, for example, drug treatment. The efforts of the police, we need better interaction between the different parties. If there is something this government has now put on the agenda, there is just the need for better interaction. The interaction reform we have announced will also benefit drug users, because we are just looking at the offer in state hospitals in the context of what the municipalities are doing. This is also part of that discussion and the need to improve interaction. The government will come back to it, but what I have just pointed out is that what is most urgent, namely the 2009 budget, is in the Stortingen and is to be dealt with in the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e292	The size goes to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e295	Every day, new bankruptcies, new legacies, new redundancies in Norway appear in the news. We get new international reports saying that the crisis is hitting harder and tougher than expected in many countries, including one of the major driving forces so far, namely China. TV 2 has a continuously updated list of redundancies and lay-offs in the industry. It's a sad sight to see how many jobs are about to be closed – the well-known, good ones, which we thought were solid businesses. When the government presented its government budget, the Minister of Finance was challenged that there was no plan for the crisis. She replied that yes, I have a plan, and the plan is the state budget. But on the same day she told the NRK that the state budget was not affected by the crisis. That means that the government has a plan for the crisis, which is not affected by the crisis. This can be seen in the State budget, which includes: in the case of tax increases, and the degree of expansion is also seen. I hear that the Prime Minister sometimes answers that they have submitted an expansive budget, but the extent of expansiveness in this budget is just as great as what was delivered last year in a situation of labour shortage, in a situation of an overheated economy. All business organisations say that the tax scarfs in this budget are unfortunate for the investment will and for the jobs. The government is arrogant. When does the Government intend to rectify and see that tax relief is one of the means to get out of the crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e309	Nothing is more important for this government than securing jobs. If we succeed in the fight to keep unemployment down, we also succeed in the fight to contribute to social smoothing, to value creation. This is why it is so important that we now mobilise to ensure Norwegian jobs, to secure Norwegian businesses. It is gratifying that during the three years of this government, unemployment has halved compared to the level of the previous government. That's what's now under threat. It is the low unemployment that is now under threat, and the government and many others have warned that we are now facing a situation where unemployment is going to increase in Norway. Nor shall there be any doubt that the Government is ready to put in place the necessary measures — where necessary and when necessary. We can come up with new measures at short notice, precisely because there is such a large and comprehensive international crisis that is going to hit hard. It's going to hit hard, and it's going to hit Norway. The fact is that we should not really just discuss whether to have a package of measures, but we should always discuss what to do. It is a set of measures. I have traveled a lot to Norwegian companies and met employees and company managers, and they say that one thing is the most important thing now, and that is to make the banks work. It's getting the interest rate down. We have submitted a bank package to get to this, and the Bank of Norway has reduced interest rates in two rounds. So we know that there are other acute problems. We have e.g. current challenges in relation to business finance institutions, e.g. Export finance. We're now in close dialogue with them to get it into place. We are ready to promote action. We promote action. We are going to step up the measures there and when necessary to ensure Norwegian jobs, because it is vital for us to manage to mitigate the adverse effects of the international financial turmoil, which is now hitting us with full force.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e318	The Prime Minister has had our support for measures to make the banking system work. He has had our support to clean up the financial institutions and to ensure that the credit framework for loans and investments is out there. But the Prime Minister does not answer the main question. The Prime Minister's biggest challenge is to do what we did when we took over after the Prime Minister the last time: turn around in business – from being pessimistic to becoming optimistic, to making people believe in this country and want to invest in and create new jobs. Meeting the business community that will create the jobs, with a poison pill that is about turning the tax on equity in small and medium-sized enterprises, is actually contributing to more pessimism and more relocation of jobs. When does the Prime Minister intend to start acting? That's when the budget is added. That's now punishing businesses by turning their equity tax when they need money. It is now time to ensure that more people are laid off in this country – because of the government’s policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e325	We are facing the most serious and severe setback in the international economy since the 1930s. We have long made it clear that Norway will also be affected. We make it clear, and I would like to repeat, that we are prepared to apply the measures necessary to counteract the adverse effects of the international financial crisis in the Norwegian economy. Now we're doing what all companies are most concerned about: bringing down interest rates, making financial institutions work. There we have taken action. We are ready to take new action. What we're opposed to is giving great tax relief to those who already have the most. We are, on the other hand, in order to reduce the tax on them with lower and medium incomes. We do that in this budget through a social conversion of the inheritance tax. 90 pst. receive a lower inheritance fee. Someone gets more. Then complains to the Right about that reform. I think it's a good reform, with a fairer and more social tax system.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e330	There will be four follow-up questions – first Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e333	If it is that the Government has understood the seriousness of the communications coming from business around the country, and it is that the Prime Minister is ‘prepared’ to implement, as he said, the ‘measures needed’, it would be interesting to hear if a necessary measure for the Red-Green Government would be tax relief. It is true that most countries around us are not only doing something about monetary policy, but also doing something about fiscal policy, among other things. through comprehensive tax relief. So far, the red-green answers have been that they are opposed to giving tax relief to the rich, as they say. But it is fully possible to carry out significant tax cuts for ordinary people, who are now beginning to notice that the situation is quite serious, and which, by increasing their consumption, will speed up the economy. It is possible to implement tax relief targeted at enterprises so that their costs can be reduced. Is there an action that the Prime Minister will take?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e338	The government has given tax relief to people with lower incomes, to people with middle incomes, to people with small fortunes, to people with normal heritage. For example, in this budget, we are making significant improvements to the inheritance tax. 90 pst. of those who receive an inheritance, inherit a cabin, inherit an apartment, receive a significantly lower inheritance tax. We're reducing property taxes on new buildings, but we're increasing them too old, which until today has been a tax system hole. What we're doing is we're doing social transformations of the tax system. We have used lower taxes for lower and medium incomes as an instrument before. We can use it again when and where we think it's necessary. What we disagree with with the Right and the Advance Party is that we should give great tax relief to the richest people in Norway. The proposals put forward by the Right and the Progressive Party in this budget are again very unsocial proposals, with enormous tax relief for the richest people in Norway. We're against that. We do not oppose tax relief for lower and medium income. We have already implemented this – and are open to implementing more of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e343	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e346	A good budget has become even better – I believe that is a statement that the Prime Minister recognizes. If I put on the Prime Minister's glasses, I might very well say that it was a good budget that was presented five to six weeks ago. The problem, however, is that every day since the budget was presented, the government budget has been removed and removed from reality. So we haven't heard anything other than what the Prime Minister has said today, which is exactly what the Minister of Industry said here a week ago: that you follow the situation carefully, and that you might have something in the drawers. My question will therefore be: If the Government, at the end of the day, raises the question that the tax austerity now affecting business will help to increase the unemployment rate, is it willing to reconsider tax austerity in the interests of the workers?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e353	As I said, we have reduced the tax on lower incomes, lower wealth, middle incomes and middle wealth through social transformations. Of course, we're open to do more of that. We're doing part of it in the 2009 budget. What we're not open to is creating new tax loopholes in the tax system that make the richest people get lower taxes or escape completely. So the conversion we're now doing in connection with the inheritance fee, we're saying that over 90 pst. of those who inherit here in the country, a cabin, an apartment and small wealth values, receive drastic reductions in the form of a lower inheritance tax. Then there's someone who's adapted to the holes in the system, who gets higher. It's a social change. I'm for that. I think that actually strengthens our ability to face the financial crisis. For a country that shares fairly, more is able to promise jointly, and it is the community that needs to meet the financial crisis we are now facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e360	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e363	The Prime Minister is right that there has been sunshine over the Norwegian economy in the first three years of his reign. But now the storm has come. During the sunshine period he has been able to take businesses and jobs for granted. They have come dancing on a mountain without anyone lifting a finger. It's not the situation anymore. Now one has to go back to another kind of thinking. Workplaces and employees depend on enterprises and employers. And then it becomes important to have a policy that makes those who are now facing the storm willing to stand on extra to take care of the jobs. Then I'm not just talking about material rules, now people who really need to avoid giving up as many as they might be tempted to, recognition of the job they're doing, and a policy is needed that makes it attractive to be the owner and even use equity to take care of people for a time like this. That's what this is about, not tax relief for employee income, but simply allowing business owners to stand on extra during these days.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e369	I have traveled a lot, met both those who work in the companies, and those who run and own the companies. They have slightly different views on different things, but they have one common message, and it's that what's most acute now is that the financial institutions – whether it's export finance, GIEK or the usual banking system – work, so that companies get borrowed money to secure jobs, to secure investments, and interest rates go down. That is why we are introducing measures in those areas. Some measures have already been taken. Interest goes down. The Banking Authority shall take its action. But we are working on new measures, and there may be actions at short notice. We are working on improving financial instruments for business, among others. through what we are now doing to ensure that export finance can work and does not get problems and thus affects Norwegian companies. So here there's action, and there's action, and they're coming at short notice. I am committed to doing what companies ask me to do, namely to ensure that interest rates go down, because it is the most targeted response to what is now the problem, namely private enterprises that are struggling.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e374	Per-Kristian Foss – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e377	The measures taken by the Norwegian Government are entirely in line with what is being done in the rest of the world. In the rest of the world, something is being done in parallel with the financial sector, which means that banks and financial institutions are helping to stimulate the economy through new measures. There is no one in this debate who has asked for tax relief for high salary incomes, but we have asked that the government at least remove the tax increases on corporate owners, which make business owners have to take money out of businesses to get businesses to go. Since the Prime Minister in the last answer was so busy doing what the companies asked for, I would like to ask: What companies have asked that the owners be taxed higher after this? And what makes the Prime Minister now find no reason to provide tax relief for ordinary income in addition to what was in the budget that was already completed in August? Much has happened since August. And what is the reason why tax relief for ordinary and lower incomes cannot stimulate more strongly?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e382	I am dedicated to securing Norwegian jobs. That is why we are doing what we think is best to ensure Norwegian jobs. The most important thing then is to bring down the interest rates and make the banking system work. Then we have also announced that there may be more action than that. What we're concerned about is choosing the medicine that works, the dosage that's right and the time that it has the greatest effect. This is why the ongoing action is coming. What I'm opposed to is what the Right proposes in its budget, which is across unsocial tax relief: great relief for those who have the most, and small for those who have little. Let's do the opposite: we take from the ones that have the most, and give to those that have the least. There is a difference between legal and Community policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e389	The size goes to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e392	Listening to the Prime Minister today, I'm reminded of the episode of the red-green wheat-bread days out on a beach in this town, where the statement was that we have a majority, we don't have to negotiate, we can just act. At the moment, I feel that the government does not negotiate or act, at least not in relation to the Stortinget. It is possible that there is a lot going on in the government quarter – and in the drawers – but the government has allowed the opportunity to provide a supplement to its own budget to update it. It has allowed the occasion to go from itself to cooperation on the state budget here in Stortinget. That means we're going to adopt a state budget beyond Christmas that's not in line with reality out there. Now a majority government can allow itself not to listen to the opposition. And you might even allow yourself not to listen to the Society's Main Organization. But what's more serious is that you don't listen to the messages that come out among people. There's a big question – now we can put the tax relief aside, that's not what I'm talking about – about why in this situation we can't spend more money on public investment, on public maintenance tasks that everyone sees are neglected, that everyone sees needed, when we get free hands, free capacity in the construction industry. And if the Prime Minister does not listen to the Christian People's Party, he should at least listen to the trade union leaders. For the past two days, I have had meetings with the federal leaders of the Joint Confederation, the Trade Union Confederation, Industry Energy, and this is a unanimous demand that a contingency plan be put in place, among other things. contain part of these measures in the public sector. My question as to whether the Prime Minister has also intended to reject these demands from the trade movement.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e399	Firstly, I think we need to stress the following: the NHO, right-hand side in Norway, requires lower taxes on wealth anyway. They do so every year in all budgets, whether there are rises or falls. So when the right-hand side and the NHO are trying to use downtime to argue for a proposal they're for – no matter how often – it's not very credible. The second is that this debate illustrates that the opposition is shattering in all directions. So when you listen to the opposition, it's the way left and right think that we're not going to spend any more oil money. The Christian People's Party believes that we should spend some oil money, while the Right believes that it leads to increased interest rates. And the Progress Party thinks we're going to spend a lot more oil money. So listening to the opposition is a demanding exercise when they say completely different things in relation to the basic message of economic policy. Of course, when it comes to preparedness, we're going to have it. We are ready, we are developing preparedness – but not just that: we are acting. The important thing now is precisely the problem we see, that we lack funding for businesses, interest rates have been too high, financial institutions have not worked. That's why we put the measures there. Then there will be new and more measures. They will come on short notice, and they will come there and when they have the greatest effect in achieving the basic objective of securing jobs. I am glad that unemployment is now halved compared to the previous government. But that's exactly the winner, the amazing result we've achieved there, which is now threatened by the most serious financial crisis the world has seen since the 1930s. All good forces then have to be mobilised in order to dose, optimise the instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e408	I note that the Prime Minister does not answer the question. He's talking about taxes, even if I didn't ask about taxes. He's talking about the Right and the Left, although it was the Christian People's Party that raised the question. He does not want to deal with the question of how he puts himself to the demands of the trade union movement. That's the question I asked. What is the problem here is that for every week that goes without this contingency plan being implemented, we lose time in mitigating the effects of a highly increasing unemployment rate. For every week that goes by, the Prime Minister and the Government are given greater self-responsibility for the effects of the financial crisis. Although it has international reasons, there is a passiveness in mitigating the effects in Norway. It may be that things can be done quickly, but the Prime Minister has to go to the Stortinget, and the Stortinget is now dealing with the budget. The alternative is to get to Stortinget after New Year's. Then one month goes by, then another month goes by before it starts, and then we see the summer before the effect takes effect in Norwegian working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e417	First of all, there's no need to wait until summer. We can promote action on an ongoing basis. We have promoted measures on an ongoing basis, and many of the measures concerned, for example: securing the banking system can also come on this side of the turn of the year. Something's already come. We're now working on export finance. So that's not how we have to wait. On the contrary, it is most topical for new measures to come long before we see the revised national budget. I have already announced that we are working on new measures in relation to export finance and to ensure that credit and financial institutions for business work. When it comes to preparedness, I'm used to standing in Stortinget and being criticized for talking too much with the trade union movement. Now it's that I'm talking too little, listening too little. Well, I've talked a lot to them, many times, and I'm going to do it a lot in the future. What they are concerned about is a lower interest rate and a guarantee of access to credit for businesses. They are also concerned that we are prepared, that we have measures that can be implemented on short notice. We have measures, and they will be implemented on short notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e424	There will be follow-up questions – first Ulf Leirstein.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e427	I'm a little surprised by the tone the Prime Minister takes. In many matters of great importance, the Prime Minister has said during this great period that he is actually concerned about, for example, to make wide-ranging settlements, including: to ensure predictability. As we approach a choice and you can thus get into a different political situation in this room from the one you now have – although the Prime Minister certainly does not have faith in it, it can actually happen – it might be a good idea to have some predictability about the measures you are about to take to meet what the Prime Minister himself says is the most serious crisis since the 1930s. The Prime Minister also said in response to the Høybräten that it was important to mobilize all good forces. What the opposition is concerned about is that it might be appropriate to sit down and discuss some measures, which the Prime Minister was concerned about when the bank package was to be discussed and the opposition was invited in. Now I feel that the Prime Minister has gone into a defensive position and is not interested in discussing it. He indicates that we have a great deal of disagreement. Yes, we have great political disagreement, but it would actually have been possible to sit down and discuss some measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e435	I would like to discuss measures, but I think it is better to tackle the individual measures and then discuss them. So we have implemented measures to secure the banks. It is important to ensure jobs. Then we have implemented measures that contribute to the decline in interest rates. It also gradually beats for loan customers, for those concerned with housing debt and with the financing of investments in enterprises. I warn that we can also take new measures, especially in relation to the situation in export finance and the institutions that finance Norwegian business. We are open to take even more measures. We implement the measures and discuss them with the Stortinget. We propose to Stortinget, if that is the kind of action, whenever and where necessary. I am very much to discuss things, but first of all I am to do things, and this government has done and is going to do everything it can to mitigate the effects of the international financial crisis. Unemployment in Norway is expected to rise. Our task is to limit and counteract the increase. We have been facing the most serious economic crisis since the 1930s.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e444	Jan Tore Sanner – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e447	I record that the Prime Minister does not answer the questions he receives, neither those he received from Erna Solberg about taxes, nor what he received from Dagfinn Høybråten when it came to construction. The Prime Minister uses the same rhetoric in good times and in bad times — yes, he has used about the same rhetoric for almost ten years to reject specific questions. I have one specific question, which the Prime Minister has also received before today, and it is whether he can mention one single job saved by the increased taxes contained in the Government's draft budget. The Prime Minister claims that this is about tax incentives for the richest, but then he should listen, for example. Sigurd Kvikne. He runs a family-run hotel in Balestrand and says that this affects small and medium-sized enterprises, such as family-run hotels in District Norway. What jobs does the Prime Minister save through increased taxes?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e458	When 90 pst. by those who inherit a lower inheritance tax, there is no problem for the companies. Many of them are small enterprises that receive a lower inheritance tax. So it's at least an advantage, not a disadvantage, for the businesses. The second is that when we convert the taxes on wealth so that we remove a hole in the tax system, so that new business buildings get lower taxes — old business buildings that have been paid off, get a slightly higher tax — it contributes to increased activity in the construction industry. It doesn't understand right, because they're really just concerned with one thing, and that's giving tax relief to those who have the most from before. Conversion of property taxes stimulates investment in industrial buildings. Let's do it. Then to the unsocial profile. Right-hand taxation is that if you make $300,000, you get $870 in taxes. Serves 3 million. NOK, you get $96,030 in tax dollars. It is calculated in its own tables in the Right Tax Code. Unsocial Right-wing Policy, great tax relief to the rich, does not guarantee jobs, is unsocial – that is the only thing that is right in the matter of Right-wing tax policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e467	There was no answer to the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e472	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e475	Let me first express some understanding that the Prime Minister is pleased that there is disagreement between the parties also in the opposition. It's a human trait about him. Then I will give the Prime Minister the right to have his support in the opposition – at least in parts of the opposition – when it comes to upholding the rule of action and pursuing a tight policy. Left and Right agree with the Government that the jobs are no. 1 and 2 is to have a fiscal policy that underpins monetary policy, making interest rates as low as possible. It stimulates the economy across the board, and there's ice in the stomach for quite a long time, to make it work. And then we're going to disagree, because the number of jobs. 3 and 4 in my view is to take good care of the companies and therefore the owners of the companies, so that in difficult times they are encouraged to do the maximum to take care of the jobs in Norway, and not use this opportunity, which certainly many are going to have, to reduce faster, as they might otherwise have done, or to move out of the country, which perhaps the calculations suggest. Does the Prime Minister not understand this?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e484	I'm a little uncertain about what I should now understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e489	The holdings.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e494	In the case of enterprises, the companies say to me: lower interest rates. There's the representative Sponheim and I totally agree that the most important thing is to bring down interest rates in securing jobs. But then I think I have to say the following very clearly: No matter what kind of action a Norwegian government and a Norwegian raise is taking, unemployment will increase in many Norwegian companies. For example, those who produce car parts will find it difficult to sell car parts when car production falls heavily. That problem is not possible for the state to solve, so what we're talking about is to limit the damage, to limit the problems we're going to experience as a result of the international financial crisis, and then we're talking about creating new jobs to replace those that are lost. However, in that transition, unemployment will increase in Norway. It is not possible to prevent, when we close down businesses, that there will be some leave. So our task is to create new jobs. We do that through the budget, through monetary policy, through what we do for the banks, and through new measures that will come.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e499	Bjørg Tørersdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e503	Today we could listen to the news and read in the newspapers that Norwegian municipalities are going to fail in tax revenue, they have lost money on stock speculation, and there may be 4.5 billion dollars less in municipalities. Right now, more than half of the councillors sit and make suggestions for next year's use of money in the municipalities. They propose to cut teaching positions, nursing positions in the care of the elderly, so they suggest a welfare pact because of the situation that has arisen. The Prime Minister must agree that it would have been wise right now, in order to avoid this, to increase transfers to the municipalities in order to compensate, and in addition, because there is an increase in the capacity of construction – we know – to increase the possibilities for municipalities to use this free capacity to clean up churches and schools, to build kindergartens and to build hospitals. We can do that by increasing the loan framework and increasing the grant schemes, so that we don't let unemployment get stuck at a high level.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e508	I fully agree that having a strong community economy is important, both to solve welfare tasks and to keep unemployment down. As for the tax access to municipalities, we have no figures to show that it goes down. On the contrary, it will be published at 1 p.m. Today, 10 new figures from the Statistical Centre, which show that the tax intake in 2008 is even higher than that we assumed, and that is what we are taking into account in 2009. So the municipalities didn't get any lower tax estimate, so on the contrary, there are things that suggest that the tax estimate is actually a little higher than you originally thought. So there's a lot of uncertainty, and the calculation published today that you can get $4.5 billion less, is based on the fact that we're bombing as much on the 2009 estimate as the previous government did in 2003. Well, our goal is not to bomb as much as the previous government, but it is precisely the great uncertainty that makes it important to follow, important to take action – and if it turns out that there is a dramatic failure in municipal tax revenue, then there is an argument for doing something. But that's not the case now. That could be the case in the future, and then we'll have to keep up with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e515	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e518	The Prime Minister seems so rehearsed at his particular lesson today that I will not continue on that track, which I had originally thought, but try to see what is now happening in Norwegian policy, in a slightly different perspective. Let me say that I think it's good, but also in time, that the Prime Minister is present in his first spontaneous question hour this quite crisis-stricken harvest that we've had. When we look at the management of this crisis in the countries around us, we see how the policy has changed a lot. The views of the voters and citizens on what is important have changed a lot, and we see how leadership in different countries has taken considerable action, I would say many with a considerable voice of leadership, involving parliaments and various actors in finding collective solutions to a crisis facing countries. I think that's the basis for saying that there's probably not all of us in this house, and maybe not outside this house either, who feel that you've been part of the same dialogue to find common solutions to deal with the crisis. At times, the opposition in its proposals on how to deal with the crisis, in part proposals made by the Prime Minister’s foreign party traps, has been met with polemics at the border of the petty. I have to say that I got a little aha experience when I saw that last week the Prime Minister was quoted as saying, ‘Our draft state budget will be adopted in the Stortinget, so to speak, unchanged’ – before all the budgets, alternative budget proposals had emerged, while citizens, businesses, organisations went out and out of this house to make arguments in the name of democracy. I know we're in a minority, there's no doubt about it, but there's something about being part of a democracy where one feels that minority arguments too are being heard, and especially in such a situation. It could be tempting to rewrite a quotation and say: a prime minister who makes his parliament small cannot expect anything big. What reflections does the Prime Minister have on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e527	I am concerned that, although there is a majority government that can get through all cases without discussing any of them with the opposition, on important and decisive issues, we will discuss with the opposition and come up with agreed solutions. We have done so, although we have a majority, in the climate policy, in the pension agreement, in the private school agreement, in the agreement on bets for the elderly, and also in the case of what has been the big package so far, namely the package of measures to secure banks and facilitate lower interest rates. Also there we made a consensus here in Stortinget with the opposition. So having dialogue with the opposition, going by a wider majority than what we have just through the majority of government parties alone, is something this government has shown that it has both the will and the ability to, and I think it strengthens Norwegian policy that we get to that kind of majority. So I think the representative of Sponheim is aware that, as far as the state budget is concerned, the way we adopt the budget in the Stortinget is so that you can't take out individual elements and make a deal about it, you have to make a deal about the entire budget. And when you see how much the opposition cracks, from the Advancement Party plus 30 billion kr via the Christian People's Party plus 6 billion kr to the Left and Right who have zero in increased oil money usage, it says a little bit about how demanding it is to make a deal – with an opposition that cracks in all directions, and where two parties, Left and Right, think that what the other two parties are doing is leading to an increase in interest. The most important thing now is to contribute to lower interest rates. The fact that there is no agreement on the state budget does not mean that there is no willingness to settle and have a broad consensus on many other things, also linked to what had to happen with new measures to deal with the banking crisis, or the financial crisis, and the setback in the Norwegian economy. The State budget is not suitable for a single settlement; it must be a total settlement. There is no basis for that, but many other settlements I invite to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e538	I very much agree with the Prime Minister that he probably has the most decent opposition in Norway's history, which extends far into finding solutions even if we are not invited to it to a great extent. But that's really not what my point is. This fall we've seen it quite clearly: the Prime Minister says it doesn't matter what happens in the Grand Duchy, it doesn't matter what arguments are being made, because we've decided. Our majority is done. Yeah, we know that. But we've had a very special harvest. Uncertainty has been high. It has obviously been important for many to make arguments that they believe the Government has not taken into account. Then I believe that the Prime Minister should have respect for his parliament – and the Government is still leaving Parliament, and not from Youngstorget or elsewhere – and that he respects the fact that there is a clean treatment going on in the Stortinget, and does not conclude until the Stortinget has decided on what the budget is. That's what this is about, and the Prime Minister still has the opportunity to get in a good way. It is possible to land even though the sleep is not always as nice!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e545	First, I want to say that it is very decent that a minority accepts that they are allowed to change the policy of the majority. That's what happens when we make a deal with the minority, that's that the majority of the Biggest change their policy to adapt to a minority. And it's very decent of the minority that they accept it. It is that the system we have for budgetary decisions here in Stortinget, makes it impossible to make a partial settlement, you have to have a deal about everything, including the use of oil money and each frame. I think that both Sponheim and I and Solberg and everyone else know that we have a gap from plus 30 billion kroner in oil money, which then finances a lot of what the Progress Party wants, 6 billion kroner from the Christian People's Party to zero from you – you could start by trying to make a common settlement. Good luck, I'll say! You won't be able to do that, and I don't think you're going to try on us either – when you can't agree with each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e552	The President reminds us that all speeches should be addressed to the President. There will be three follow-up questions – first the representative Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e557	It is absolutely right that a majority government is responsible, and has to take responsibility for, the very demanding times we're in, and will get more of. It is strange that the Prime Minister and the Government reject every proposal that is launched, whether they come from the different opposition parties in Stortinget, or they come from business, or even from the trade movement, to which the Workers' Party normally has close ties. It must be reasonable especially for a prime minister from the Labour Party, from the social democrats, to stand in the Storting and warn increasing unemployment without looking to be able to do anything about it. What I'm really asking is what it feels like for the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e564	It is a very good feeling to lead a government that does everything that is necessary, everything that is possible to secure Norwegian jobs. I'm proud to lead a government that is responsible for halving unemployment, but I'm also proud to lead a government like early so that now we would face economic downtime, an international financial crisis, the deepest economic downturn since the 1930s, which threatens just the low unemployment we have in Norway. And when I say that the time off is going to grow, it's because I mean you're going to tell the truth. No one has promoted measures that are capable of saving, for example: those engaged in carpentry production. When car production falls in our neighboring country, when half of what we make here in the country is sold abroad, and almost everything we make of car parts is sold abroad, then we will experience downtime in that type of industry. Then our job is to create new jobs, create new businesses, make a change, which means that those who lose their jobs don't go out of work for long, but get into work. We're doing that job. We need to secure the workplaces.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e571	It is probably a historical fact that the Workers' Party experiences a more responsible opposition than the corresponding bourgeois governments experience when the Workers' Party is in opposition. I have to say that it has surprised me a little that the Prime Minister did not accept the extended hand when I asked for a consultation meeting on what we should do in the future in relation to this crisis, and that we also accepted the small proposal that we might be able to discuss a timetable for when it was natural to look at additional measures – because we have therefore not disagreed on monetary policy. I've been thinking about why, and I think this questioning has proved it to me. This is because the Labour Party and the Prime Minister are not primarily to secure jobs. It is less important for them than to secure the government's own cohesion, or to maintain the fight against the rich against the election struggle. The change of lines I now saw between the Prime Minister and Jan Tore Sanner, proved the vulgar election campaign the Prime Minister has made.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e581	The right answer is that I read from their own tax tables. I think it's right to say that there's unsocial tax policy when the Right proposes that someone who earns over $3 million. NOK 96 000 in the tax bill, while one who makes NOK 300000 gets NOK 870 in the tax bill. That's what I call an unsocial profile. It's a precise description of what the right does. And it does the right whether it's downtime or risetime. The right is too much tax relief for those who earn the most, anyway. And now one tries to use the financial crisis as a pretext to find a new argument for an unsocial tax policy. The Workers' Party and the Government are opposed to an unsocial tax policy, whether there are ups and downs. What we're not against is reducing the tax for them with lower and medium incomes. We have. We can do that again, but there is something quite different than the social tax policy at the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e588	But you're going to vote against the lower tax next Thursday.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e593	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e596	It's just noticing that the Prime Minister sees no reason to change anything in the state budget, despite opposition objections or open hearings here in Stortinget. In the last Question Time, the Prime Minister's Minister of Culture was here. He has increased his cross post by between 200 and 300 pst. at its disposal for the coming year. In the Questionnaire, he said, ‘There is no difference between dealing with this in the hall. The red-green government has a majority, and cultural life is just as happy with the money if they are adopted by the red-green majority in the Stortinget, or if they come from a variety of places on the cultural budget.’ Is it really that the budgetary process is quite pointless, that we could have turned the entire state budget into a large stock item that we could then have allowed the government to distribute over the year out of consideration? Or does the Prime Minister not share the view of the Minister for Culture that this is how the budgetary processes should be?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e608	We could not and should never convert the state budget into a large stock item. We should have a stock exchange, and it should be larger than the previous government left behind, which was irresponsiblely low. But we should have a budget that is specified by post and chapter. Budgets are designed both before and after they are presented, and in a majority government there is a very close dialogue, a lot of discussion of the budget before it is presented. There's been some adjustments here in Stortinget. What I am pleased about is that the Left has a responsible framework for its budget and that the Left agrees with the Government that we must contribute to lower interest rates. But then they disagree with large parts of the rest of the opposition, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, which is supposed to spend more money.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e615	The size goes to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e618	It seems almost as if the Prime Minister has gone into conflict. There is almost an echo in the hall today, where the Prime Minister has repeated himself seven to eight times. I think it would have been an advantage in the context that the Prime Minister had laid down the bureaucracy file that he has in front of him, and perhaps tried to make some assessments from his own point of view instead of reading from the directory every single time he gets a question. I also record that the Prime Minister talks a lot about export finance etc. The Prime Minister also says that action is constantly being taken at a rapid pace. For me, it's almost like we're approaching a breakthrough; we're just missing the hole now to get the Prime Minister to tell us what actions you're talking about. It could have been interesting for a company — if it can be said that way — because the Prime Minister said earlier today that he was busy doing what the companies are asking for. Then it's interesting, for the largest company, if I'm allowed to group all the companies together – here we're talking about 1,900 small and medium-sized enterprises with 24,500 employees – have sent a letter to the government asking for some measures; they're not asking for tax relief, they're asking for measures to keep the jobs going. These machinery operators are now at risk of having to leave 30-40 pst in the next six months. in connection with, as the Government has replied to me in a letter, that there are a lot of projects that could have been undertaken with increased funding already this year, i.e. projects that are at risk of being stopped or that are at risk of not being implemented, because this Government does not act within, among other things. infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e625	First, a very serious confession, and that's that I've said the same thing several times. I've been saying the same thing almost all hour. The reason for this is that I have received the same question several times, and then I believe it is a strength that I say the same when I get the same question several times. It's not a weakness. I don't even have to read the folder because – what should I say – yes, we've heard it. The second is that one of the sectors we know is going to be affected by the financial crisis and the international setback is the construction industry. That's absolutely right. It is also one of the reasons why we are committed to making the banking system work, because they finance important projects in construction. That's one of the reasons why we're busy getting our interest rates down. Although I know that many people in the industry disagree with that, it's actually what we're doing with the property tax, which is reducing the maximum rate from 80 to 60 pst. in new business buildings, making it more profitable, anything else similar, to invest in new business buildings with that system than with the current system. So there are measures that all contribute to increased activity in the construction industry, in addition to the road investments, renovation projects, public construction coming into the state budget and starting to work from January 2009. But then I also think the construction industry is an industry where we have to admit that it is impossible to continue it just as it is today. First of all, there have always been a lot of fluctuations in the industry. Secondly, the level of employment has been around 150 000. At least it was in 2005, and it's been around it. Now it's been up to 190 000, which is a very, very high level. So that also the construction industry has to invest in conversions like many other parts of Norwegian business, I think we just have to say right out, because everything else would not be telling the truth. But it's just managing the transitions, managing it to create new jobs for those who lose their jobs, which is one of the keys to dealing with this crisis we're now facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e634	I record the Prime Minister accepting 30-40 pst. In spite of the fact that the Minister of Transport in this government has confirmed to me in a letter that if the input of funds to the construction industry had been increased, rv could have continued. 3 in Østerdalen, E18 in Buskerud, E18 in Vestfold, E39 over Stord, E39 in Hordaland, E134 Haukeli tunnels, etc., etc. – a number of projects. If this government had wanted to keep these people working, they could do so with measures and already this year added extra funds. Then it is that the Prime Minister refers to the 2009 budget. It is with the background of the 2009 budget that the machine operators have given these dramatic signals to the Government. The budget for 2009 will lead to 30-40 pst. leave and unemployment within this industry. So the budget is not good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e641	There were several measures I mentioned, which we are taking to create activity in the construction industry, but I stress that that industry must also be prepared for conversion, like many other Norwegian industries. In the case of construction, construction or road, we are increasing transport investment by over 2 billion kroner – 2.3 billion kroner is well – in the 2009 budget. In other words, in total, we are over 4 billion higher than the level promised by the previous government in its national transport plan. This is a significant increase. Then comes a national transport plan in the new year, where we have notified tens of billions in further efforts. So here there's going to be more money for transportation. We're going to invest in transportation in a magnitude greater than this society has ever seen, and we've ever experienced. So here's a lot of traffic in the years to come. It's good for everyone who takes the train and drives the car, but it's also good for everyone who makes railway sleepers, lays the railway and builds roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e650	There will be follow-up questions – first Svein Fleet.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e654	The problem is that the right does not know any other means than tax relief. The problem is that the Prime Minister rejects everything that has to do with tax relief. We have been in favour of, for example, our alternative budget. increasing the loan facility, as a contribution to the downtime we face. I hear the Prime Minister travels a lot around the country. Then he probably heard that many places where commercial property is no longer in business, it is a huge drop in value. It often happens in construction. Then, after today's debate, I know that the Prime Minister believes that tax relief goes largely to the rich. That's why I'm not going to ask about tax relief. I hope not to be told anything about it either. What I hope to hear about, on the other hand, is why it is now important to impose a significant increase in the tax on commercial property for thousands of companies that are fighting against order drought, permitations and cancellations.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e663	I realized that the question was about taxes, but when you don't want to hear anything about taxes, it's a challenge to answer the question. But I'll take the chance anyway. What's the point, is that we have tax rates that are currently a maximum of 80 pst. of market value. We'll lower them to 60 pst. The buildings that are up in the max stroke are the new ones. So when we increase in other areas of property taxation, that means that new business buildings will enjoy a roof that's lowered from 80 to 60 pst. New establishments may thus receive lower taxes, while old ones may receive increased taxes. Old buildings are built, new buildings are to be built. So if you're busy building new, this is a very good conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e670	Christian Tybring-Gjedde – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e673	In the government budget for next year, the government is based on the following forecasts: growth in the domestic economy of 2 p.p., growth in oil investment of 5 p.p., growth in household consumption of 2.5 p.p., 5 p.p., growth in unemployment of only one quarter to three quarters and growth in employment of 10,000 persons. They also say that there should be a strong dollar price for the rest of the year. The value of the State pension fund – abroad will be NOK 2800 billion, according to the Government, i.e. approx. NOK 1 000 billion more than it is today, the real growth in municipal income is at 3 p.m., decline in housing investment of only 2 p.m. and decline in corporate investment of only 2.5 pst. Absolutely none – none – believe in these predictions. The Prime Minister himself has confirmed that he does not believe in these forecasts. Why, then, is the Storting invited to adopt a budget based on forecasts that even the Prime Minister thinks are wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e680	There is considerable uncertainty about economic development. Therefore, there is also considerable uncertainty about forecasts both nationally and internationally. What we now experience is that almost weekly — almost daily — new estimates are coming for the development of the international economy. That is to say, all forecasts internationally are constantly subject to review. It is also quite right that the forecasts we are now receiving for the international economy are constantly being downgraded. It underlines the seriousness of the economic crisis, and it underlines and confirms that we are facing a significant economic setback. For the first time since 1945, there has been a fall in the rich world’s value creation. It's something completely new, and it's very dramatic. This will affect Norway because we sell so much of what we make to the rest of the world. How it will affect Norway and how much it will affect Norway is thus highly uncertain. That is why the Government believes that we should put measures in place there – and when – that is necessary. We have put in place comprehensive measures. We are prepared and ready to implement new measures whenever and where necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e687	We go to the last main question – Inge Wohnning.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e690	This government has made one important effort for jobs in this country: it has employed hundreds of new information workers, i.e. political sellers. That's an effort, too. After last week's spontaneous questioning time and this I understand that the most important part of the job for these is to train the government councils sent to the Stortinget, in how they should avoid getting hurt in order to answer the questions asked by the Stortinget. Since this is the last question in this spontaneous question hour, I hope the Prime Minister will make an exception and try to answer it. Today’s class struggle has the whole front page: ‘Norway’s agreement with the EU is going on. Of course, it is a simplification, as all tabloid headlines, but all arrows point towards Iceland moving out of the agreement they have with the EU in the coming months. All Norwegian experts agree that if Norway remains on the EFTA side of this Agreement for all practical purposes alone, the EEA Agreement will not be in its present form. Today, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Norwegian fishing community advises to think carefully about what this situation will mean. It is a good advice, but it would also have been a very good advice from a foreign minister to his own government, that he had asked the Government to think through this. In Norway, the government is responsible for Norway’s relations with other countries, and in this area it is urgent. My question to the Prime Minister is: How does the Government work on this issue, and how will the Stortinget be informed and taken along by the Government in the deliberation on how Norway will solve this challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e701	Let me first thank you for an important question. There have been many warnings that Iceland is going to seek EU membership and thus leave the EFTA pillar of the EEA Agreement and move on to the EU pillar. It is clear that if Iceland does so, it will affect EFTA and EEA cooperation. So far, the different alerts up over the years have proved not to lead to Iceland actually applying, and it's too early now to say whether the debate you have in Iceland actually leads to Iceland applying. After applying, they shall negotiate and, where appropriate, reach an agreement which they recommend and which causes them to register. Norwegian experience suggests that it is not obvious that even if you apply and negotiate an agreement, you become a member for that reason. So there's uncertainty, and it's important that we follow it closely. It would have an impact on the EEA Agreement if Iceland were to do what someone thinks they should do, namely register. Therefore, there is an ongoing assessment of it — and of course of course also in the case of investigations and assessments of how it can affect us. If they apply, and if they become members, we will also require further assessments of what it can mean, including documentation. in relation to what kind of fisheries agreement we are going to have. I believe that the government's responsibility and duty is to inform Stortinget continuously. We can do that through the extended Foreign Affairs Committee, and we can do that through plenary meetings and documents to the Stortinget. It's really up to the Storting to formulate how it wants to be informed, and then we're going to inform. Right now there's not so much to inform about, because none of us know with certainty what Iceland is going to do. But we're going to follow closely. We will keep up-to-date, and of course we will also continue to assess the impact on the EEA Agreement of any Icelandic EU application.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e710	I thank the Prime Minister for the answer. As I said, according to Norwegian law, the government has full responsibility for Norway's relations with other countries. When we see a situation where, in the Financial Times, Iceland's prime minister – of all places – tells the world that the party he is running is changing its view, there is every reason to take it seriously. All the arrows point in the direction that this is going to happen very quickly. Then it would be directly irresponsible if the Norwegian government did not think through that scenario. Of course, it's not a hundred percent sure it happens, but at least you have to have a clear idea of how we from the Norwegian side will handle this. The problem is that, as far as relations with the EU and European policy are concerned, we currently have no government, but we have three parties that happen to live under the same roof and that have agreed that this should not be done at all. Does the Prime Minister not see that this is a problem for Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e717	I think it's a very precise description that this is about thinking through a scenario – in the sense that it's a possible, but far from safe development that Iceland is looking for. Then we have to negotiate first, and then we have to see what kind of agreement they have in many areas, but especially on fish, before we can say anything for sure about what it means for the EEA Agreement and for Norway. But that one should think through it and analyze it, even before that happens, I fully agree, and it does so on an ongoing basis, and we can do it more thoroughly and more extensively. So I agree. With regard to the EU question itself, it is quite right that this government will not seek EU membership. This government builds its relationship with Europe on the EEA Agreement, which must also be done by a future government, where the Right participates with the Christian People's Party and the Left. So to put it this way, there's probably one challenge more have, that you have to cooperate with parties that are absolutely against Norwegian membership.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e724	There will be follow-up questions – first Dagfinn Højbrätten.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e728	Let me remind Europeans from all kinds of parties that there is an overwhelming majority against Norwegian EU membership in Norwegian opinion, and there is an even greater majority in the EEA Agreement. The EEA Agreement is important for Norway. There is also reason to recall that the EU has not been at the forefront of creating package solutions in the financial crisis. The governments of the Member States have done so. As far as Iceland is concerned, they have also noticed that there are EU countries in which they have really come to grips with the difficult situation they have encountered. So I'm glad that the Prime Minister on this occasion is not going to get involved in speculation about the EEA Agreement, which is so important to Norway. I am also pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs rejected the play of the European Movement – or games – on an EU request from Norway. I would recommend that the Prime Minister take a good look at this question and expect him to confirm it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e735	Yeah, we're gonna follow a bad course. We build our relationship on the EEA Agreement. This is a good deal for Norway. That is a good deal for political Norway, so I think we should take good care of it. You can wonder, and you can discuss different possible outcomes, but it's only when something actually happens that we know the details that we can actually relate to it. It is still very uncertain whether Iceland is applying, and it is also very uncertain whether that application results in membership, and what that membership looks like in relation to, for example, its membership. fisheries. So once again: follow closely is the keyword, but it is also important to take care of the EEA Agreement that is important for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e742	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e745	Active European policy requires, first and foremost, that today's system be in the forefront and not in the back. If you sit and wait until everything is ready, the train has also gone in many ways. I would like to remind you that during this government, which has announced an active European policy, we have seen most of the omissions of directives to be implemented, in terms of deadlines and some other problems. We may not have seen the activity we expected to see. In the case that is now under way, it is such that a fast-track journey is speedy at the moment when an EU application is on the table. It is two and a half months until the Independence Party has made its decision. If they decide what would be the Bolverket against having an EU application, then there is an EU request on the table. Therefore, I would like to stress that it is extremely important that we now begin to identify the problems that actually arise if Iceland joins, and that we do not wait until we see a negotiated solution. It's too late – we have to be before that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e752	I believe that we should look at, study, evaluate, closely monitor what could be the consequences of any Icelandic application. I think one should also be prepared that uncertain things may happen, that it may become a reality. So I'd like to underline that. We're going to do that, and we're going to be able to step up. It is part of the ongoing work, among other things. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to assess the type of outcome and what it may mean for Norway. So there we're going to be in advance. But starting to act, or acting, can't be done until you actually know that it happens. In the debate on domestic policy, the challenge is that the Right is clear on one issue. It's that they want to rule with the Left and Christian People's Party. I guess it's an illustration that it's a demanding domestic policy issue, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e759	So the oral question procedure is changed, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e764	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative Kari Lise Holmberg to the finance minister, will be raised by the representative Jan Tore Sanner. Questions 8 and 9 from the representatives of Per Roar Bredvold and Ivar Kristiansen, respectively, to the Minister for the Environment and Development, are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 11, from the representative Inge Wohnung to the Minister of Health and Welfare, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 16, from the representative of Gunnar Gundersen to the Minister of Knowledge, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e782	We begin as usual the Questionnaire with questions from Svein Flätten to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e788	I have this question for the Minister of Finance: ‘More government councils, with Prime Minister, Minister of Finance and Minister of Industry at the head, have gone hard on banks that, after Norway’s Bank’s last reduction in the interest rate, have not reduced interest rates in their banks. This appears to be an attempt to push the banks into an interest rate decision appropriate to the Government. What information is there that the Government and the Government have on the performance and soundness of the banks that means that the Government knows better than the banks themselves what is the correct level of interest for the individual bank?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e797	Let me start by saying that I understand that banks' borrowing rates rise as banks' borrowing costs rise. However, it is important that lending rates are not set more than on the basis of which they are based, and I also expect interest rates to be reduced when bank borrowing costs are reduced, as they do now. It is against this background that I have encouraged banking customers to exercise consumer power over their bank if they think the level of interest is unreasonable. Norwegian banking customers are very loyal. I have said a little funnyly that many switch banks less often than they change spouses, and look at the bank as part of the family and not as something they have a customer relationship with. That is why we have taken many initiatives to ensure that banking customers are also more demanding and informed. The Financial Portal allows you to compare the price of the services of the different banks and to use the information here either as a basis for negotiation with the bank you already have a customer relationship with or to change the bank. Banks compete for deposits, deposits and loans. It is important for businesses and households that there is transparency about what individual banks offer their customers. This encourages banks to operate effectively and prevents banks from taking excessive interest margins from households and businesses. Deposits from customers finance a total of close to two thirds of bank lending. What we know about banks' interest and expenses in general is this: the average deposit rate has increased by 1,68 percentage points in the 12 months up to the end of the first half of this year, while the average lending rate in the same period increased by 1,83 percentage points. The margin of interest of the banks, i.e. the difference between the average lending rate and the average deposit rate thus increased by 0,15 percentage points. Measured as a percentage of average administrative capital, provisional accounts for the period up to and including the third quarter of this year show that the total interest income of banks has increased slightly more than the total interest cost. The majority of banks’ financing needs in addition to deposits are covered by borrowings in the securities markets and, in particular, bonds. In the case of borrowing such loans, it is common for banks to enter into so-called interest rate swaps, which convert fixed-rate loans into floating-rate loans. Interest rate swaps are concluded because bank loans to customers are mainly granted at floating rates. This practice also causes changes in the shorter money market rates to affect banks’ costs of existing long-term deposits. The three-month money market rate, the NIBOR rate, as it is called, is often used as an indicator both of how much banks have to pay to borrow between themselves and of the conditions of the bond market. This rate has traditionally been around 0.2 to 0.3 percentage points above Norway’s bank’s interest rate, but the turmoil in financial markets has led to a significant increase in the difference over the past few weeks. During periods, the difference has been more than 2 percentage points in the last months. In addition, the market for interbank loans has worked very poorly, and there have been several days with little or no trade. Norway’s Bank has provided far more liquidity to the banking system than usual to improve conditions. The Bank of Norway has also extended the maturity and reduced the collateral requirements for loans to banks. The government's actions against the banks, which the Stortinget concluded on 24 October, will be undertaken in a short time. These measures, together with the lowering of the interest rate on 16 and 29 October by the Bank of Norway, contribute to lower money market interest rates. Several banks have therefore decided to cut interest rates to their customers or have failed to initiate notified increases. I'm glad, because we have to expect customers to share in the rate decrease we're now seeing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e823	I thank you for your answer. My question did not depend on how often you should exchange neither a bank nor a spouse, to put it this way. I think that people should be free to do what they want, even though the Council of State thinks that you have to change banks often. But that was not the question. I actually see that in the answer the Minister of Finance has, in a sense, defended the difference in interest rates that has arisen, through his technical points. My question really arose as to why the Minister of Finance and others in the Government went out so badly against the banks to pressure them to make business judgements other than what might have been right. It's not just the residential customers who depend on the banks. There are a lot of companies that are going to have loans, which depend on the bank making money, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e832	My answer can also be read as a warm defense for marriage. I would like to come back to that on another occasion, but now to the answer to the representative Fleet. I think it's a touching concern for the soundness of the banks The fleet shows up. We depend on having solid banks. We also rely on customers not only seeing that we are able to make the financial market and the cash flow work again, but that they themselves get a share in the decline in interest rates. It is because these are important signals, not only in terms of the decisions taken by individuals, which have a bearing on how the activity is going to be in the Norwegian economy in the future, and for the workplaces, but also in terms of the type of decisions taken by enterprises. A lot of what we're struggling with now is trust and uncertainty about the future. Then the banks are absolutely central. The message that goes to customers when banks follow the decline in interest rates and do not fall for the temptation to take higher margins than before is enormously important in view of how the labour market develops further.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e841	My concern for the banks is far from touching. But I'm concerned that they should have good soundness, and that they should also make money, because it's going to benefit both the customers, the companies and everyone who relies on funding projects. And so is the fact that the board of directors and management of the banks in Norway are mostly private businesses, even though the state owns a part of DnB NOR. My great concern is once again – and I have not received an answer to that today – whether the Minister of Finance thinks it is right, for example, to do so. the Minister of Finance or the Prime Minister to act so strongly to influence the business decisions made in, for example: the Board of Directors or the Executive Board of such large banks as, for example: DnB NOR, which so many people depend on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e848	We're going to have solid banks, and we have solid banks, which have had moderate losses and good earnings in recent years. That is why we do not have the problem that many other countries have, namely that they are struggling with banks with poor soundness. Our problem is liquidity. Neither the Prime Minister nor I have assigned some governments to some banks, but we have pointed out the very clear challenge that banks have. It's to give customers a share of the decline in interest rates we've seen, both through the fall in the interest rate and in the rate of money market interest. These are expectations that we have for the banks, which are of great importance for the evolution of the labour market situation. It is important that this signal departs from us, from the bank customers, etc. Of course, the board of directors should balance in order to also operate sound banking. But the banks also depend on trust, and this is a crucial issue in terms of confidence in the banks.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e858	This question, from the representative Kari Lise Holmberg to the Minister of Finance, will be raised by the representative Jan Tore Sanner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e861	On behalf of the representative Kari Lise Holmberg I will ask the following question: ‘The Telemark tax administration has recently decided that a private care company should no longer be exempt from VAT on its non-taxable social service, despite the fact that the municipality takes individual decisions on those receiving the services. The decision, which may also have retroactive effect, will result in the closure of the holding. On 1 January 2004, the Ministry of Finance introduced a mechanism to prevent discrimination between public and private service producers. Will the Council of State now clean up this matter and ensure a level playing field throughout the country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e870	As I explained in my reply to the representative Kari Lise Holmberg on written question No. 1491 of 5 September 2008, an exemption from VAT has been made for social services. The municipality, which under the Social Services Act is obliged to provide such services, may choose to provide the services itself or purchase them from private service providers. Where a social service is left to a private enterprise, turnover must take place on the basis of a municipal award decision in order for the service to be exempt from VAT. In addition, the municipality must actually choose to buy the services in question from a private sector rather than to carry them out itself. In these cases, it will result from the agreement with the municipality to whom the private enterprise can provide exempted social services and the services concerned. In some cases, it could be defined in advance in the contract to whom and under which conditions the private enterprise can provide services on behalf of the municipality. In that case, the municipality's decision on a case-by-case basis will not be required. But it is the municipality, and not the caregiver, who has to agree with the private enterprise in order for the service to be exempted from VAT. After I have been informed, the company to which the representative refers has received notification from the tax office about the after-calculation of VAT. This is because the company in question has not demonstrated that it has entered into such an agreement with the municipality. However, no final decision has been taken in this case. I am therefore asking for an understanding that I cannot go into a specific matter that is still under administrative treatment. However, I would like to point out that in this case there is a question of calculating VAT on the services traded by a private enterprise and not of applying the general VAT compensation scheme for the local government sector introduced on 1 January 2004. As mentioned in my reply to the representative’s question of 5 September 2008, the legislation in this area has not been amended since the introduction of the universal service charge obligation in 2001. Since it is important that the legislation is practised in the same way, the Tax Directorate was asked on 23 October 2008 to clarify the legal status in order to ensure non-discrimination.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e881	I understand, of course, that the Minister of Finance has problems going into a matter that is still pending. Nevertheless, it is possible for the Minister of Finance to do something about this legislation, if it is unclear and can be interpreted in such a way that a private care company that should have been promised actually has to shut down its activities because of this. It is sometimes the case that public authorities are unable to solve all the challenges in the care sector alone. We need private actors, like the care business in Telemark County. I would like to stress that there are tasks here in connection with the municipality's taking individual decisions relating to people, but it is of course an interpretation question of having to have a separate letter of assignment from the municipality. My question is: does the Minister of Finance want us to have private care companies that, in line with municipal enterprises, can provide that type of service?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e890	The legislation under which the tax rate is to interpret the issue of VAT related to private services in this area has been established since 2001. So it's exactly the same law that applied when the Right was in the government itself, and when the Right had the Minister of Finance himself. The code is based on the conclusion of an agreement between the municipality and the private provider, and not between individuals and the private provider. I have not had any plans to change or make any restrictions on the VAT legislation, so that there is an opening for municipalities to use private operators in addition to the offer they normally make. But I don't want to interfere with the interpretation of how this code is now, and I have no further signals to come into this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e897	Let me just draw attention to the fact that this case was cleared up by the former Minister of Finance, Per-Kristian Foss, which meant that the care company we are now talking about was refunded VAT that had been paid. So here's the tax rate that now sticks chains in the wheels and makes it harder for this company to push on. What I see as the central question here is not whether there should be non-discrimination between private and municipal, or whether there should be individual decisions, but whether the private enterprise needs a separate letter of assignment from the municipality in order to be exempt from VAT. Then my question is: does the Minister of Finance want to make it possible for individuals and municipalities to be treated in a non-discriminatory manner in such a way that they do not need this own letter of assignment from the municipality, but simply that it is based on individual decisions relating to persons, that the person himself may choose to purchase the service either from the municipality or from the private sector, and that they may be treated in a non-discriminatory way?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e906	I have no plans to make any changes to this legislation. Now this case, which is a matter of how today's legislation is to be understood, is for treatment in an underlying establishment. So I'm waiting for the outcome of that treatment, and then we might come back to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e915	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘According to local media surveys, ‘National tourist road’ has used 6.3 million out of 15 million. kr for planning purposes in connection with the Atlantic route as a national tourist road. In the case of long-suffered fishing bridges, which are, inter alia, an important road safety measure along the national road, there is no money for them without, among other things, the municipalities spending their funds in a difficult financial situation. What does the Council of State think about this use of money, and should not the bridges be financed by government appropriations?"
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e924	The government is taking part in its tourism strategy ‘Valueful experiences’ in order to fully market the tourist attraction National tourist paths from 2012. This suggests that high-quality tourist road measures have been implemented on all the 18 sections covered by the project. The characteristic shall be exciting architecture in good interaction with a great natural experience, which has great emphasis both internationally and nationally. This way of strengthening Norway’s competitiveness in terms of making tourers use Norway as their holiday destination is the main task of the National Tourism Roads project. In 2005, the State Road Administration found it right to await investment in new measures along the Atlantic Road. The background for this was the concern about the development of natural quality along the ‘road in the sea’ as a result of large development plans, with offshore wind farms outside the route as particularly critical. At the same time, the project made it clear that one would complete actions and plan new actions, so that they could be launched when it was decided whether the Atlantic route would maintain the natural quality that can only be achieved by the route as a national tourist road. Planning comes before construction, and the State Road Service has followed up, in accordance with its previous forecast, planning measures of more than 40 million. kr. Future main staging sites on the island of Ildhus and Sandvika together with the planning of two-sided fishing bridges along Myrberholmen Bru are the main measures. In the summer of 2008, it was decided that no concession will be granted for the construction of offshore wind farms outside the Atlantic route and the implementation of new measures has been incorporated into the project’s action programme. I would like to make it clear that, on a general basis, there is no automatic link between national tourism routes and renewable energy. I am aware that Myrberberholmbrua along the Atlantic route is one of the most pleasant bridges in More and Romesdal as a fishing area. There is no doubt that this is a very unfortunate situation in relation to road safety, and something that should have been cleaned up in the long run. kr, which, unfortunately, has not been accommodated in the fierce competition for road safety means in More and Romesdal. I am also aware that the municipalities along the Atlantic Road, with the Eide municipality at its head, are responsible for financing the fishing bridges along Myrberholmen Bru. The state road authority’s road district, together with the National Tourism Roads project, will cost planning and building rentals in addition to entering about one third of the investment in order to obtain this measure, which is important both in terms of road safety and in terms of the route’s perceived value as a national tourist road. It is a requirement that national efforts on national tourist roads should be followed up with project-related efforts in the form of financial engagement by other public actors in the areas, mainly municipalities and counties. In the next three years, the project National Tourism Roads will cost the entire development of the main square on the Ildhus High and a few other smaller measures to set the Atlantic route on the tourist road map by 2012. Together with the fissure layer to provide tourists and locals with a safe and secure experience from Myrberholmbrua, an already well-known tourist attraction will be an even more attractive destination. This kind of use of money will help to strengthen business in the area, in line with the objective of our targeted focus on the tourist attraction National tourist roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e941	I thank the Council of State for the answer and note that she was involved in the problem of road safety along the Atlantic route, and that the fishing bridges are just as much as a travel life product as a road safety measure. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, along the whole Atlantic route, it is completely missing. There's a lot of traffic there, especially in summer time. It is clear that when there are fishermen on the track on a national road and fishing and are concerned about whether or not a small catch on the fishing rod, there is a traffic hazard. What was amazing was that work on road safety measures stopped due to an application for windmills at sea. Does the Council of State think that it was right to stop the work on road safety in the Atlantic because it was requested to establish windmills at sea?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e948	The National Tourism Roads project is organised by a government of its own that makes its decisions within certain frameworks. It took a while after this decision was taken, until the Council of State heard that the work had stopped, then via local municipal and county representatives who brought matters up with me. When I was familiar with the cases, I invited national tourist roads to a meeting where, from the department's side, we made it clear that it is not like – as I also said in my main post – that we should not be able to combine windmills and national tourist roads. Such clarification is absolutely necessary, for this government wants to invest in renewable energy, and we cannot have it so that many of the tourist road projects that lie along the coast will stop. Without commenting directly, I would say on a principle basis that we are forced to find solutions, where one can have both renewable energy and tourist roads in an area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e953	When the toll collection period was over on the Atlantic Road, it was again approx. NOK 900000 that the company transferred to the Swedish Road Administration. It was then strong leadership from the Atlantic Road and the surrounding municipalities that the State Road Service should give priority to these funds to the so-called fishing bridges as a road safety measure. A normal return on that money would say that you might be approaching a grant of half a million. kr, based on the 900000 kroner that have grown over 10 years. I regret to register that the amount is the same today as it was last, ten years ago. Does the Council of State consider this to be a good management of the car drivers' tolls and lost interest that municipalities have to pay from a slumped municipal fund? Had it not been a better way to manage the money, so that the municipalities also did not finance lost interest?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e960	The situation I mentioned must be regrettable and say that I am not so aware that I would like to comment directly on him. The important thing for me to say is that in my time as the Council of State – and this government – I have double the promises of the tourist road project. This is one of the projects I've described as "rosina in sausage" because it combines a lot of what I'm busy with, i.e. exciting experiences, regional bets, architecture, artistic expressions – and not least one of the many local enterprises that we see flourish along the tourist roads, which means a lot to local development. So I follow that project carefully, both when it concerns the Atlantic route and other projects. At least I'm going to make sure that we get progress on this project, so that we can secure the bridge, and that we get progress on the other projects on the Atlantic road, because there's no doubt that there's a pearl, both among the tourist roads and overall in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e968	‘Problems for train travellers with cancelled and delayed trains have been in progress for a long time. A short time ago, the Council of State was asked about this in Stortinget and provided ‘inaccuracy’ information on scale and causes. It has subsequently been known that the NSB and the Railway Agency have been called to the crisis meeting last summer with the Department's management to get on the table to take action to improve the situation. The National Audit Office points to weak productivity and large operational deviations in 2007. What will the Council of State do to ensure that trains leave without delay?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e975	I would first like to take advantage of the need to clear up a confusion about the scope of train settings in the evening post on 22 October, which I responded to in the spontaneous Question Time on the same day. In this context, a distinction must be made between planned and non-scheduled options on the whole or part of a train section. The rail network only adds the non-scheduled settings to its regularity overviews. This is because, in the context of the planned options, travellers are informed in advance, and other transport is planned. The Railway Agency is responsible for the production of running deviation statistics in train traffic on the Norwegian network. I have been informed by the Railway Agency that until October this year there were a total of 5,769 non-scheduled train settings. This is an increase of 775 trains, or 15.5 pst., compared to the same period in 2007. As the representative of Sortevik correctly points out, I recently met with the railway company and NSB on delays and settings in train traffic and on what can be done to reverse the negative developments. It is not, however, as the representative Sortevik indicates, that there is a crisis or dishwasher meeting every time I talk to the Railway Agency and the NSB about this matter. As the sector's manager, it is particularly important for me to be up-to-date on these challenges and on the types of action that can be taken to improve this situation. At the same time, I am busy making sure that there is a great deal of agreement on the use of tools between the infrastructure manager and the desiderate largest train operator, and that the cooperation between them works well. The basic characteristic of a good train service is that the train advertised in the timetable comes and goes when they are going to. Improving the negative developments we have seen in recent times is crucial for people to continue travelling by train, and also for the train to attract more passengers for years to come. Therefore, I am busy using the various tools I have in the railway sector. The slump, for which previous governments also have to take responsibility, is largely due to the increase in train settings and delays in train traffic. The most important thing I can do in this context is to suggest increasing the permissions for the maintenance and renewal of the network, as this government has done, and to follow that the permissions are used in a targeted way. This government spends more money on the railways than previous governments have. This will also be followed up when we are about to submit a new national transport plan for the period 2010–2019. The work we have seen to improve the Oslo tunnel and the route between Oslo S and Skøyen can lead to delays in train traffic as part of the work takes place at the same time as trains run on the line. That is why I say that the train passengers must accept that it may be worse before it gets much better. To the Oslo Tunnel, it's worth 100 million. NOK only in 2008, and in the 2009 government budget proposal there is an additional 220 million. kr to improve this particular important area of Norwegian railway. I would also like to point out that, in addition to the immediate measures that are now being implemented in the Oslo Tunnel, and the major railway development that is continuing in the West Corridor, improvements will be made for approx. Ninety million. kr for exceptional renewal on Bergensbanen and Dovrebanen next year to reduce the number of slow runs on these two routes. At the same time, it is important that traffic operators also make their best efforts to reduce the causes of train delays and train running settings.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e992	This situation has been going on for a long time. In June 2000, the then Minister for Transport, Terje Moe Gustavsen, NSB and the Railway Agency called for a crisis meeting due to frequent delays. It's very serious, NSB has a problem, he said at the time. In August 2007, this Council of State met with the heads of the Railway Agency and the NSB, and the quote was then from this Council of State: I have not intended to rest until they have settled. In February 2008, there was a new meeting. So now we have recorded that there has been another meeting, and the Council of State notes, with adjusted information, that there is still an increase in the unplanned delays. What is done for trains to leave without delay? I repeat that question. Is the interaction between these two major stages good enough to ensure that people don't wait for trains that don't come?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1005	Just the meeting table, to which the representative Sortevik refers, confirms what I said in Stortinget, that I have not intended to sleep until we have settled on the train system, not least in this important area of the country. After all, it is not easy when you want to break loose on areas that need to be improved and that at first glance can look like they can be fixed by relatively simple means. Then we took 100 million. kr, that's what was sweet. So we see that we now have triple the sum – and still there may be a need for more. I don't have a complete overview of that today. But in any case, we have promised the funds the Railway Agency has wanted and asked for, and it is important for me to be able to say so. When it comes to the interaction between the Railway Agency and the NSB, it has never been as good as it is now, after the NSB was separated as a owned company. The reason is that we put ourselves together around the table, were some about an action strategy, which is being followed up by us in the ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1014	I thank you again for the answer. I noticed something the Labour Party representative Jan Bøhler said in an interpellation debate here in the hall last Thursday. He then said, "If the NSB and the Railway Agency don't manage to get together and just stop showing lack of funding for many, many years, you can't avoid that there will also be other cats on the table here," for example. a collective society in the eastern part of the country, where it can be eroded, or that it is actually ‘teaching some of the model from the Gjøvik track, where the operation was put at a competitive disadvantage and there is a certain degree of regularity’. Will the Council of State now rush into both the Railway Agency and the NSB to ensure that the trains are running without much delay, as the Workers' Party's representative Jan Bøhler points out should be done?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1023	I can't see that the problem we're currently having is about organisational form. It is a long-term under-financing of the railways, and a situation that would not have been better if the Progress Party had had a greater impact on transport policy – on the contrary. If we look at the Progress Party's budget proposals, their proposals show that we would have had a hard cut. What is needed now is more resources to upgrade existing networks and more resources to build on the double track in Intercity and elsewhere around the big cities. That's the medicine that's needed. You can't talk away from it by referring to reorganisation. It's clear that when one separated out the NSB, there was a big reorganisation that took time to see in the system. I don't think it's until now that we're seeing that the railway system and the NSB really have the good dialogue that they're going to have, and that along with the strengthening of the budget that this government has set up, we're going to have good results. I'm absolutely sure of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1035	«The government has reintroduced overnight offers to Stockholm and St.prp. No 1 for 2008-2009, the Ministry of Transport writes: ‘The government is engaged in good train connections between Norway and Sweden’. No 1 for 2007–08 to also reintroduce the provision of sleeping cars between Kristiansand and Oslo. When does the State Council expect the decision of the Storting to be implemented?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1042	The night train supply between Oslo and Stockholm is a commercial supply that is not purchased by the state and is therefore not part of the state's purchase agreement with the NSB. When it comes to the provision of sleeping cars between Kristiansand and Oslo, in 2008 the Ministry of Social Security has actively worked to follow up the Stortinget’s attitude. In line with the traffic agreement, the Ministry has sent a formal order to NSB AS asking for a price offer as a basis for negotiating the introduction of a sleeping car in Kristiansand. On this basis, the NSB has sent out a formal request for the rental of sleeping vehicles in European countries. In its request, the company has argued that the material must be able to run on Norwegian infrastructure, possibly with adaptations, so that it can be produced quickly. The request has been general and open to discover what is available. The NSB has also assessed the purchases of new sleeping cars, the conversion of current sleeping cars to sleeping cars and other alternatives that can make the overnight supply to and from Kristiansand more attractive to customers. In addition, the Ministry of Transport has engaged independent railway professional advisers to assess the availability of sleeping-car equipment that can be used in addition to the NSB sleeping-car's sleeping-car's equipment in the night-time operations on the Southland Railway. In addition, the consultants have reviewed their assessments to ensure the quality of the information provided. The results of all the studies show that the sleeping car market in Europe is very small. The demand for new sleeping vehicles is small, there are few manufacturers of new sleeping vehicles, the costs of such a small series are high, and it is uncertain whether it is possible to purchase only a series of two sleeping vehicles. At this stage, neither the NSB nor the railway consultants know that there are available sleeping wagons of the same quality as today’s sleepers that can be rented. The studies have revealed possibilities for NSB to rent very old sleeping vehicles. The material will require extensive upgrades to be able to be used for NSB sleeper wagon operations. Due to the high age of the material, both the size of the upgrade costs and the extent to which the vehicles will be approved are uncertain. The best option to proceed with is to rebuild the NSB’s B5 car. It is at least theoretically possible, but NSB has pointed out several uncertain technical factors. The NSB estimates that a conversion of two B5 will mean an increase in public purchasing requirements per year. over seven years of approximately 10 to 14 million. kr, and at the earliest possible date of entry into service during 2011. The calculations are based on the fact that the material should have a lifetime equal to that of the rest of the sleeping-car equipment, and the total purchase demand then amounts to between 70 and 98 million. kr. With this knowledge in mind, the Stortinget wants to allow more resources to put in place the sleeping cars scheme in Kristiansand, I recommend that the Ministry open negotiations with the NSB on the conversion of two B5 sleeping cars to sleeping cars with a view to the implementation of the 2011 offer. The current traffic agreement between the Ministry and the NSB stops in 2010 and, therefore, the State must now conclude its own agreement on this offer, so that the contractual relationship between the parties is regulated. I would like to say that this is a matter on which we have spent a lot of time and resources, and which I hope is now on a track where, if the Storting provides the necessary resources, we can get a good solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1059	On 17 April this year, I received an e-mail from Secretary of State Erik Lahnstein of the Ministry of Social Security, where he writes: ‘Although this is not an action we prioritise in the railway field, it is important that we clearly identify the options for action and the costs associated with it.’ [[and it is unjust that the financial fraction takes decisions against our will]] I notice that the Secretary of State is still Secretary of State, and that the decision to raise the issue has still not been followed up. Since the Minister for Transport has not done anything about this attitude to the Stortinget, does she agree with her Secretary of State that she can deprioritise or not follow up a decision on big business?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1071	I take a great deal of distance from all the insinuations that we're not following the Stortinge's decisions. A very tidy process has been carried out. We have taken steps to ensure the quality of the NSB’s negotiations and what has happened between the Ministry of Transport and the NSB – and there is something else that never does – just to come up with the claim that the NSB is training the case. It's a statement that the representative has made also in the public space. Therefore I have a good conscience that we have followed up the decision. I can't magic, but I can do a neat dialogue with the NSB to get the action option on the table. This measure has been given priority by the Stortinget. The trade fraction of the three parties had a different priority, and that's what the State Secretary has referred to in relation to what has been a priority from the trade fraction. But a big decision is being followed up, and that's what we're now doing in a clean way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1078	The size has decided that there should be sleeping car offers from Kristiansand. Very well known is the only large-scale decision on the provision of sleeping cars in Norway. At the same time, we know that there are two sleeping cars coming from Stavanger. It's actually no worse than that one could have disconnected the one in Kristiansand, if it had been willful for it. But I feel that there has been a lot of resistance and unvaluation to avoid implementing the Storting decision. I think it is serious and alarming that a government council, in relation to the Stortinget, is actually willing to put its position on the idea that there should not be a sleeping car offer between Norway's largest city and Norway's fifth largest city.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1085	I record that the representative has not listened fully to what I said in my main response. In my main response, I said that we are working on this matter, that the NSB is working on the matter, that we have had external consultants working on the matter, and that the promises that are made available are in no way opaque to what this will cost. But when that's the Storting's priority, we also have to find room for the funds. It must be done in a clean manner. The size has also been informed that such an offer will cost more than three million. kr that was put at the disposal. I think we have informed the Storting all the way in a neat way about what the situation is. We work to meet this and all the other big business decisions in a clean and good way. And we're going to keep doing that. I don't feel like this is about what a person is trying to create the impression, a kind of training of the case. This is actually about the fact that there is a slightly difficult situation that has arisen, and we have to solve it the best way. It solves us best through dialogue and good, simple, proper behavior.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1095	«The Government has renewed and developed the public sector as a separate chapter in its policy platform. Its name is, among other things,«Public sector shall be able to take account of quality, accessibility, fairness and economic efficiency.» The main objectives of transport are «transport safety, more environmentally friendly transport, regional development and an efficient and accessible transport system for the whole country». What is the strategy and measures of the Council of State to use renewal and modernisation to achieve the objectives?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1102	I think it's great that the Blackevik representative is up-to-date on the government's political platform, and that he's busy with how we follow up to the point and the point. The government has produced a report every year showing the follow-up to the Soria Moria declaration. The report also includes important measures and initiatives in addition to this. I would therefore like to refer to the latest status report from the Majority Government, the Soria Moria Declaration, three years after: ‘Our objectives in the renewal of the public sector are to achieve more well-being and less administration, more local freedom and less detailed management. Quality objectives must be pursued taking into account both quality, availability, fairness and economic efficiency. [[...]] The government launched a renewal strategy in October 2007 to show how the government is to improve the public sector. The strategy provides the main direction of government's work on public sector renewal. It discusses the value base and the central principle of work. It shows that the government is betting on Community solutions. The public sector must go ahead and not uncritically copy market solutions. The strategy shall ensure that ideals such as equality and justice are followed up in practical policies.’ I can assure the representative that I am working in line with the principles and values mentioned here. The renewal and development of the public sector is not the same as the release of public services. In order to bring about renewal and modernisation, it is important that the different levels of government have sufficient resources. As a result, this government has increased transfers to the municipalities. Therefore, this government is proposing to strengthen the regional level of governance through the administrative reform. As a result, this government has increased the scope of transport infrastructure more than the level of the national transport plan. Because the former governments allowed the road and rail networks to lapse and were in particular retained with the authorisations for maintaining the road and rail networks, this government has increased the level of maintenance more than laid down in the national transport plan. One thing is to want modernisation and hope that putting out competition gives the results you want, something else is to follow it up in practical policies with sufficient resources. The government has raised the appropriations for the four years to which the plan applies, in size approximately 11 billion dollars compared to the previous government’s proposal for a national transport plan, compared with 2009 budget. There is an overfill of nearly SEK 1.9 billion in relation to the Landfill Decision on the National Transport Plan. I find reason to remind you that the permissions e.g. in railway infrastructure under this government, with the 2009 draft budget, is 140 pst. on the draft budget of the previous government. I am sure that we will see the result of the strong increase in the loops of the years to come, in the form of a more modern and efficient transport system. As the representative of Sortevik is aware, the Government is now working on a national transport plan for the next ten years. I can promise that the Government will present a plan that will provide a good basis for further development and modernisation of the transport network in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1122	Thank you for a sorry but expected answer. Within the transportation area it is, I would say, having eye-catching major renewal efforts to get more out of the money. Councils have referred to increased appropriations in the field of transport. There it is to be added that the driving lists are heavily dependent on them, as toll use has increased dramatically. However, during the previous government, a great deal was done in the transport sector to get more money; they separated Mesta from the Road Service and got a total effect that gave almost $1 billion more to go. What renewal measures will the Council of State take in the railway field, for example: with trace back to my previous question, concerning the Railway Agency and the NSB? What renewal steps will the Council of State do there, except to call people into the carpet occasionally?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1131	Renewal of the Norwegian network is about putting resources at the disposal which will take the form of an improved bulwark arrangement and not least the renewal of the electrical system, signalling system and all the out-of-date and out-of-date track changes. It is not the case that a postponement of that activity to a greater extent than it is today – a lot of which is simply out of competition – will bring some huge benefits. The NSB is divorced, operates with ownership and has its own business operations – and operates well. The NSB has demonstrated the ability to renew the organisation and demonstrated the ability to operate properly. I have great faith that the cooperation that is now up and running between the NSB and the Railway Agency, which is on a completely different level, not least thanks to the activity of the Ministry of Transport, will also produce good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1138	I'm turning my focus further into maritime transport in the transport sector. What action does the Minister for Transport take to raise maritime transport in transport policy? Everyone is talking nice about transferring more goods from road to rail, but the government leaves the area fairways and ports under the Ministry of Fisheries and Coast. I remember that even in the current national transport plan period, the current government parties have said that the fee structure should be reviewed. The report is available. Does not the Minister for Transport feel responsible for improving the conditions of maritime transport in domestic transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1145	When it comes to the last thing, about the structure of the fee, it's followed up with a review. It will come back to Stortinget at a suitable time, and it will probably be within the national transport plan context. When it comes to seeing the different modes of transport in context, which are very much involved, they get e.g. more goods by sea, do a job now and look in the national transport plan context on how we can improve the connecting point function, the terminal structure, so that it is easier to access both maritime and maritime transport. I have not felt that it is problematic that maritime transport is under the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. We have very good cooperation, and this cooperation will result in a national transport plan that will also raise maritime transport and the opportunities for getting more goods on the road, which is largely about: [[President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1157	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Business and housing in the Røros district is highly dependent on a stable and adequate flight route offer. Once again, there is uncertainty as to whether there is a willingness to maintain such an offer by the authorities. How does the Council of State assess this situation, and what will she do to ensure Røros a flight offer that meets the needs of the tourism industry in particular?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1166	Let me first say that the Government's promise in the Soria Moria Declaration to ensure a good supply of the regional air route network is at hand. There is no reason to doubt the Government's willingness to keep up the route provision in the district. The Ministry of Transport has, in the autumn, been offering the operation of 18 regional air route areas in Norway. The deadline was 3 November, and the Ministry of Transport has been offered from a total of six airlines wishing to fly on one or more of the routes. The offer is now available for evaluation in the department, and I cannot therefore comment on the specific content of these days. The uncertainty that arises from the fact that one does not know which airlines win the deal, we do not get out of hand. The earliest time for awarding the supply contracts is 5 January. However, I can say something about the demands I made in the offer. The Røros community today only offers a daily flight to and from Oslo. In line with the signals I received from the Røros region, demands have been made in the new offer which means that Røros will have two daily scheduled connections, Monday to Friday, from April 1st next year. The route will provide a better supply of population and business in the Røros region for the years to come. The Røros route is today one of the smallest routes on which the state buys services. I believe that more people will travel by plane to and from the Røros region when the supply is improved by increasing the frequency.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1175	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I understand that the Council of State is also well aware of the needs of Røros, through the enquiries that have come from the municipality. Nor do I doubt that the Council of State will do its utmost to give us a good flight offer to Bergstaden, which is known for its world heritage status. When the authorities have also pointed out Røros specifically as a destination of travel life, as a pilot project, and have given money to it, it is important to have a similar flight offer, because here you need to fill up the opportunities offered by the travel industry, not least, with hotels and conferences. In order to maintain an annual offer, you also need to have a flight offer that is adapted to it. My question is, will you go away from the size of 15-19 aircraft seats that you have suggested in the tender document and secure an aircraft that is the size of the aircraft that goes there today?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1182	At the announcement of the previous offer by the previous government, the requirement was primarily two aircraft. It overlooked and added a structure with a plane a day, which has been very small for the Bergstaden Røros. Based on the traffic currently in the box, and what you can count on in the near future, one has added up to a seat as mentioned. That's what's inside the offer. I can't stand to say or say anything about what's in the offer from the different companies today. There are several companies that have offered flights to Røros. If this is available for other sizes of aircraft, I'm simply not familiar with today, because it's not even here on my table. Anyway, I don't have the ability to comment on it when we're in the middle of an offer process, and I have to ask respect for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1187	I thank you again for the answer. I understand that the Council of State cannot go into the processing of the tenders as it is now. But I still allow myself to say that it is important that Røros does not get too little aircraft operated by an airline that is not robust enough to deal with the conditions on Røros. I think it's very important, and also that you get a continuous ticket scheme, so that you don't take out the luggage and check in again when you get to Gardermoen. There are such things that are very important, and I hope that the Council of State will do what she can to ensure that you can have a bigger plane that meets the needs you have – otherwise it seems more like this is something you do to buy a good conscience, instead of solving the problems that this region has. I do not doubt that this Council of State is interested in maintaining the settlement in this area as well, as is the case in other parts of the country, where you have a better flight offer. I can only appeal to the Council of State that she is doing what she can to meet this need.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1194	That the government has the will to keep up a good offer also to Røros, the network appeared when the default operator on the Røros route unfortunately went bankrupt in January this year. At that time, the Ministry of Transport was in a hurry to provide passengers with an alternative temporary flight offer, which was, quite rightly, a relatively high cost, but which has been important for stability in supply. Because we know that when an offer goes away, it's harder to reprocess it. I think that following up the local desire for two flights – it has been quite clear from the local government that the most important thing is to get an early departure and a late departure – is proof that we are both listening to local government powers and complying with the requirements they have. Then we have to come back to the result in January.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1221	These questions have been postponed until the next question time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1227	We're gonna stick to Røros. I allow myself to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: ‘Two Supreme Court rulings state that the reindeer industry does not have grazing rights in Aursund. However, under the threat of expropriation, an agreement on reindeer grazing was negotiated with 23 out of 26 landowners. The agreement is unclear on two essential points; how are those who want to start up on their own property defined and treated? Can the Council of State confirm that farm operations can be started on the basis of its own foreign resources in the future, so that the fence is moved at the expense of the state, and that start-up is not defined differently here than elsewhere?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1236	Following the decision of the Supreme Court in 1997 concerning the area north of Aursunden, extensive work has been undertaken to ensure the necessary spatial basis for continued sustainable reindeer management in the affected reindeer district. The present agreement solution has been obtained through negotiations between a Land Owners' Committee and a State negotiating committee. Issues relating to the transfer of fences have been raised in connection with the accession of the individual landowner to the agreement. The negotiated agreement provides in point 9 for the right of each landowner to require negotiations on the transfer of the fence in the event of changes in existing agricultural holdings. Whereas, on the part of the Ministry, it has been stated that the Ministry cannot give prior guarantees as regards specific solutions to matters assumed to be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement; However, it has been stated by letter of 5 June 2008 that point 9 of the Agreement concerning the movement of the fence in the event of changes to existing agricultural holdings also applies to the establishment of livestock production on uses in the rented area where such production has been down for a short or longer period of time and with a view to finding solutions. It has been a clear objective of the State that an agreement should not constitute an obstacle to agriculture in the region. In my opinion, the agreement and the letter provided for both existing agriculture and the possibility of starting livestock production on uses where production has fallen. In my opinion, we have thus been given solutions that take good care of both reindeer farming and agriculture. In addition, the expropriation home of the reindeer management law was incorporated into the law at the 1996 statutory audit. The provision had a background to the right situation in the Røros area. However, it was explicitly clarified in the context of legal proceedings that as far as possible efforts should be made to achieve voluntary agreements and that it is only when special considerations are made that expropriation could be relevant. On the part of the State, these leaderships have been followed in all ways in the negotiation process that has now been carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1249	I would like to start by saying that the last judgment in the Supreme Court came in 1997 or 1998, i.e. after the Stortinge did its law audit. Then I am very pleased with the signals given by the Council of State, and thank you for the answer, because I feel that the Council of State here meets the users who want to restart operations. There are two specific cases in Røros where users have had problems getting into good dialogue with the ministry and getting guarantees that their part of the field can be used for production that they want to re-enter. I just want to ask the Council of State to state that the intention and objective of the Government is not to restrict either existing or future agricultural operations, and that it will be possible through concrete negotiations with the state to reach agreement, where the state moves the fence at its own expense, so that its own foreign resources can be put into operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1258	I can confirm that it will be opened for it. It is envisaged that a negotiated solution should be found to the challenges pointed out here by the representative Mr Borten Moe. It is quite clear that the agreement is intended not to hinder agriculture in the area. I believe that both existing agriculture and any new start-up of livestock production on abandoned uses will be opened up through this agreement. It is also the case that, after negotiations, one needs to find the right solutions for the location of the fences.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1263	I would like to thank you for your answer, and stress that I agree with the intentions expressed by the Council of State. I am absolutely sure that both the undersigned and the Council of State want a development which means that this type of nutritional exercise can take place in this area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1268	I can only comment – at the end of the day – that the intention is clear in the agreement that has been concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1281	This question has been postponed to the next question hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1287	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: «In the Glåmdalen newspaper of 13 November we can read about a man in Hedmark who is asking for help. He says that the knit is stretched so far that he is concerned about his crew, as well as that you do not reach out to investigate serious matters before new ones arrive. Does the Council share this alarm message from this and more other statesmen’s offices?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1296	The situation in the police has been a challenge over several years, precisely because it has been trained for a few policemen in Norway. In the autumn, the situation has worsened because police officers seem to have decided to protect their leisure time to a greater extent, by not taking on overtime guards on a voluntary basis. The question, which is related to the Solør holding in Hedmark Police District, I have submitted to the Police Directorate and to the police chief. I have also had a long conversation with Lenner Bjørn Trumet today early on the matter. In the last year, the sole proprietor has had several major and work-intensive issues, including: One killing, one police officer injured during service, detection of a very large car accident, detection of a cannabis plant, seizures of 170 kg of cannabis resin at the border with Sweden. It can also be mentioned that the Tollvessen recently revealed the largest attempt to smuggle alcohol in Hedmark as far as this year at the border in just Åsnes. These are things that are very resource-intensive. Several other holdings have therefore assisted in the investigation of some of the cases and the serious cases referred to above have been resolved and are expected to be completed within a short period of time. I would like to take the opportunity here to commend the police in Solør. They have done a great job with these matters and deserve all kinds of credit for it. So what I want to describe as a good news is that the Solour farm, like most other farms, has a tight budget and staffing situation. With regard to the manning situation, clear signal has now been given by the police department management to release a vacancy in addition to a civil position. The latter is a real increase in staff to the holding. I think it will be well received, and that it will also be a very good contribution to the good tribe of policemen we have in Solør. It's about 13 pieces in total, and we want the crew to increase. It's the government's ambition elsewhere in the country. The government has therefore launched several measures to strengthen the police and relief services. The record record for the last two years of 432 students has been proposed next year to 552 students. It's the highest admission of students at the Police College after the Police College was established. That means that in the period 2006-2009, the recording at the Police College will be on a total of 1,776 students, and there are almost 650 more students than we experienced during the Bondevik II government. In addition to increasing the admission to the Police College, we are working to better organise the police so that they can make the best use of their skills. The Directorate of Police has launched a number of actions, including: recruitment of personnel with other training, such as detainees, to release police officers and women for police duties. At the same time, we are working to keep experienced policemen in work. With regard to operational budgets and staffing, the Government, as is well known, has decided to strengthen the police districts’ budget by a further 52 million. kr in the current year in addition to that in the revised national budget and that on which the budget was based this year. In addition to the increase the police have already had this year, this means that in 2008 the police have a real increase of more than 360 million. kr. The government also proposes to allocate 561 million. in 2009 to complete the first stage of the emergency network, where the three emergency situations, health, fire and police, can talk together in emergency situations on an encrypted network. This will also contribute to more efficient resource use, increased security for employees and enhanced police force. It is a goal for the Government to prevent better and solve more. It is particularly important to increase the clarification of the large volume of profit crime, which affects most people. From December 1st this year, the police have been given the opportunity to increase the use of DNA during the investigation. We spend 64 million in the year. DKr, and for next year has increased the police's allocation to SEK 103 million. kr for the extension of the DNA registry and central funding of samples, so that police districts are free to spend money on this. This is also a benefit for Solør. Good and effective prevention will also contribute to increased safety. There is a lot of good work done, including in Solør. Such work will reduce the cost to society of reactive and repairing activities. The government has therefore started work on a strategy for setting up society’s instrumentation to become more preventive and less reactive and repairable. The work is managed by the Ministry of Justice, which will also direct the work of the new government action plan to strengthen cooperation on crime prevention in general. Despite a time-consuming operating situation in the police and officers' seats, we have a police officer here in Norway who is doing a great job. We have a police force with good education and a high level of competence. In several important areas, crime is also moving in the right direction, and we therefore have a police force that has great confidence in the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1326	I thank the Council of State for a good and complementary answer to my question. At least we agree on one thing, and that is that we should praise the police we have, in this case the police in Solør. They're doing a huge job in the difficult situation they're in right now. In Solør – if I understand correctly – the police coverage is 0.78 per. Thousands of people, while the national average, as I understand it, is 1.8. So you're at approx. half. Now I understand that there will be some more, but we won't get up on the national average anyway. The mariner is asking for help. He says, among other things:«... I have to admit that we are not able to follow up on everyday crime as well as we wish.» There must be something in it. Then my question is, is the Council of State concerned about the situation, and in this case in Solør?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1335	It is a difficult situation, but at the same time, through the conversation I have had with the solour borrower today, I am confirmed that there is not much that is needed to get watch lists to go together, or that you can get hold of the things you want to get hold of. It was suggested that you wanted to expand the crew by four positions, and I am convinced that it will make sure that Solør climbs up in terms of police density per. the population. Then I think it's a good start that the chief of police in Hedmark has opened up to manned with a police officer's position, and is getting a newly recruited job, which shows that the steps that the government is taking to strengthen the police's operating budgets, especially with a view to increasing the number of civilians, actually come to the fore, namely the population – also in Solør.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1340	I thank the Council once again for the answer. It's clear there's a serious situation that hopefully now gets better, and we'll hope it comes even more resources. Together, we have to make it. Otherwise, there has been a lot of talk about sick messages and stuff. In this case, the bilgeman says this has nothing to do with any action. They haven't had any search messages. It doesn't matter at all, but they have so much to do that they get worn out. Then the loner gets worried about his crews. I get that. In addition, this has something to do with the security of most people. It's clear that when those who work to secure our security get worn out and don't have the power to move out everywhere, most people get a little worried. I remember that this summer people in Våler, i.e. the neighbouring municipality, were met by a closed door because the police had worked so much that they had to adjust according to the law. Then a closed door met. Of course it's not lucky.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1351	I think the answer is the same to the challenges we're facing. I also want to say that to the extent that you get tired in Solør, it is not necessarily based on overtime usage. You have, as I see it, less than ten hours on average overtime per. official per months. So overtime use is reasonably moderate in this area. But obviously it's frustrating to see that you have big tasks that are not being solved. That's why I think we need to get in more crew. It is a challenge for the Government to face a situation that is due to three to four years ago, including in particular: The progress party was involved in budgeting here in Stortinget, had a recording at the Police College, which was all the way down to 240 students, so far below half of the number we're going to raise to next year. It is a responsibility I believe the questioner's party must also take, because that is one of the reasons why there are so few policemen today. It takes time to train them, and that's why we have to increase on, among other things. civil resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1363	‘The new opera has become a great attraction for both the inhabitants of Oslo and its visitors. However, attendance and enthusiasm for the building itself are in contrast to what is done by performance offerings to the audience. Arrangements are postponed or cancelled, and the number of performances is cut. Of course, this is frustrating for all those who have ordered tickets, travels, hotels, etc., but also for the Opera itself and for the performers. How does the State Council assess the situation of the Opera?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1370	Let me first say that I fully agree with the representative of the Syversen that the new opera house has become a fantastic attraction. The house has gained international fame. It is estimated that 800,000 people have been visiting from April this year until it was closed for winter in October. The house has become a symbol of what Norway stands for as a cultural nation. I also want to acknowledge that there have been many highlights in the opening program for the Norwegian Opera & Ballet. Everyone has known that moving from the old and non-functional premises in the Folketeater building to the new opera house in Bjørvika with its two scenes and an advanced theatre technique would put the Norwegian Opera & Ballet in front of very great challenges – but also similar great opportunities. There has therefore been close contact in recent years between the Opera and the Ministry to facilitate the budgetary escalation required by the new house. A contingency plan for the Opera has been agreed, which should provide the institution with safe and predictable framework conditions. The 2009 State budget has increased by 40 million. kr in relation to 2008. Of this, 17 million is. kr for artistic escalation. The escalation plan, which was 85 million. NOK 71 million has now been completed. in the case of crowns, so that there are now 14 million remaining. until next year before completion of the agreed escalation. So the acceleration has been faster than a smooth curve should be. It has also been suggested that the Opera should continue in 2009 as part of the Framework Grant, EUR 11.5 million. kr that was one-off costs associated with the opening of the new house in 2008. I would like to point out that the operating budget of the Opera in the four-year period 2006-2009 has increased by almost 125 million. kr, or 48 pst. There is a historically unique increase in the framework conditions of a Norwegian art and cultural institution. For me, it is fundamental that the Norwegian Opera & Ballet – in the same way as other cultural institutions – must plan the activities on the basis of the budgetary framework. In addition, institutions must work to increase their own income. Of course, the opera, with all the publicity that the institution can reap from the new house in Bjørvika, has special opportunities to obtain such income. I would like to stress that revising artistic plans, as is usually done at the art institutions, does not have to mean a reduced offer for the audience. The Ministry is going to follow closely the development of the Norwegian Opera & Ballet, and I have asked the Opera for an explanation, where both the cost side and the income side of the operation are clarified. Finally, one of the explanations of the cancellations in the artistic program of the Norwegian Opera & Ballet is that the Opera has also had to find room to learn to operate the complex technique of the new house satisfactorily and properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1387	I thank you for your answer. The government finally mentioned that some of the performances, the configurations, are complicated. That is probably the background for the ‘ground around 80 days’ being postponed until 2010. But as early as 2009, what was supposed to be a bigger setup, namely ‘Valkyria’, is being cancelled in the economy. I must say that, as a common citizen, there are significant budgetary increases, as the Council of State had in mind, while the core summits among the friends of the Opera have come to the point that they think the offer is more artistically weaker than in a very long time. I also understand that a statement has been requested. I almost have to ask if there is anything in the operation of the Opera itself that does not go all the way after the recipe, seen with the eyes of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1396	Now, we're both going to be in government, and big-time representatives are going to stop us from going into the actual programming of the Opera. It's the operator's domain. There must be artistic freedom. It's also a bit of a mistake to produce what's happening, as a cut, because the reality is that there's a huge increase in the operation at the Opera. There are several ballet performances, several opera performances, many game evenings, two scenes to play on. So there's a strong growth in activity compared to what was in the Folketheater Building. Now when you're talking about cutting, you're talking about reducing something on very ambitious plans for increase. It'll still be a big increase in activity, but something's changing. I understand that you are frustrated if you have bought a ticket perhaps planned a trip to Oslo for a show that is then cancelled. That's what you should try to avoid. But that the activity is greatly improved, and that the quality is also high, there is no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1405	The cuts are of course seen in relation to the set-up program, which was so thoughtful that tickets were sold for the performances, etc. I guess everyone understands that it feels like a cut in the offer that is actually presented to the audience, and that the audience has arranged for. As for how much you played in the old building, I guess it's of less interest to those who bought these tickets, I'll assume. I register that a statement has been requested. I have also noticed with interest that the Council of State seems to believe that the basis for sponsorship revenue should be significantly greater than what has been taken out to date from the Opera. In brackets, this is also a development in the government party’s view of sponsorship activities. My question is, when you're asking for a statement, is it because you're unsure whether you have the necessary control of the Opera?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1414	No, we have full confidence in the board and management of the Opera, but when we ask for an orientation, it's because we want to get information directly and not just through the media. We're doing the lifting of time in public cultural appropriations, almost $2 billion since the government change. The growth in 2009 is twice as high in real terms as in the whole of the previous ageing period. It shall not prevent institutions from doing a good job on the sponsor side. The Opera is doing a good job, and I don't think you're going to have that big ambition beyond what's in the budget. There might be more of these 800,000 visitors. The opera says that there are costs – extra costs for cleaning, etc. That's when we say that the extra costs of getting 800,000 visitors have to be able to cover extra income by getting 800,000 visitors. It can't be an unreasonable expectation. But we will probably have a bottom-solid public funding for the Opera, with a huge increase in recent years – and certainly in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1427	‘In the climate agreement, the Government committed itself to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in Norway by between 15 and 17 million. tonnes of CO2 equivalent by 2020. Following the climate agreement, emissions from Melkoya increased Norway’s total emissions by 1.5 million. tonnes. The sharp expansion will increase emissions by a further 500000 tonnes. The Goliath Development Plans, which are now being consulted, will also lead to increased emissions. What concrete measures does the Council of State intend to take to help reduce emissions in the oil and gas sector?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1437	First of all, I believe that the representative Holten Hemdal addresses a very relevant issue of greenhouse gas emissions. I want to start with what we've been focusing on over the past week because last week the International Energy Agency, the IEA, released this year's World Energy Outlook release. It brings facts and perspectives to the world’s energy situation and energy-related climate challenges. The Agency’s analyses show links between poverty reduction and energy use and challenge our thinking on energy and climate issues. In its publication, the Energy Agency points to two main challenges facing the world on the energy side: how we can make a rapid transition to a more environmentally friendly energy system and secure access to reasonable energy. Continuing the world as today, it's moving towards a temperature increase of 6 degrees. It doesn't matter! The analysis also directly intervenes in what is the Norwegian energy dilemma: we need to reconcile our role as a major exporter of energy with being a leading country in the environmental field. Fortunately, the Agency also points to how the world’s country can reduce emissions in order to prevent such an increase in temperature. The most ambitious path is a temperature increase of 2 degrees, which is equal to the goal of the government. Fortunately, the IEA is also aware of what measures are needed to achieve this: Energy efficiency measures cleaner energy emissions from fossil energy use need to be reduced and CCS is referred to as a fully concrete instrument Then it is that few countries are as lucky as Norway in that we have approximated all power supply based on pure hydropower. However, there is no sleeping cushion for us. We have put in place concrete measures to reduce emissions. We contribute natural gas, which allows for a reduction in coal use in Europe. We have established a price of carbon. We have strengthened our efforts to improve energy efficiency. We have further strengthened the commitment to renewable energy, and we are betting on carbon management. When we specifically address emissions reductions in the oil and gas sector, it is something that is high on my agenda. In 2007, 31 pst came. of the total Norwegian CO2 emissions from the petroleum activity. I am constantly working on how emissions can be reduced to meet Norway's climate obligations. The concrete thing here is electrification. It shows results when it's done. Other climate action must of course also be considered. Especially in the context of new expansions and major conversions of older installations, where we have a high focus on energy efficiency improvement by the authorities, on the reduction of climate and environmental emissions to air and sea, as well as the above-mentioned electrification. The government received a review of the costs of electrification in January. It shows that, in many cases, action costs are high. We have to be honest with that. However, force from land remains an important climate agent, and the discussion around Goliath, as the representative mentions, shows just that. Extensive use of the instrument to reduce emissions to air has led to significant emission reduction measures being implemented in the Norwegian petroleum sector in recent years. It has been a CO2 tax for 15 years. There are strict rules for flaring and requirements for gas deposition solutions. From 2008, the petroleum sector was also included in the quota system. Awareness of more energy-efficient operation and emission reduction activities has affected field working procedures. This has resulted in action plans in the companies and has had an impact on decision-making processes. This means that a lot has been done, but as the IEA report so clearly shows, more needs to be done. We're not on target.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1470	I thank you for your answer. Yes, it's done a lot, but the question is what the government will do in the future, because that's what the climate deal is going on. From 2008 to 2020, we will have a reduction of between 15 million and 17 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent. The council has said that he will act and not write messages. He scrapes in relation to the energy message, but then I challenge action: Will the Council of State demand the electrification of new and existing installations where it is cost-effective to do so, in the matter which the Storting will be presented to it, when the Council of State has acted?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1480	Initially, I can answer yes to the question asked by the representative. I believe that electrification of the socket is a very important measure to reduce emissions. In those cases where, as the Stortinget has also said, it is cost-effective, it must be done. I believe that the impact assessment we have received from Eni in connection with the development of Goliath shows that what has been said from Regeringa, and what has been said from Stortinget, works. Eni has even made suggestions for electrification. So there's going to be a consultation process with Goliath now, a consultation process that will also address how much electrification you're going to land on for Goliath. We are definitely on the right track to get in electrification as a natural part of doing oil and gas activities at sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1485	I thank you for your answer. The Council of State draws up the IEA report and the ambitious objectives and measures that need to be taken if we are to achieve the goal of the Government, which is a 2 degree increase in temperature – only. One of the first and perhaps most important measures identified by the IEA is energy efficiency improvement. How will the Council of State address that part of the matter in relation to our oil and gas sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1492	As I said in my first answer, it is among the things that have been on the agenda for environmental work on Norwegian soil in the last few years. Energy efficiency has thus been an essential objective for the oil and gas sector. Now, when we see the oil and gas sectors becoming part of the quota system, and we've been working on the CO2 tax, we also see that the incentives to work with these questions on the base are larger than they were at an early stage. So the main means of achieving energy efficiency on a Norwegian base is that the cost of pollution is so high that energy efficiency is paying off. There's nothing different on the base than what it is in society for the rest, but we know that's a measure that works.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1503	The question is: ‘Many power analysts consider CO2 allowances and coal power to be poor because the power industry as a whole is falling heavily on the allowances through higher electricity prices. The CO2 costs of coal power are passed on to customers, while the CO2 free power gains all. Norwegian hydropower producers serve this purpose, but the system imposes significant additional costs on Norwegian hydropower customers in industry and households. What will the Council of State do to reduce the negative impact it has on Norwegian electricity customers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1521	Developments in the price of power in the Nordic market depend on a number of factors, in particular the volume of rainfall in Norway and Sweden is important. This often leads to considerable uncertainty about price developments. At the same time, the Nordic power market is linked to the rest of Europe through electricity transmission links. The evolution of the power market on the continent is therefore also important for the evolution of electricity prices on the Nordic market. These developments are associated with considerable uncertainty over time. Important factors include: the price evolution of coal and gas and the evolution of CO2 emission prices. In January 2008, we entered a new allowance period. There are now higher emission allowances prices for CO2 than they were in the last part of the previous period. It draws towards the fact that coal power and gas power are becoming more expensive to produce than before, giving incentives for the production of power that does not result in CO2 emissions. It concerns electricity from renewable energy sources. The higher the price of CO2 allowances, the more profitable it becomes for renewable energy producers. In order to move towards a more sustainable production and consumption pattern, it is important to establish a real price for greenhouse gas emissions. The quota market is a central instrument to achieve this and to achieve the objectives set by the Government. Higher costs of producing electricity based on fossil fuels will increase competitiveness, inter alia. the pure Norwegian hydropower, which does not emit CO2. This benefit for renewable energy production is a desired impact of the allowance system.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1545	Thanks for the answer. The challenge with the answer given by the Council of State is that he gives a process description of how the market works, but he does not take up the consequences, which was what I wanted to address here. Of course, the price of electricity in the Norwegian market depends on, for example: water, since 99 pst. power generation is water-based. Therefore, good market balance is important. At the same time, one sees that the introduction of the CO2 quota regime in Europe provides an additional cost for the coal industry, but they can largely only transfer the costs to their customers. Of course, the Norwegian hydropower market benefits well, but at the same time loses the industry that has developed in Norway by processing pollution-free power at a cheap cost, this competitive advantage; the advantage is transferred to public hands, which are the owners of these power companies. The question then arises: what action will a person take to try to maintain the competitive advantage of the Norwegian industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1555	We're not going to put any action against this. What Solvik-Olsen's representative here is a criticism of the quota system. It's system criticism -- criticism of having a quota system and having a cost of CO2. The whole point of the allowance system is to get the cost of pollution into a market-based system. When you get that cost into the system, of course, the profitability of producing other renewable energy will increase. That's the whole joke. That is what we are going to achieve through the quota system – and I have to say: to the confusion that I hear The Progress Party wants to achieve through green certificates, which are also a market-based system. So I have to say that the criticism that I experience is being made in the main hall today is a criticism of the quota system, and it is a criticism that I completely disagree with. The quota system is the best instrument we have today to bring down the emissions of CO2. It is a necessary tool to achieve the objectives we have set for the climate challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1566	I think this is a little weird. Of course, I agree that the quota system, given the need to reduce CO2 emissions, is a sensible instrument. Then one just has to make sure that the quota system works, and that one does not present a climate quota law, as in Norway, that one still cannot implement in practice because there are so many strange peculiarities. But aside from that. What I hope would be the answer is that it is up to industry to set up an industrial power regime, with which the Council of State is well-known, which gives industry an opportunity to own its own power indirectly and thus ensure that one can use Norwegian clean hydropower for industrial purposes for self-sufficiency, thereby releasing the CO2 cost imposed from Europe, where one needs to reduce emissions from its power generation because much is based on coal. It's not in Norway. However, the Norwegian industry based on hydropower receives the same extra costs as the coal-based European industry, and then Norwegian industry does not have a competitive advantage of being located in Norway. Therefore, I hoped that the answer would focus more on industrial power and not just problematize it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1579	In terms of industrial power, the situation is that we've come up with a set-up around what's also based on industry thinking itself linked to a purchasing consortium, and we're working on that. Otherwise, I believe that it is not possible to imagine a solution in which one generally exempts electricity produced on pure energy from market prices. Then the whole quota system will slide. One has to have a market that works, and I would say: a market without too much intervention, where renewable energy producers get out of the gain in the market that makes it come up with new renewable energy actually happens. If we're going to zero out the consequences of the CO2 tax on a more general basis, for which I realized that the question really opens up, we're also going to zero out the incentives to get the new renewable energy up and down.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-19.ana.ud596e1599	This question has been postponed to the next question hour. Thus, Stortinget has done the final work on today's map.
