ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e25	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be a change of line of up to three lines with replies from the Council of State post within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It'll be looked upon as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e34	The majority shall now consider proposals from several Right-wing Representatives for the modernisation of the construction and property activities of the State. This is a proposal that re-examines previous proposals from the Bondevik II Government. The Right Party and the Progressive Party are trying to create a picture of the lack of political will to convert and improve the efficiency of the public sector and the neglect of the necessary tasks. Of course, this isn't right. Like the proposers, the current government is committed to managing the state's properties in a good and sound manner, while we see that there is a lot to re-enter into the big lag in maintenance. But it's probably also timely to mention that this great aftertaste has come not only in the two, three last years, but also in the years right in government. Our government shows the will to rectify this, and has announced that it will consider any changes to the country's construction and property activities in greater detail, and that it will come back to this at a later date. The Government has also stated that it considers several of the above issues in its proposal. This will probably inform the Council of State more about. The majority of the Committee therefore refers to the Government's renewal measures in that area on an independent basis and we are confident that it will return to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner with regard to any changes in the construction and property activities of the State.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e45	In one of the first posts I had in this period, I showed that the Progress Party recorded that in the negotiated document on Soria Moria there were many formulations that indicated that it would not be the Progress Party’s political point of view that would underlie the political governance system in the future. When I read this document on the renewal and development of the public sector, I have to admit that it was little in line with the Progress Party's wishes and goals - on the contrary. So we had a lot of excitement about what would come from the new government council when we started this period. From our point of view, we just have to say that our assessments from the Progress Party's side were correct. I would also say that this is the case when it relates to construction and property. It is shown that there has been a great lag for a long time, so the representative Inger Løite is right that it also writes from earlier times, it is not only now that this has occurred. But it was said by the Council of State and others when we started this period, that we were going to have a follow-up and a postponement of work on the renewal of the public sector. I'm going to say that that's not the case. I think people see what's happening to what's being pointed out from the Progress Party and the Right side when it comes to this case. People themselves are able to discover what's happening to the tasks and the construction projects that are being postponed and on which there are going to be huge excesses. I think there's something drastic going on here if you're going to get up to date with what's, and was, the goal of this government. I don't think I should say so much more than that I want to address the suggestions that the Progress Party is involved in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e56	The representative Åge Starheim has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e59	The background to this proposal is that in June 2004, the Bondevik II government set up an interdepartmental investigation committee to look at the whole country’s construction and property activities in the military and civil sectors, given that there are currently rather weak incentives to rent or build reasonably, to ensure good maintenance and to efficient land use in the state sector. The State is probably the second largest property manager in Norway. The way it uses properties, manages properties, organizes property operations, both existing and new, has enormous economic consequences for public Norway. This work resulted in a series of recommendations on actions that, based on the estimates of external consultants, could provide annual savings of DKK 1-2 billion. It is a significant amount and could have been used for both new buildings, maintenance and upgrades, which are strictly necessary in the public sector. The proposals made in the document were made in the 2006 draft budget. After the 2005 elections, there was a new government, and the new government cancelled all these proposals with the following simple sentence in its 2006 supplementary draft budget: ‘The government will further consider any changes to its construction and property activities and will return to them at a later date.’ In the context of the 2008 state budget, i.e. just before Christmas last year, the High Council asked the Minister of Finance whether any of these measures had been implemented during the two years that had passed. The answer to that was: none. The response received by the Committee in connection with this document is that the Government continues to assess this. Then I wonder: what is the reason why we have a government that has concrete proposals that can save 1-2 billion dollars a year, without going beyond individuals, services, anything - on the contrary, it is environmentally friendly, energy-friendly and, in particular, economically economical to implement these measures - while there are two years and the government is doing nothing? It may well be that the government has ideological contradictions to some of these points, but that all the proposals should be such that one cannot implement them, is quite perceptive. One could believe that the reason was that the Ministry of Renewal and Administration and the Minister of Renewal and Administration were so terribly concerned with other matters that one simply did not have the capacity to take this task seriously. Well, I think everyone who's been following up on what things have come from the Ministry of Renewal and Administration over the last two years understands that that explanation doesn't hold at least. The Committee has not received a single single issue from this government on the modernisation/renewal of the public sector - not one issue. So at least it can't be the working capacity in the ministry that's the reason one hasn't got into these points. I'm sorry, there's been one operation for the renewal of the public sector -- but it wasn't a separate case, it came into the state budget -- namely, that the State Consultant was transformed into a public agency, and the management was moved to the state council's homeland. [[High Music Out]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e83	State Council Heidi Grande Røys--no also with order music.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e86	There might be as much rock on the inside as on the outside for a time - we'll see. The state has an extensive construction and ownership business, which requires large resources. The government is busy running the enterprise efficiently, so that the state has functional locality at a reasonable cost over time. But the government's proposal is not the separation and exemption of government activities. It's ours and it's the right hand side, it's not the red-green government's answer. Anyone who has read both the Soria Moria platform, the innovation platform and everything else we have provided has seen that there is one thing: this government is renewing the public sector and transforming the public sector as a public sector, not by separation, not by liberation. That it still, after two and a half years, surprises the Right and the Advance Party, yes, I am, but it cannot be understood. It is crystal clear formulated in the party program, in the Soria Moria platform and most of the time we have delivered from here. So just to have said it, that's actually the one answer to this question. The government is busy expanding the state housing system that has worked well since it was established in 1993. The housing arrangement, with Statsbyk as property manager, has been expanded several times later by incorporating new ownership portfolios. Work is now under way to integrate prison property. Of course, the aim is better management of these properties and to work systematically to re-establish the lag in maintaining these properties. The representatives from the Right then ask that ownership in the university and higher education sector, which is currently managed by State Building, be transferred to a new management company under the Ministry of Knowledge. As you know, there is also a maintenance run on these properties, and it is important to find solutions that can ensure better maintenance. So we don't mean that the answer to that is even a new management company in a sort of state-owned civil sector, which will then have its organisations in Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim and Tromsø, as is the case if one should believe the proposers. More than one administrative body should not be maintained. The Government aims to establish clear guidelines for the treatment of state-owned construction projects and leases. In the event of local constraints, enterprises shall assess either a new state-owned construction project, rental in existing state-owned buildings or private market rental. In the case of private market rental, no specific requirements have been set for the purposes of assessing or considering whether the rental costs are covered within a fixed budget framework. It's true even if you're tied up for decades. It's clear that we need better management here, and it's working with the Department and the Government. However, the principal starting point will still be that the State should own so-called purpose building. So-called ‘competition buildings’ can be freely rented in the market under short-term contracts of from five to ten years, and the guidelines will include, inter alia,: address current concerns to be assessed in connection with the leases, inter alia: more stringent requirements for the analysis, documentation and assessment of alternatives. And there should be political control of leases when the economic scale exceeds certain values. The representatives from the Right then take up the proposal to set up a state-owned advisory body to separate the advisory and supplier roles, which are currently held in State Buildings and Defence Buildings. When we draw up the new guidelines, it's a proposal that we're going to consider, but I don't have the answer to that per. today. The right also wants greater financial flexibility in state-owned buildings in order for users to be better provided with local facilities when the issue of renting has been resolved. As I see it, today's currant system works in a good and flexible way so that state tenants get the locals they need, when they can cover rents within their own financial framework. Investments in new construction projects must otherwise be part of the overall priority of this government, as it is for all governments. Right-wing think it should be further worked on proposals on how a more competitive part of the state-building business can be launched. The State is a major buyer and is an operator that exploits the market both in terms of construction and in terms of operating its own property, in order to achieve the lowest possible costs based on the quality requirements as liabilities. Low maintenance costs are not a goal in themselves. We have enough examples that this doesn't necessarily mean that the buildings are well maintained, and that in retrospect it's cost-intensive. The government believes that one can achieve cost-effective solutions without separating own companies to operate state-owned property. For Statsbygg's part, it's about 70 pst. of the costs are related to services that state buildings buy in the market, and what I think is a good place to lie, and so we will continue to operate our buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e109	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e112	We have now been given a long list of proposals that the Council of State will not implement. Then we've got a list of proposals that the Council of State will consider. I would like to have the Council of State's list of actions that she has done, things that have been carried out in the nearly two and a half years that have passed when the Council of State has been responsible for this sector, and that have given cheaper and better state management of the construction and property business.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e117	The former government put on the table proposals for a reform, on the basis that there was a need to reform state construction and ownership. This government has not said that they share that vision, on the contrary. State-owned buildings are a well run state-owned enterprise, politically run, i.e. policy-makers take the most important decisions. And so it should still be. This government does not need either to suspend competition or to release anything more from the State Building Act. On the contrary, we believe that the most effective and economically most cost-effective way of operating State Building is to maintain State Building as a state enterprise - not to create more levels of government, as the previous government would, but on the contrary let State Building operate and manage these property as it is today, including the prison estates, which we are now in the process of taking over. When it comes to operational personnel, it is most effective to ensure that the repairs that are to be done take place economically defensively, to have people who know how to build.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e127	I record that the Council of State pointed out that she is well pleased with the state of things. My question to the Council of State is: does not the facts show that such is not the case - does the Council of State care about taking account of the facts that make it not as good as the Council of State points out? And doesn't the Council of State see the need to change the view of what the condition of things is today?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e136	The maintenance run that we have, for example. in prison property and in universities and higher education institutions, not primarily from the organisation, but from a lack of funding over many years. And let me remind you that for the last eight years, we've basically had civil education ministers -- to take one example. Now, when we move the prison property into the housing system, it will be out of the budget for the cottage if it has economic consequences that lead one to do something about the maintenance situation. I cannot answer that today - I have no desire to answer it today. But it's no longer going to maintain itself by separating and creating even more new levels of government. There will be greater costs, because there will be even a state level of government to be financed, and there will be red tape - something I cannot understand that the Progress Party is in favour - versus bringing together everything in one state building and ownership agency, as we have in State Building, with long traditions to operate effectively and have economic defence operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e143	I have great respect for the fact that the Council of State defends the fact that they have not implemented what our government has proposed, that they disagree politically with what we proposed, and that they have thus chosen to say no to savings of 1-2 billion kroner because they disagree with some of those proposals. I asked what they had done instead, and then I got the answer that there was nothing. But in the first post of the Council of State, she went through a number of suggestions that the Government had in mind. My question is: why is none of the proposals that the Council of State now says they have to be evaluated implemented in the two and a half years since the proposals were submitted, already in the 2006 budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e150	When the Right refers to the savings potential in its proposals, there is every reason to question it. So the previous government has driven the state to a fragmentation, and - what should I say - there has been a very unclear pattern in government administration after the Bondevik government's fragmentation and the release of state enterprises. The Storing has been proven and requested in the setting of St.meld. No 17 for 2006-2007, including The Right and the Advance Party are asking the Renewal Ministar to take a larger collective and coordinating action on e.g. IT policy, precisely because one has a fragmented and unwieldy central government. To believe that the answer is more freedom from state enterprises, and also to believe that it's more economical, I'm directly in disagreement with Right in, and therefore we haven't implemented it, and we're not going to implement it. There will never be a red-green government's policy; there is right policy at its worst. I can't see any reason why we were going to implement it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e157	The cord shift is over. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 2696]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e174	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and will be allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will suggest that there is no opportunity to change lines, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e181	During this period, we have had several opportunities to debate an important topic - violence in close relations. This time it is a proposal for a representative that specifically affects the theme of women being killed by partners or former partners. Life doesn't always get the way you've been thinking. Kari of 25 finds the man in his life, Ola. They get married and have children. He gets violent against her for trifles, he's jealous. It's hard for Kari to share this with others. Isn't it a little my own fault, I'm provoking him a little bit, right? The relationship is difficult, she loves him, or does she? Are there practical things that make her stay in the relationship, like a house, a car, and not least a façade to be kept? One day Ola goes too far, he's so violent that Kari dies of the damage, he kills her. Again, three young children have lost their mother and have a father in prison. What can society do to prevent this from happening? In Norway, on average, we have ten such cases during the year in which a woman is killed by a partner or ex-partner. As VG's report last year showed, there were 72 women killed in this way in the last seven years. These are high numbers. In the case of violence in close relationships, there are also great numbers of darkness. The government is taking this seriously, and the representative proposal from Dørum is a little too late. For before Christmas, the government presented an action plan against violence in close relations, turning point. Here, there are 50 measures to help combat violence in close relationships. Measure No. 34 goes directly to the proposal we have before us today. The government wants to identify these killing cases, and in its efforts to identify risk factors and develop prevention measures. As far as I know, the work is well under way and more departments are involved. Work will be completed during 2009. Paragraph 17 to paragraph 20 of the plan focuses on the perpetrator. The government wants the spiral of violence to be broken, by strengthening the provision of treatment to the perpetrator. Work Alternative to Violence, ATV, operates, is an important contribution here. The Committee is unanimous in its view that it is important that the offers made to the perpetrators of violence be made nationwide, as is also set out in the action plan. If we are to succeed in reducing violence in close relationships, which in some cases ends in killing, it is important that we work at a cross-border level. Police, clerics, health sisters and educational institutions such as teacher and socio-economic education and crisis centres need to work together and get schooling on the theme. It is also dedicated to a central place in the action plan. The government has arranged for family violence coordinators in all police districts, and in the major cities teams are to be set up to assist smaller statesmen's offices in these matters. The government has done a lot in this area, and it is now important that the action plan measures are followed up. Although there are six departments involved in the plan, the Committee believes that it is helping to strengthen the fight against violence in close relations, as this work depends on broad cooperation between the various departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e200	Although this topic has been debated in this room very many times, I think we can't debate it often enough, as the situation is. It is important and positive, the proposal put forward by the proposers, and it is an important topic. Almost every week, we can read about tragic events that might have been avoided. We also know that it's a big social problem, and it's dark numbers that are very big. We all have to stand together to find the measures that can limit violence in close relationships. Prevention and awareness raising are important. I am very pleased with the action plan presented by the Government, turning point, and we have said that before. It's important that this not only becomes a nice plan, but that it is realized and not just put in a drawer. Many of the measures mentioned in these points are due to enter into force in 2008. Although some may think that we are at the beginning of 2008, we are soon halfway through the year. It would have been tempting to ask the Council of State for the status of at least some of these proposals. We know that it says that every police district should have a family violence coordinator, but then we also know that not every police district has it. It's also about the fact that there's going to be stately gatherings for the police districts, which we know isn't realized yet. It is important to take stock of this work. Then there is a point to have a red button or an alarm button to get in touch quickly. We don't know that yet. But it's important that this doesn't just become a plan, because now we've come to April, and it's not long before summer. Suddenly it goes against Christmas, and then it's important that we have at least started to focus on it. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State to explain a little about the status of the individual cases. As the rapporteur said, women are often killed by their former partner. Often this has family reasons, conflicts that might have been avoided if the family had received help and follow-up. It is important to identify risk factors and develop prevention measures. It is then important that the same focus is placed on those departments that may be affected by such work. It's not always enough that we who sit on the Justice Committee or the Justice Department have the right focus, because there are many times more other departments that also have to have the same focus. Proposals from the Left concern the creation of an independent Commission to review the killing cases caused by violence in close relations over the last ten years. It seems that the Progress Party is a very important and good proposal. That is why we have a note in which we support this, so that we can perhaps learn something, find similarities and put preventive measures into the vulnerable groups. Perhaps there has been a mistake both in the Progress Party and the Left, which has not promoted a separate proposal on it. But we just have to hope and believe that paragraph 34 of the Government's action plan covers that up. The Council of State has also stated in the letter to the Committee that it has decided to identify killing cases in order to identify risk factors. That's very good, and I hope that's really realized. This is an important topic, which we often debate, but we should all want us not to have this debate. But the reality is now that you can never have it debated enough, because it happens every week. Let's hope now that this isn't just a debate, but that our commitment can contribute to this topic coming out of daylight and not just within the four walls of the house, and that no one responds. Therefore, it is important that we all engage in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e219	Fortunately, it is rare that we have cases with such a tragic and serious background as this case. The last harvest of women killed by former or current spouses, cohabitants or girlfriends in the last ten years was a strong reminder that the work to prevent and combat violence in close relationships is a major and important societal task that requires efforts on a broad front. Violence against women is a violation of fundamental human rights, where the safest place for many, namely the home, for these women have been turned into the most unsafe. Society can never accept women being beaten, threatened or killed. If we are to be able to prevent, the topic must be the subject of much more public debate. The number of killings was probably shocking knowledge for most who followed the newspaper coverage last harvest. Decisive governments have taken different initiatives in the last ten years, and even though there has been a good deal in this field, we must note that this has not been done enough. This is also an area where there are no specific policy lines, and I think that is a strength for this important work. The Stoltenberg Government Action Plan, turning point, which focuses on combating all forms of violence in close relationships, is a good starting point for further action. The right agrees that the proposal under consideration today has been implemented through the action plan and will stress the importance of giving this screening work a high priority, so that we can gain more knowledge that can enable us to overcome as many abuses as possible. I also assume that the Government will develop a strategy for disseminating the results when available. I also want to underline the specific challenges we face, both in terms of monitoring and combating violence against minority women. The difference between Norwegian women and minority women is that Norwegian women have greater knowledge of their rights. They often have a bigger network and know where to turn for help. Many minority women live in isolation and large families, without much contact with Norwegian society. Not everyone masters Norwegian, and this makes it difficult for them to take steps to stop the violence. The right is therefore pleased that the Vendunkt action plan also contains a number of measures aimed at improving the situation for these women. Finally, I would like to stress the need to keep a continuous focus on this issue of violence in close relations. The debate can certainly be seen as both demanding and unpleasant, but it is equally necessary to raise awareness of this societal problem. As politicians, we can change the rules of the game, but it's actually up to society as a whole to develop healthy attitudes and to distance ourselves from violence.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e234	It is a very important social problem that proposers address. I commend them for their commitment. There's never enough engagement around such a serious problem. We all know that women are subjected to violence from their men, either past or present partners. The place that should be the safest for them, namely their own home, is unfortunately documented to be the most dangerous for them. The person a woman should be able to trust most, namely her own partner, is, according to the statistics, the greatest danger to her. The numbers' speech is ready. According to Kripos figures, a total of 32 people were killed in Norway in 2007. Eight of them were women who were killed by their partners or former partners. It is therefore very important that society keeps a constant and focused focus on this. Therefore, on 13 December last year, the Government presented an action plan against violence in close relations. In this action plan, the Government goes through the issue in depth and presents 50 concrete and measurable actions. Six departments are responsible for the implementation of these measures. In the action plan, we find measures that have a preventative effect, but also help for women who are unfortunately subjected to violence. In the Action Plan, the Government has a clear and heavy focus on research and empowerment in the service sector. There we find, among other things: the following measures: it shall be implemented: ‘a mapping of killer cases in which the perpetrator is the victim’s current or former partner’. And on. ‘The objective is to identify the risk factor and develop prevention measures.’ I therefore feel that the intentions of the proposers are well taken into account in the action plan, which has already been implemented. We, as I said, must stand together against this obscenity. This review is due to be completed in 2009, and we're looking forward to it. I feel the need to comment on the comments of the Progress Party in the matter. The Progress Party notes that ‘there is too little focus on the victim’ in the Action Plan against violence in close relations. I find this statement strange. If we read the action plan, the Government already writes in the introduction: ‘If we are to be able to combat violence in close relations, it is not enough to strengthen the offer to the victims after the violence has taken place. We will prevent and combat all forms of violence in close relationships through multiple approaches.’ And then the government writes about seven approaches, and the first one sounds like this: ‘The victims of violence in close relationships shall be ensured the necessary assistance and protection.’;» Of course, it is up to the Progress Party to choose how much time they will spend getting into this important document, but I find it strange that they write that ‘there is too little focus on the victim’. It says that they have either not read the action plan properly or promote unfounded claims. The seriousness of the matter deserves a higher level of debate than it did. We must, as I said, stand together against this obscurity, and we must all circle around the action plan presented by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e267	I'm recording that a joint committee supports a review of killings that is the result of selected in close relationships. In the Central Party, we support such an approach and are proud of the Government's action plan against violence in close relations. It is crucial that we succeed in the work against power, that we work systematically, and that the Government, with the Minister of Justice at the head, assume a coordinating responsibility. The action plan reflects the complexity of the work against election, because it involves so many disciplines, departments, agencies, etats and not least individuals and families. That being said, I'll at the same time warn you what we can call pay-as-you-go. By that I mean that there's a lot we already know about power in close relationships, and then the particular choice of right against women, where the power that ends in killing, is the main theme today. In other words, by a review we will strengthen our knowledge and hopefully find new tools, but it is also such that we know enough today to strengthen the tools that already exist. I mean the Vending Point Action Plan is an excellent working document, with a balanced starting point between distribution and action. The fourth year’s evaluation shows that we are doing well to implement the action plan. The establishment, or establishment, of regional resource centres for selected, traumatic stress and suicide prevention in all regions is an uplifting example of this. We know that men who are helped to deal with their own acts of power are becoming less selective, and the work of making the provision of these men must continue nationwide. We know that violence is more common in families with social and economic problems, and therefore the fight against poverty must continue and escalate. We know that good public health, prevention and treatment of mental disorders give less power. We know that drug problems are often a contributing cause of violence, and we know that some men react with power when they feel violated by a breakup. Many of the killed women know we were killed because they wanted to leave the party. Men themselves have to take part in the work against sexually discriminatory attitudes that have clear footholds in our society. It has been, and should be, critical focus on honor codes in parts of the minority environment. But I want to warn against contributing to a social debate that puts a tabloid minority stamp on power in close relationships. It's time we also dare to ask questions about whether there's anything about the sum of cultures in Norway that creates stalls that makes too many Norwegian men kill their partners or let them live in security every year. For example, why does this answer? 29 pst and 29 pst, respectively. and 24 pst. by Norwegian men that women themselves have full or partial responsibility for sexual assault if they have drunk or have gone alone along a rough road? This was done by Norwegian men in Amnesty International Norway and Reform - the men's resource centre - research carried out by TNS Gallup last year. And why do four out of ten Norwegian men in the same investigation think that women who do not break out of any particular circumstances, to a large or very large extent themselves, are responsible for being subjected to power? It's a dangerous short-circuit, which shows that as a society we send too much of the wrong signal when it comes to what is understandable or acceptable behavior. For victims, it brings shame and guilt; for those in power, it can lead to self-justice; for those in the environment, it can legitimize indifference. Finding and removing the reason for this misunderstanding is part of the deterrent work that is decisive if we are to be able to fight against power in close relationships. Finally, I would also like to use the option of putting the search light on whether part of the election in close relation is getting enough attention, namely, chosen against the elderly, which is also part of the killing statistics. I'm worried about this. Experiences from Vern for seniors offices in Oslo, Bærum and Trondheim and comparisons with other countries show that between 3 and 5 pst. by all older persons, they are subjected to some form of assault. It is about 25,000 older people in Norway who are being assaulted by their own relatives and in their own homes. There are too few municipalities today that have made Vern a permanent service for the elderly. In the Central Party, we have expectations of a national contact telephone for the elderly exposed to violence, which is now being planned in the Social and Health Directorate. We hope this will help a part of the victims, and we will attend to a focus on that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e293	In VG 12 November last year, it was said that 72 women have been killed by their men in the last seven years. These are gloomy statistics and an extreme expression of violence in close relationships. It is important to point this out because the proximity of victims and perpetrators makes violence more hidden, more traumatic and more harmful to both children and adults. The left promoted the proposal we are debating today, because we believe it needs to be done more to increase knowledge of violence in close relations, to prevent, but also to expose violent family relations and to help those who are subjected to this kind of violence. I want to make it clear that the purpose of our proposal was not to find scapegoats or in another way place blame, but to learn, so that we can more easily expose family violence and put in action. By reviewing these killing cases, I think you can get a useful insight that can help prevent violence in close relationships in a better way in the future, hopefully so that killing can be prevented. Heavy violence and killings rarely come as lightning from the clear sky. Most likely, violence has been for a while, and many of those who are delayed have been in contact with the private and public auxiliaries before violence ended in killing. For this reason, it is important that in matters like this one not only focus on the monstrous killings, but put them into a broader context in order to detect and prevent violence in close relationships. In recent years, it has been more acceptable to talk about violence in close relationships - fortunately. In the past, this was a little discussed topic, and often a lot of shame and guilt were attached to this violence. The left suggested that an independent commission of professional breadth be appointed that could go through these matters in a thorough manner. Following the promotion of the proposal, the Government presented its action plan against violence in close relations, turning point. There are many good measures in this plan, and I am very pleased that the Government continues to work against violence in close relations, on which both the Bondevik I and Bondevik II governments had a strong focus. I am therefore pleased that we are now getting a complete review of these matters. In particular, we are concerned with understanding the number of families who have received a health or social offer before it has ended, the number of men who have gone to treatment, and the number of police reported for violence in the past. Violence in close relationships cannot be accepted and, in order to prevent this violence, increased knowledge and efforts are needed in many areas. We in the Left are therefore very pleased that the Government agrees with us that the issues where women have been killed by a current or former partner should be reviewed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e309	I want to start where the representative of East Germany also started - by describing some of the factors that characterise this type of violence and this type of serious assault and - what underlies the proposal - this type of killing. The background that the Government has chosen to put such a strong pressure on this quickly, is, first of all, that when we face violence in close relations, there is very serious violence we see -- both threats and acts of violence are very serious. Some people think it's just about earlobes. The second is that this happens in an arena where people have the right to feel safe, namely at home, and this happens very often at home. The third is that there is a very strong element of a breach of trust in this type of violence and threats, which makes the wound not only become big physical but also psychological. On behalf of the Government, I am very happy that we all, when we discuss these questions here in the Storting, stand together. It is unusually important to legitimise measures, but it is also the only prerequisite for raising a broad societal debate on such issues. I hope that this debate - but also precisely that you go in and find reasons and chart, among other things. The killings - will help us maintain the focus on this. It's very necessary. We go on a torch train, we organize people's meetings and we react when we see something happening in the public space. But it's rare we see that assault on women, and especially on children, gets the attention that that type of crime actually demands. I am also very pleased that the Committee in its position now writes that the Vendipunkt action plan is being adopted and supports all the proposals outlined in the plan. This is a plan that is supposed to apply over a four-year period, but we have it busy, and we want to get the most implemented of it. The fact that an overall committee in the Grand Duchy is now expressing its support for the measures helps the Government to support the implementation of the measures and to ensure that it does not become the case that the representative Lode was involved, that we almost have an investigative liability lowered over all of us. Let me then just relate a few words to the progress of the respective actions. Both the system of free consultation with a lawyer before submitting a notification, measures 5, and the changes in the system of compensation for victims of violence in which children bearing witness to violence are entitled to compensation, measures 3 have already been implemented. We are also well in the process of setting up our own family violence teams in the large police districts, measures 9. The last reported figure to the undersigned was that we were up in eleven police districts that already had it. That's good. The training of family violence coordinators, which is now being transformed into a full position, is under way through regional collections, measures 32. A separate supervisor on police work on violence in close relationships is also under preparation, action 33. An own phone for victims of crime is right around the corner, action 16. The telephone is connected to our crime victims advisory offices, and could be particularly helpful to victims of violence in close relationships. So the Stortinget is well-known that we have worked actively to establish children's homes, action 1. It follows the planned plan. In addition to the two we've already established, in Hamar and Bergen, it's our ambition to have three further children's homes in place during 2008. These will, as we know before, be located to Tromsø, Trondheim and Kristiansand. With regard to the proposal for a representative to review killing cases, Action 34, we have started a work through the Directorate of Police to find out how this is going to happen. As several representatives have been involved, we already have a lot of expertise, especially in the national centres of excellence and also in the regional centres. The question of which body is most suitable for carrying out such a review is now under consideration and also determines the scope of the monitoring and the clarifications to be carried out. Then I would also say that when it comes to the expansion of Alternatives to Violence, it is closely followed up. It's important. The Foundation Alternative to Violence has a central role in the work. In 2008, i.e. the current year, we will establish three additional treatment options in the Alternative to Vold, as well as those already established.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e324	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e327	As several speakers have said, the Judicial Committee has given its full support to the implementation of the actions of the proposed Action Plan Vendunkt, which deals with precisely selected issues in close relations. There is a particular emphasis on the importance of strengthening the supply of the authority, as identified in actions 17-20 in the action plan. This is probably the most important component of the prevention work, as the Minister of Justice was also involved. The selection tool needs help to change the selection spiral and the selection pattern. We're all here saying that the choice in close relationships cannot be accepted, and that it's important to get focus on this topic. It's important based on multiple terms. The victim of the vald knows that she's not alone -- that's usually a her, and that's why I say her. The victim sees that society doesn't accept it, and the victim knows about their dishes, where she can turn. There is also a pressure on neighbors and family - one should not tea. Killing, and the special killing that is carried out by a related person, is a cruel crime. It is important to obtain knowledge that can be used as a basis for developing effective methods to prevent killing. This was also the background for action 34 in the proposed action plan. So yes, the government is on, and it's focusing on this serious topic. Next week I'll be at the IPU conference. The theme selected in the near relationships appears. But many people who want to talk about this as a housework, a family affair. It isn't! I want to tell you about an example from Cambodia, which we heard about at the committee that we had for approx. A month ago. There was a man who had mistreated his wife for many years, but one day he went too far, and then he killed his wife. He almost didn't get punishment at all, because it was a pity for him who had such a difficult wife that she had to be disciplined hard. On the other hand, they suggested that women who took their husband's life in self - defense were given a long prison sentence. That is why, at the IPU Conference, I want to focus on what we are doing in Norway, on the proposed action plan, and on the fact that our Minister of Justice has so much focus on power in close relations that he has not only presented a 50-point action plan, but has also written a book on the theme ‘The Bear Sleeps’.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e343	It is no surprise that there are three representatives from the Left who are promoting this proposal for a representative, because, like the Progress Party, you care. It's good that we still have the ability to care. And it's commendable that Left raises this theme up and down. Redsel is the mother of all violence, sings Peter Gabriel. Besides being an unlikely beautiful song, it has a much deeper meaning. If we reflect a little bit on this, what's the reason why someone in close relationships is doing violence, whether it's with death or not? It's about fear: fear of loss of honor, fear of loss of self-esteem, fear of loss of security, fear of loss of self-respect, fear of loss of family and fear of loss of word. It's about loss, and it's about fear. Personally, I think that the departments that are going to work on this, and that are also going to review the killings that have occurred in the light of violence in close relationships, will probably conclude that we need to help and prevent the offender's fear. We should probably much more, in addition to the four points in the turning point, draw Alternatives to Violence into this work. I was very pleased and very much appreciated that the Council of State mentioned that three new offices were to be opened for Alternatives to Violence. There is also an ongoing action in the Council of Europe, and I am in that committee and the subcommittee. There is also an ongoing action under the auspices of the United Nations. It shows us that this problem is global, although Somalia in the UN Women's Commission, which was a month ago, said they had no problem with this. There was no female violence in Somalia. This is, of course, talking about the Somalis' view of women and violence, like what the Cambodian representative said. I am pleased that in the Action Plan on combating violence in close relations, the turning point, there are 50 points to end in 2009. I hope we can finish this in 2009, but I hope that the work will not end, because I think there are many, many years left before we can get this done. I see that after point 34, a screening of killings by current or former partners will be carried out to assess risk factors and develop prevention measures. I hope that you will have the opportunity to follow the whole action plan through the different departments and that this will not be an action plan that will be scrapped. Every day, women die in Norway, in Europe and in the rest of the world, of the damage that her partner or ex-partner has done to her. Every one of them is one too much.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e367	The whimsical sounds we hear outside the hall come in a certain contrast to the serious theme we're discussing. But it's probably also so that behind many fine facades in different homes happens exactly what we're discussing here, without anyone really being aware of it. What you don't see, you don't know. It is also not revealed to the extent that it should, which the case-rapporteur was also concerned with. I can in fact, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, join in what the case rapporteur said. It is also, as the Minister of Justice says, incredibly important that there is a common political pressure and responsibility that follows with this attitude, and all the points to which the action plan refers must also be manifested in the follow-up when we adopt budgets, among others. On my own account, I would like to point out a few points in the action plan that may go a little further in relation to close relationships than you immediately think about. First, point 7 of the action plan, namely legal certainty for young children aged 0 to 3, as it says, dies suddenly and unexpectedly. I am very pleased that there is now to be a mandatory offer for a site-of-death study. It's in the hands of the health service. Here's a prescription work that I now understand is going on. It is incredibly important from our point of view that forensic competence is also included in this work. Here we're talking about those that no one else is talking about, the smallest. Then, too, I would like to point out what it says, among other things. referred to in point 26 on ‘Children living with family violence’. Here we have had different projects -- some of them started up by the previous government -- for children who are witnesses to family violence. We know, unfortunately, that if that happens, it's very likely that it goes on to the next generation, that this becomes hereditary. It is all the more important to put in place measures to avoid it. So the Minister of Justice said children's houses. We are very pleased that the Minister of Justice has followed it up. I just wish it were also spent on a children's home in Oslo-Akershus, the largest region in our country. Here, the Oslo bench and the Akershus bench have met Redd Barna, who would have liked to see such an offer set up in our popular district.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e380	I want to praise the Council of State, which for a long time has raised a topic that has very rarely received the political focus it deserves. The book for which the Council of State has been the editor, ‘The Bear Sleeps’, has made a strong impression on all those who have read it. It is a very important contribution to a pedagogical understanding of what this really is about, because it is about individuals who experience the most integrity-affecting that can be thought of, namely, violence and abuse from those they should be most proud of. I thought here at the end I would take up a theme that is a little paradoxical when there is killing in close relationships. The consistent media review is different. When it comes to men with a migrant background, it's about honorary drap, but in the case of the Nordics most, it's about family draperies. I think that leads to a major problem when we are going to debate this. It's really about the exact same thing, that you're adding a distinction depending on ethnicity for what this is all about. The action is equal to. It's a violation of human rights. It's about a person being addicted to using violence to create control of the environment and of other people. If we also use such a distinction in the public debate, we're probably not going to solve the problems for too many. We need to have a common strategy, regardless of whether there are people with a different ethnic background, or whether there are people with a so-called Norwegian ethnic background. Honorary drapery and family tragedy are exactly the same, but an artificial distinction is made in terms of assault and gross violence. For children, the effect of war versus violence in close relations has been evaluated. It's actually the way everyone would think that being at war would be a lot worse, but then you're sitting in the bomb rooms talking to each other about what you're experiencing. You experience it with someone else. When it comes to violence in close relationships, you don't have to talk about it. The smallest possible way is to know about it, and it happens within four walls. So some studies show that children can actually do more harm to violence in close relationships than to war. It's not to wish for war, but it says something about maybe, like the Council of State said, you have to have an even greater focus on what this does to children mentally. Otherwise, I would like to support Mr Syversen's request for a children's home in Oslo-Akershus. It has been proposed in the context of the budgets. It has been voted down, but there is a majority comment from the last budget, where you open it. On the right, we expect funds to be put in place, so that we can also have a children's home in Oslo-Akershus at the latest in connection with the revised budget. We have great hopes of being able to shake it out of the sleeve, not least on the basis of this debate that has taken place here.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e391	I just want to comment on a few of the points that have come up now. First of all, it is amazing that all the political parties in Norway represented on the Stortinget are behind the 50 points. I just have to be allowed to repeat it. It's not often we're in such a situation. It also gives us the opportunity to bring this into all the groups where we are. Bring the plan! Bring the measures! Travel those debates, because we need to get people out to pattern in this case! Whether there are local action plans out in the municipalities, out in the counties or elsewhere, we have a big driving role. I do what I can every day when it comes to that particular question. So the representative of Seventeen raises questions about legal certainty for children. There has been a crucial point in the plan. The deathplace surveys we have now agreed that we should have, have been a long debate around. It was necessary to cut through politically when this was the case. For reasons of legal certainty, these site-of-death studies are particularly important in order to identify the cause of the death of children, without troubling the parents who experience the loss of children, for example. in the death of a cripple. We see that we have a model where, among other things, forensics are central. It is not our intention that the forensics should no longer be involved. Quite the opposite. I think we can do it quite simply, using the model that we had as a trial scheme, where several recognized forensic practitioners did a very good job. So to children's home in Oslo. We're going to set up three children's houses this year, and let me say it like this: the fourth children's house we're going to open, we have to open it in Oslo. So we're going to use every opportunity in the future to get it into place. It is not on my side of political will. I believe that the fourth must remain in Oslo, also for capacity reasons. I totally agree with Redd Barna. I fully agree with those who raised that question. At the same time, this is a new reform and a new way of thinking, and we need some time to establish these, but I'm going to promise that I'll do what I can to get it done as quickly as possible. Then I want to say just a few words to the representative Woldseth, who is engaged in European Council work. We have invited all the Justice Ministers represented in the Council of Europe to Tromsø in 2009. So it's going to be a big international event in Tromsø. What we're going to have as our main theme is violence in close relationships. I'm asking everyone to notice. It gives us an opportunity to also mark this internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e404	I'm so lucky that I'm the next head of the board of Hønefoss crisis center. It's the country's finest crisis center. With the state's 80 p.m. funding and additional state-funded legal assistance, there are very many of us who get help. Nevertheless, four out of ten move back to the perpetrator. It's good that we have crisis centers, because we're helping after all six out of ten, but what we see is probably just the top of the iceberg. Some come suggested at night with what they have, in a carrier bag, and half of those who are in crisis centres in Henefoss, are of foreign origin. Many of them have married Norwegian men who pick up wives here and there, marry, beat them down, get divorced and find themselves a new wife, who also ends up in the crisis center. We have bankruptcy quarantines in the case of financial misdemeanours, but no quarantine for Norwegian men who get married again and again, and switch again and again. That's why there has to be even more transparency about the face of violence, about the damage of violence and about the human rights that we actually have. And there's got to be greater acceptance for the neighboring cortex to help stigmatize, but also help. That is why I also hope, when the Council of State now says that more centres for Alternatives to Violence are to be set up, that there may also be one for Henefoss - at least I have to ask for it to be assessed - because we will never get this to life without providing extensive treatment assistance to those who beat.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e409	There are so many good posts here, and I get so engaged that I can't get out of the hall. What Brørby's representative points out is the problem with the women who move back to the perpetrator. I just want to think a little bit about what's the reason for that. I think some of those women have lived with violence for a number of years. You don't move to a crisis center the first time you get hit, usually you don't. A lot of them have virtually no confidence in themselves at all and don't think they're fixing it. There are some incredibly strange ties that are connected between men who beat, and women who are being beaten. It's kind of a Stockholm syndrome, I think, moving. We have to be very vigilant to judge the women who move back to their violent men. The debate is often such that the jam, she's been beaten, she's been in a crisis center, and so her life ends with the partner or the ex-partner killing her. And then you say that she can almost owe herself. I think we have to watch ourselves well to stigmatize women who move home to violent men, because something happens to them. There's something happening to a party that lives long with another person who commits violence. In the case of children of women living in a crisis centre who move back to their violent husband, it is the case, as we have decided here in the Stortinget through the Family and Culture Committee, that crisis centres should be subject to child protection obligations if women with children move back to men where the husband is a perpetrator of violence. So we've kind of taken care of it. I must say, and I must be allowed to say so that the Council of State hears it, that I am terribly proud of the action plan. It is even translated into English and is called ‘The Turning Point’. It's been very good to be first in class right in this field. When we were in the United Nations, in the Women's Commission there, and also in the Council of Europe, in the subcommittee on violence in close relations, I have been able to present this action plan. It has been unison that this has been an unusually good work. That's why it's so incredibly important that we can implement as many of the 50 points as possible. I can assure the SV representative that we have read the action plan. We have read it in both Norwegian and English, and we have read it well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e422	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Fotation, see page 2697]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e440	Oslo is the home of half a million people, and many visit the capital in job relationships. The city is also a popular destination for weekends and holidays for the North as well as for foreigners. That's why it's essential how the center experiences. Of course, it should be as safe to live and travel in Oslo as elsewhere in Norway. It is a fact that the crime scene and the police challenges in Oslo differ considerably from other cities and towns. Then it is the government's and Storting's duty to take the necessary steps to enable the Oslo police to carry out their tasks in the best possible way. This means that the Oslo Police must be provided with enough crews and resources to provide good public service and that matters involving a known perpetrator are not arranged, crews and resources that allow the police to be visible throughout the city. In 2005, when the Stortinge dealt with the repeal of the former Law on Prosecution, it was assumed that local police regulations could be given to adapt to the specific needs of an area or part of the country. The idea was to be able to face local problems with locally anchored solutions. That's not how it's done. In recent years, parts of the Oslo Centre have faced significant problems with disruptive sexual services, ongoing begging and sales. Many people experience insecurity when it is no longer natural to walk in peace in public space. Growing problems with aggressive behaviour from beggars and prostitutes in Oslo Centre were the background to the fact that a year ago the Right proposed amendments to the Oslo Police Code, so that the police could have a clear basis for rejecting aggressive and abusive behaviour, among other things. beggars and prostitutes. Despite the unsustainable situation, among others: along Karl Johan's gate, Røre's proposal was clearly rejected by the red-green government parties. Nor did it help that the Oslo City Council had received the approval of the city council, including the Labour Party, for proposals for new police regulations. The proposed changes were not approved by the Ministry of Justice. In extending the penal order against trafficking in human beings to organised begging, the Ministry of Justice stated: ‘The need for a narrow extension of the legal basis for local police regulations may have been reinforced as a result of the decriminalisation of general detention. The Ministry has therefore considered proposing to extend the legal basis for local authorities' access to the statutes of the Police Act § 14 paragraph. 1st@item: inlistbox Such a change would allow those municipalities which need to expel persons who significantly disturb the environment to make provision for this in their statutes. However, the Ministry has concluded that it is not desirable to present such a proposal now. Police will continue to have access to expel persons who beg and at the same time commit criminal offences, such as by acting threateningly or by disrupting general peace and tranquillity or driving. The introduction of an option to expel beggars who do not commit a criminal offence may result in decriminalisation of no major practical significance. A clear need for deportation should therefore be identified before any legislative proposal is made on it and, where appropriate, conditions should be imposed for the expulsion of persons concerned to significantly disturb or disturb their environment. The Ministry is therefore committed to reconsidering the issue when the lifting of the prohibition of begging and the change in the penal code against trafficking in human beings has been effective for some time.» It is Right's view that we have come to the point that there is a clear need for deportation as has been the case in Oslo. I therefore hope that the Minister of Justice will signal today that the Ministry of Justice will review the case and say yes to the changes in the law of the law of Oslo politicians and the police in this city have been raised. The episode of a magnification representative just before Christmas last year makes it apparent that the development in Oslo is going in the wrong direction. The problems in the center have persisted, because the police have not been able to follow up. A large influx of foreign nationals coming to Norway with prostitution as their sole purpose has led to a completely different nature and dimension to the problem than in the past. The right, therefore, again appeals to the Minister of Justice that police and local authorities are given sufficient legal basis to actively address this problem in an effective way. In the summer of 2007, Mr. Stortingsrett Jan Bøhler came with an eye-catching play, where he asked Mayor Erling Lae to stop yelling at the police, but rather take his share of the responsibility for Oslo's problems. The play is, in my opinion, deeply unfair, for more than any other municipality, the Municipality of Oslo has committed itself in cooperation with the police to clean up illegalities in the outdoor industry, to get a clean taxi service and to make it safe to travel in the city anytime in the day. The prevention work of children and young people has been strengthened through the cooperation of the SALTO and yesterday the City Council received a separate message, ‘Security City’. It is my firm belief that local politicians have so absolutely taken their share of the responsibility to make Oslo a safe city. Local politicians must now be able to expect the State to do the same and set up with a police officer who is competent to carry out his duties in the capital of Norway. But where has it become by Jan Bøhler? Why doesn't he now ask the Government to provide increased resources to the Oslo Police? The amended police regulations should not be a sleep cushion for the police and the municipality, but should be a supplement where other instruments such as visible police, good lighting and other security measures have proved inadequate. However, security for everyone, including the prostitutes, requires greater resources for the police. The right has taken the consequences and, in its alternative budgets, has proposed a significant increase also to the Oslo Police. In the 2008 budget, the Government has informed that the real growth in the justice budget is down to 1 pst. versus 3 pst. the last year of the Bondevik II Government. There is little doubt that the pressure on the Oslo police is high, and they have many tasks as a result of the capital functions. They come to the top of the traditional police tasks, but without this reflecting well enough in the budget. As a result, in 2008, the police chief had to hold about 100 unaccompanied posts, and the percentage of clearance fell to 21 p.m. in 2007 and the number of remaining cases increased by about 21 p.m.. 2 000 to 10,500 cases, that the police only have the capacity to deal with a fraction of social security and tax fraud while the number of reported rapes increased, and gross thefts increased by 20 pst in 2006. in Oslo. This is according to the Evening Post four times more than in New York. This should give cause for concern to all in this room. The signal effect of a police force that is often cut short is devastating to social morality, giving rise to the feeling of insecurity among the majority of people. On the right, Oslo's population believes that there is a demand for a better police service and a larger police force capable of tackling the visible challenges facing the city in terms of aggressive beggars and prostitutes attacking people passing by.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e475	Listen to this: From 2000 to 2008, Oslo police districts have been strengthened by 52 p.m., from DKK 1 billion to DKK 1.5 billion. During the same period, tasks have been excluded, including: The alien and security unit of the police, who have moved to the PST. Last year, in 2007, Oslo Police District, in addition to compensation for salary-setting expenses, received an additional allocation of 77.6 million. kr. In 2008, i.e. the current year, Oslo Police Districts will have their budget strengthened by 73.6 million. kr from the aged budget in 2007. I am therefore not familiar with the description given by the representative, Mr Aspaker, that with our draft budget - and in so far as our draft budgets - we have proposed that more posts should be left open, and that there should be less visible police in the streets and less security for people. I have been carefully involved in budget deficits, and there is only one year since 2000, where there has been a proposed cut in the Oslo police force, and that was when the Right made its last state budget for 2006, when the Oslo police cut between 20 million. NOK 30 million. kr. Then the situation is that in Oslo in 2007, a profit of more than 40 million is reported. kr. So you're left with money. I believe that if we are to discuss security in Oslo, we are totally dependent on discussing money sizes, yes, but the debate on organisation, management and recruitment issues is over-mature for the Oslo police district. The problem now is that we lack people. One of the main reasons why there are available police posts not only in Oslo, but around Norway, is that we lack police personnel. That's the background of the government's decision to turn the tapes to the high school of police to record 432 students last year, and we're doing it this year. We have plans, and we've signaled, that we're going to try to move on up to next year. The problem is that the recording in 2003 and 2004 was so low that we are now so low that we are unable to cover up vacancies. We have to take that with us when we ask for more policemen in the streets of Oslo. In addition, I think it is unfortunate that there is so much negative focus on Oslo police districts. In my opinion, the district is doing the best it can, and we have many both officials and servants who are doing a glittering police operation in Oslo in many demanding fields. Good results are also achieved in several areas without necessarily referring to VG, Dagbladet and the Evening Post. They have major and important tasks as capital police. We see that in many areas, there is a great deal of good delivery in Oslo in terms of both trafficking, retrafficking, retrafficking, and more serious organised crime. I am therefore concerned, along with the other College of the Government, that the Oslo Police District should continue to have good framework conditions, and that we must work to make Oslo an even safer city. In this context, we have been particularly concerned with the prevention and resolution of profit crime, and that this is given priority. There's a percentage of clearance too low. On a national basis, we know that we have an explanation of these types of crimes, of 36,5 pst, while in Oslo, the clarification is 20,8 pst. This shows some of the challenges, but at the same time it shows that we are facing a very special situation in relation to the type of winning crime. Many of these winning crimes, which are reported to the police, relate to mobile phones, lost wallets, etc., which make it difficult for the Oslo police to obtain high levels of clarification. Here we have to put in action, and I am of the definite opinion that it is about getting more people in, but that it is also about new methods. It's the government's perception that increasing the use of DNA, which we're launching on 1 September of this year, will be one of the most important things. We know from the United Kingdom that the percentage of information has increased significantly in cases where the police use the DNA register in their investigation. The general percentage of intrusion clearance is approximately. 14 pst., and in case of an invasion where DNA traces are found, the clearance rate is 45 pst. These are 2005 numbers. We know that the reason for the low percentage of information in Oslo is complex. The police directorate supervised the Oslo Police District in September/October 2007. There is a lot of positive in the report, but there are also some areas where the Police Directorate, and I, believe that the district has opportunities to improve. This work is being closely followed up by the Police Directorate. So the question of law enforcement in Oslo. It is known that the City Council of Oslo adopted a new police code in 2006, including: that no one in or in the immediate vicinity of the public place must provide sexual services or engage in begging or selling which in an ongoing manner disturbs the general calm, order or movement. The police department was sent to the police department for confirmation. The Directorate found that that paragraph had been effectively opened to prohibit activities which were not prohibited. This is where we stand at the paradox. It was the previous government, including Right, who chose to decriminalize begging, and who suggested it to the Storting. They received broad support. And then you come over here and you say that you almost want to criminalize it through the back way. I fully agree with the previous Minister of Justice and, in particular, with the Right, who was in office during the last great period, that these problems must be dealt with mainly by means other than justice. I think it'll quickly be a resting place for us if we think we've solved the problem of prostitution and begging by a carnival criminalisation through police regulations. I believe that the Stortinget was brave when, in the last growing-up period, this was decriminalised on the basis of the Right's proposal by placing the responsibility where you really have the opportunity to do something about these groups. I do not belong to a government that believes it is right that we should use the strongest coercives, criminal policy instruments, against those who labor the most, namely those who must beg, and those who must sell their bodies. They are really calling for a completely different type of social policy measure, such as help to get a living, help to get a stay in the country, reflection period if you are exposed to trafficking, help to get into a different life, education and work. That is why we are reluctant to accept police regulations that actually recriminalise this type of activity. So it's my opinion that there's now reason to wait for the situation in particular regarding begging and prostitution, given that the proposal to ban the purchase of sexual services has now been consulted and is under work in the ministry. A ban here is likely to lead to the disappearance of street prostitutes from the areas where most people travel in evening and night hours. There are many concerns attached to it. We are aware of that. Intervention in these cases may be more difficult, but there will be an important signal effect, as is also stated in our consultation note. In this situation, in our opinion, there is little reason to reconsider the question of the possibilities for the municipality to regulate the provision of sexual services in its police code. A possible prohibition on the purchase of sexual services must, in my and the government's opinion, take effect for a time before we can again assess the need for changes of residence. It is unfortunate and regrettable that men are almost exposed to attacks by on-going prostitutes. Much of it is illegal activities that are already affected by criminal law. However, let's not lose focus on problems of sexual harassment. In our country it is a serious social problem that women are subjected to rape and sexual assault, cf. the previous debate. They are exposed both at night in public places and in private settings and within the family. This societal problem has the government high on the priority list, and we have, as we know, taken a number of measures. The fact that men in a limited area of Oslo Centre may occasionally experience discomfort does not appear in the same way as a major social problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e507	I guess I didn't get the answer I had hoped to get today, in the light of the fact that we're now going to a new summer season meeting -- the part of the year where there's even more activity out there. Although the Council of State has now indicated that there will be a law prohibiting the purchase of sex, this law has not yet come to the Stortinget, and that at least means that it is a little ahead of time. I still think that the Council of State is taking lightly and underestimating the challenges of Oslo as a city for those who live here, and for those who come to visit here. The picture that many tourists are left with is a Norway filled with prostitutes who almost cut after you -- I don't know how many times -- on the short road whether you come from the port area or you come from Oslo S, up Karl Johan's street. I do not disagree that the Oslo police in many fields are doing a very good job. But it is also equally clear that in many areas, Oslo police do not extend to, and I think that the Council of State went a long way in admitting that there is a significant potential associated with, for example, profit-criminality. He referred to the DNA reform that should be able to revolutionize that area in that way. I think it is important that we recognise that while the Oslo police have been given considerable resources, the rest of the Norwegian police have also been significantly increased in their budgets. The fact that the police have been given more resources has something to do with the overall development of crime in society. Not least, this house has been good at imposing new tasks on the police, because we believe that the police are an instance that can make a greater effort in several areas. But then they need more people. It is quite right, as the Minister of Justice says, that we should have liked to have had more fully trained police officers at the moment. But what he does nothing about, and that he could have done anything about if the police had had money, was employing more civilians. Even the police's own professional organizations now admit, and see, it would have been an advantage if you could have been relieved of some civilian tasks, so that policemen could have concentrated on what is actually police work. In addition, in the field of senior policy, we are at an early stage. You're doing some trials in Hordaland. This should instead have been a grip that had been taken for the whole country, and which had assured us a much heavier approach to that particular area. I still demand an approach from the Minister of Justice where he manages to have two thoughts in his head at the same time. So no matter what he says about appropriations for the police, it's true that the Right in the last seven-eight years has granted significantly more to the police than the Workers' Party and the current government have proposed to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e522	When discussing the possibility of getting better with the Oslo police, I think it would have been an incredibly great advantage for the political debate if we had agreed on the starting point. I feel like we're getting a little closer to the confession that the representative Aspaker came up with, that there's a need for people. Once you sit in a position as head of a department and head of Norwegian police, you have to assume that last year the Norwegian police and police districts put 250 million behind you. kr in unused funds. They now say that there is a need to bring in more people, but that they do not get applicants for the jobs. In my opinion, political pressure has to be focused not only on increasing admissions, but also on mobilizing people to apply to the Police College, so that we get people in. The representative Aspaker addresses two issues with which the Government is working very actively. There's something that we don't disagree about at all. Firstly, we have to exempt some police officers from performing civil duties. I hope that the resource situation in the police districts will actually also be used for it. The second is the senior measures. We need to use not only financial incentives, but also other incentives to make the seniors stand longer in the positions. The government has said that during the summer, via the police director, we are going to promote a Norwegian police crew plan, which I have great hopes for just being central when we are going to look at and assess the measures such as: will get more seniors to stay in the positions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e531	The interpellation refers to an important issue that Marianne Aasen Agdestein and Eirin Sund focused on a few months ago. It is totally unacceptable that men experience being attacked by prostitutes on the open street. The representative Aspaker still bombs when she ties this up with the law of Oslo. The police now have the necessary homes to deport people who act ‘threatful or disrupt the general peace and tranquillity or movement’. The representatives of Aasen Agdestein and Sund did not change the police regulations either, but that the police had to intervene to put an end to an unacceptable situation, which many have experienced at Karl Johan. In the interpellation, it is also claimed that the Government, through the State budget, states that police positions are still available. This is completely wrong. The main reason for not adding people to the vacancy is, as we have said very many times, that there are not enough policemen. In 2002 and 2003, when the Right was in government, only 240 students were recorded at the Police Sculpture. We still like this. Today, 432 students are being picked up, but it takes time to evict these policemen. In addition, the Oslo Police have been given increased monthly resources. In the period 2000-2008, there was an increase of 52 pst., 507 million. kr. That's a lot of money. In reality, the increase is even greater, because one has been moved out of tasks, for example: The bodyguard service, which consisted of approx. $60 million. kr. In the long term, with this red-green government's bet, we will get more visible police, both in Oslo and in the rest of the country, in the years to come. For the specific matter that we are discussing here today, I would also like to mention that we are now in the process of imposing a law ban on the purchase of sexual services. Laws have been out on the ears, and we in the Workers' Party have listened to the people who want such a law. I argued that Aspaker brought with him Right and would support this prohibition when it comes to Stortinget - unless this interference is today just an attempt to represent himself as a force for action, without being so. Or is it a double morality here, that it's okay locally, but not centrally? As you know, the Stortinget and Odelstinget have adopted new laws, not the municipalities. As I said, this government has allowed a lot of money to the Oslo police in the last few years. But Elisabeth Aspaker is today out in the Austrian broadcast and demands even more money to solve the problem. I will then show you a discussion post that Aspaker had printed in North Light on 10 March this year. There she writes: ‘Three years of red-green government show that ‘more money’ is not sufficient as a response. It is far more important that the money is spent in a wise and understanding manner.’ The only thing is that it might be nice to decide if one is for or against giving more money before one speaks up. The second is that I'm not quite saying that more money is not enough at all. The extra promises we've given the police have, in my view, been absolutely necessary, but it's obvious that the police have to look at the organization, so that we get even more police force out of every penny. This government has increased the budget for the police, and in addition we train more policemen, so that there can be more of them in the streets and more visible police. I would also like to point out that the Oslo police had money left in their budget last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e555	First of all, to the Minister of Justice. The Oslo police didn't make a profit of $40 million. - Thank you. - Thank you. - Thank you. It was money that was earmarked for special purposes, and that was not the purpose the police wanted to spend the money on. So the Minister of Justice must stop repeating from this pulpit. And then this boasted about 500 million. kr more to the Oslo Police in eight years. But it's not mentioned that the population growth in Oslo has been 80,000 in the same period -- and it's not just Mom's best child who's moved to this town, to put it mildly. The representative Aspaker shall have the honour to simply promote this interpellation. We have had so many interviews about the resource situation of the Oslo Police during this period, and we are not being listened to. The Oslo citizens say the same thing. The police say the same thing. The Minister of Justice says the opposite. There we are. We've been doing that for three years now, and we're going to do it for sure the next year as well. But it is quite clear that the justice sector in Oslo has a very difficult everyday life. This is partly due to a lack of resources, but it's too easy to believe that you can solve the challenges Oslo faces, only with more resources. We also need structural changes, and we need legal changes. We need changes in a number of areas if law and order are to become everyday in Oslo City. We need significantly higher penalties for criminal acts. There's simply more sin on the victim than on the one who runs, rapes or stabs people with a knife -- no matter how traumatic you have. Furthermore, we need a much more stringent asylum and immigration policy, where criminal foreigners are expelled immediately, and the focus must be on the protection of Norwegian society. That's why we're put in this room: to protect Norwegian society and our citizens. It's strange that there are always the worst criminals who get access to the best and most profiled defense lawyers. Why is that? Why is it that Toska or other of the most profiled criminals, always get the best defense lawyers? I've always wondered about that. The government says that it is impossible to send criminal foreigners back to their country of origin, or their country of origin, for it is said that they are not allowed to enter their country of origin. But now it is so that very many of the countries where these criminals come from are the same countries that receive huge aid from Norway. And it's possible to connect these two things, without having to be merciless and terrible, and without having a very negative way of looking at it. It is possible to connect it, and then you should also have a different reaction to these countries - obviously. We need to copy laws from other countries, where foreign prostitutes are expelled already at the border, and where the focus is not one-sided, a poorification of the prostitutes. Yes, there are backers, and yes, they should be taken, but there are many foreign prostitutes who are in Norway just to make money, because it's very attractive, and they make an incredible amount of money. One that, for example, come from Nigeria via Rome and to Oslo, as they often do, serving enormously by prostitution here, compared to what you can serve in Nigeria. There are actually many who are willing to downgrade and sell their bodies for very much money. We may think that's terrible, but that's the case. This is not what the Minister of Justice suggests, that it is Norway's duty to provide these prostitutes with jobs, education and housing, as he said in this pulpit. These are foreign prostitutes who come here on a tourist visa and are here for three months. We're not going to give them any job or education or bobble. It's not our job. Our job is to protect Norwegian society, because this is criminal activity. We can expel them from the border -- they have nothing to do here -- just like they do in Finland. It is also possible to do so in Norway, if you are willing. But then you have to turn on the tiles and not always make the prostitutes poor or make those who commit criminal acts poor. We're not going to do that, we're actually going to focus on those who live in Norway. That's our job. I have given very many challenges to the Minister of Justice from this pulpit over the course of these two and a half years. In the evening post today it is all over the front page that there is a new tag tree in Oslo - enormous increase in tagging. This is, therefore, a legal business - legal tag walls - that has led to a lot of illegal tagging around. So today, the police use a lot of resources to remove tagging instead of using resources to fight other crime - as they could have done. I have asked the Minister of Justice to establish mobile police posts, à la London, where they have mobile police posts on wheels. You could give the police resources to be fully staffed-- that's. specific incentive schemes need to be established, day-to-day police patrols need to be introduced in the centre, incentives to make it more attractive for experienced police officers to choose operational services instead of sitting in the offices, to give police officers responsibility for fixed geographical areas, to remove the quantum discount in the event of a crime, to introduce a rapid court and immediate settlement. I'm not getting any more, I'd like to keep going.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e581	The Council of State replied to the representative of Aspaker that it is important to place responsibility where it belongs, and that the strongest criminal policy instruments should be reserved for where they operate. And then it's about finding measures that help them. It is entirely in agreement with the Right, because tightening up the police regulations could act as a kind of code of conduct, so for example. Prostitution is done in such a way -- to the extent that you can call it an all right way -- that at least you don't harass those who move in the urban space. That was one of the reasons why we suggested it, when we saw the crime debate coming, because it's a much lighter response to the prostitutes than it's to criminalize the customer. But the effect on the prostitutes is getting worse. It won't be a kind of renovation, as some from the Right were accused of driving when we proposed this last year, but it's actually going to be a termination of the prostitutes. The effect now is that responsibility for own security is placed where it should not belong, namely in the case of the individual prostitute, who is now almost alone in relation to having to protect himself, in relation to more aggressive customers, less transparent markets - with a greater risk of own security. In front of some country meetings last year, I got a number of phones from prostitutes as a tag and asked: please, don't do this. They did because they saw what happened in Sweden. They saw that prostituted girls who used more dope were more addicted to hallucinations and would have a higher number of trips to meet violent pimps' demands for earnings. And it was harder for them to make contact. In addition, there were naturally fewer customers who contacted the police to tip about things they found unworthy, simply because they wanted to report themselves. So now you want to achieve what was the intention behind our proposal, that there is a safer and more pleasant urban space by not seeing prostitutes in the streets, but the effect becomes a termination rather than what was termed a bad word "renovation" last year. The word «double moral» was mentioned. I did not think it was a parliamentary expression, but since the President approved it for the representative of Heggø, I can rest assured that I think it is reasonably moral to look at the views of the government parties on this matter. Then I'm going to discuss a topic about prostitution, a topic I've addressed several times before, namely, that there are also boys and men who are prostitutes. There has been an attitude every year that we don't know anything about, it's hard to get knowledge, and that's why we can't have any social policy measures of a nominal nature either. Now you're criminalizing, you're going to have to investigate the effects, but generally and not specifically on those you've never known anything about before, because it's so hard. This means that an action is being taken in the form of criminalisation of something that is unknown, and you don't even want to know what the consequences will be for them. In a certain age group, there are probably more young boys than young girls who are prostitutes. In addition, the internal market is already large for boys and men who sell to women and men. When you allow yourself to describe a much milder proposal in relation to prostitutes as 'double moral' when the social policy effects of the criminalisation of sex purchases will actually be doubled for those involved, I think you might want to take it a little calm. I understand that it is problematic in relation to what is the motivation for some here: since prostitution is women's oppressive, we adopt a ban on it. But not even taking over the consequences for the men who sell, I actually think they're twice as oppressive as human beings. So until the Council of State addressed the need for efficiency measures in the police. Here is a proposal which I hope can be presented, but which has been voted against in the past by the government parties, namely proposals for electronic police reporting. It could release police force and capacity. In Stavanger we have seen that there was a rape, but that the case was not run with the ball in goal, to say so, because of a lack of analytical capacity. You cannot clarify the matter and take the perpetrator, because you do not have analytical capacity. But then, as we've discussed before, the private laboratory GENA can take care of the analysis in the day. These are two single examples of efficiency measures that the government parties could have adopted and that could have been in operation now. I hope you will consider voting for it when we return to Stortinget with the same proposal again.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e602	I've lived in this city for 26 years-- exactly, I think, today-- and I'm very happy in this city. I've been in this town for 26 years, I've been in Oslo City Council for the past 12 years, and I have problems getting to know myself in the description of the city that some representatives give. Many, very many, an overwhelming majority of the population of Oslo, experience this city as a safe city, without we realizing that anyone feels insecure. We're going to respect them, but the majority of this city's inhabitants feel that the city is safe. Oslo is the capital of the country. We have to think about that when we paint the situation in the city and the city's parade street is in. Oslo is the country's face, we also have to think about that when we hear how Oslo is made by some representatives. There are two places in the country that are being produced as if they are the worst places on earth. It's sometimes Oslo as a whole and many times Groruddalen. Many do it because they will appear to be happy in these two places, but the result will be the opposite. It's going to be a stigmatisation that neither the people of Oslo nor the people of Groruddalen are familiar with. I think it's important that we're clear, that we're honest, and that we can get a common understanding of reality. The government admits, as the Minister of Justice said, that there is potential for improvement in some areas of Oslo police. So the question is, when is the opposition going to admit that the Oslo Police have increased their budget -- even under the previous government -- over eight years, from $1 billion to $1.50 billion? When will they recognise and admit that there is a positive progress in the police budget? When are they going to admit that part of the reason why the Oslo Police are missing is that there was a low admission to the police study during the previous government? And if the money is the only thing that is needed to solve the problem of Oslo police or other police districts, you might ask, why did the outgoing right-wing government adjust the Oslo police budget for 2006? The point here is that we all have to be a little rusty, a little bit sober and a little bit honest and meet each other because we're happy in this city. I believe that the Oslo Police have a liberal budget - and I believe that the Oslo Police budget can be improved. Of course it can get better. But I also think it is important to make a structural change in order to get more out of the Oslo police budget. I would again appeal, in particular to Oslo representatives, to be careful to present Oslo as an insecure city. This is our city, we're going to live in this city, we're going to live in this city. We may not think that the city is insecure, but as it is made here, many out there will feel even more insecure than they feel today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e619	There is often a debate on whether to assume half-full glass or half-empty glass, at least in terms of the resource situation of the Oslo Police. But this is going to be two debates. First of all, there are questions as to whether more than today you can banish beggars and prostitutes who have aggressive behavior. It's one debate. And then there's the question of the resources of the Oslo Police, which is another debate. So let's try to think about this a little bit. With regard to the review of the application of the City Council of Oslo for changes to the City Police Code, it is right, as the Minister of Justice says, that the previous government proposed to repeal and was adopted by a large majority repealing the beggar paragraph. The paradox is that the cancellation occurred in a situation that is slightly different from today, because just when it was lifted, there was no real need for the paragraph. And then in time we have seen an influx of especially foreign beggars and prostitutes with a completely different, aggressive behavior, which actually makes the old paragraph similar to more relevant. It is on this basis that the City Council in Oslo, of course as a result of the reactions of the city's citizens, has asked to be included in the city's police regulations that they can be expelled from those who are begging for prostitution and have aggressive behaviour. We have supported that opportunity by the Christian People's Party. The Directorate of Police and the Ministry of Justice did not wish to meet the application of the City Council. We would like to see that done. So to the resource situation. I'm not really very interested in this numerical debate. One billion in 2000, 1.5 billion in 2008, it really doesn't say anything if you don't take into account the costs, tasks that have become more and more diverse for the police, a change in the image of crime and greater needs as a result of greater population and a different pressure in many areas, also because of conditions other than those that are the police, but that become the result. So if I were to present a challenge to the Minister of Justice, it was actually to get someone to identify and see what the resource situation actually is for the Oslo police today in relation to the past, where you take into account the elements I mentioned myself, and then you can take into account what the interpellant has been dealing with, other conditions that affect how much money you actually have at your disposal. Then maybe we could have a more sober debate on what the actual resource situation of the Oslo Police is. I agree with Akhtar Chaudhry that we, as Oslo representatives, also have a responsibility for how we talk about the situation in our own city. I really think it's a paradox when the liberal newspaper uses the entire front page to tell us that Oslo is four or five times more insecure than New York. It's just a blast. But it's clear that that's what makes people wonder. And perceived insecurity is as big a problem as real insecurity if it actually leads to e.g. not dare to go to the centre to go to cultural institutions, theatres, etc. I fully agree with that - that is where we have a responsibility. At the same time, we do not assume that the glass is half empty in some areas. As far as profit crime is concerned, people's confidence in the police in Oslo is too low. We can't take that easy. Nor can we take it lightly that cases where there is a known perpetrator being reported are only settled due to procedural capacity. Then we can't say we're satisfied. It's okay that we need more people trained to be cops. What's the truth is that it increased under the previous government. It's good that it increases below this. In the meantime, we have to make sure that those who are cops are also given the opportunity to continue to be that, whether they are seniors or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e640	Initially, I would like to thank the interpellant for travelling this important theme. As the inter-pellant is certainly aware, the Left has a proposal for a representative in the Committee which also deals with this issue, where we are promoting a number of proposals. I hope it's that you're allowed to mean something, make suggestions and look forward, even if you've been in government, and even if you've been sitting with the Minister of Justice. The left believes it is important to plan for the long term in order to have a proper police service. We have made proposals to increase the number of posts in the police, because we do not want an important state, but a clear, active and visible police force. The left has proposed that at least one quarter of the posts be filled in the Oslo area. It is important that the police have a crew that is proportionate to their duties. For this reason, the Bondevik II government promised to promote a police crewing plan, which together assessed the need for personnel for a longer time perspective following the evaluation of phase 2 of the police reform in 2007. The main objective was to ensure sufficient staffing in the future to meet the challenges of police action over the next five to ten years. Following the resignation of the Bondevik II Government, the Left proposed in May 2006 to adopt such a crew plan. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The overall assessment of the need for access to personnel for a longer period of time is requested by the Government following the evaluation of Phase 2 of the police reform in 2007.’» The proposal from the Left was unanimously supported. In the view of the Left, there is a need to increase the involvement of the police, in particular to strengthen the field service and work against organised - including economic - crime. Police outpatient services come into contact with the population in many different situations - disadvantaged young people, acute psychiatry, killing sites. The external service has an active role in the local environment that it is important to strengthen. The left wants to expand the police reserve to 2,000 people. We also want to expand the use of the police reserve in practical police tasks with ordinary police officers. Oslo, as the country's capital, has special challenges, be it organized crime or money laundering. Therefore, the Left also promoted a proposal for measures to combat fraud and fraud and organised crime in the taxi industry. The thrush industry is struggling with a significant trust problem following tax fraud detection and after taxi drivers have been involved in arms trafficking for the criminal gangs in Oslo. This goes beyond the clear majority of taxi drivers, who operate honestly, and the customers, who can experience insecurity and unpleasant situations. It is also unfortunate from the general legal point of view that fraud and crime in an industry are not seriously affected. Finally, as mentioned at the outset, the Left has a proposal for a representative relating to increased staffing in the police at the disposal of the Committee, a proposal I hope we will receive broad support for when it comes to consideration in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e660	I guess this debate was rather hesitant, as I had feared, because a lot of things are mixed up. First of all, I think we're going to establish that guessing on the open street is not allowed, promissory or not. Sustained people on the open street have never been decriminalized, so that ball we can put to death-- it has nothing to do in this debate. If there's a guess on the open street, whether it's from a beggar or a prostitute, the police will intervene if they see it, so I think it's an irrelevant debate in relation to promiscuity or not. Then, like the representative, I'm not particularly concerned with the numerical debate that the special representative, Aspaker, has a tendency to go up. I think it's a little uninteresting in what we're going to get back from the police. What's interesting about this debate, however, is the types of resources the police have, and what's missing today is and becomes a police-trained staff - it's not possible to explain away. And then we don't have to have a long debate about who's to blame for what, but anyway, we've been blowing up the capacity of the Police College for at least two years now. What's a little amazing in the debate is that the right several times in the last six months have tried to pretend that they don't even have part of the responsibility. I think that's a little weird. What was so fine with the Right before was that they had an overall policy based on a value-conservative thinking, and they were credible and stand for their opinions. Today it is no longer like this. I believe that today the Right appears to be populist and winged, and I shall justify that with three examples: So, first of all, the Right decided at their national meeting last year that they were against the criminalisation of sex purchases. There might be some good reasons to think about it. I was myself one of those who lost at my own country meeting, for various reasons. But in order to meet the turmoil in the Oslo urban scene, the Right wanted to tighten up on police regulations, where they are to put the burden on the prostitutes. I think that's a little strange thinking, for several reasons, because then the possibility of police expulsion is. Yes, how far are they to be shown away? Is it down by Karl Johan? Is it beyond the borders of the municipalities of Oslo? How far should they be shown away? It's a perfectly legitimate question in relation to the girls who then obviously need to sell themselves. It is also a question of whether it is a renovation or not, as the representative André Oktay Dahl spoke a little about. What does the Right really think about that policy? Secondly, Aspaker had a chronicle in the North Light three-four weeks ago where she strongly criticized the red-greens for our only response to all challenges was ‘more money’ to the public, and we did not focus on good management, organisation and political leadership. Today, Aspaker has largely talked about more resources. What does the right here mean? Are we going to spend more money, or are we going to spend less money? And what do Right think about organisation and management in relation to the Oslo Police? Not a single proposal has been made. The last point I want to mention is the debate which has gone a little bit here in relation to the repeal of the law on the prosecuting of prosecuting goods from January 2006. In the setting, a unanimous committee in the form of a note pointed to the development, which was negative, especially with regard to the beggars. Therefore, it was also pointed out that we had to introduce an extended human trafficking paragraph in relation to organized begging. It was also said from an overall committee that issues related to begging and prostitution should generally be addressed in social policy and that criminal prosecution should follow the principle of harm-reduction. There is nothing that has changed since January 2006 in relation to this, but that there has become something more aggressive prostitute at Karl Johan, I will admit that. But they still don't have the right to attack people in the public space, and there can't be any introduction of promiscuity laws or police regulations to help us. There's the other sentinel that already exists. So it would have been interesting to hear what the Right actually means by its proposals, that it not only becomes a kind of symbolism policy and a need to answer an opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e677	I need to speak in this debate, among others. Because I guess I'm one of the female representatives that it refers to in the interpellation. It is correct, as the representative Aspaker claims, that it was the representative Sund and I who publicly commented on the matter when Rolf Terje Klungland experienced an unpleasant harassment in December. But it's not right that we want to change the police regulations. We believe that the police already have the means to do something about harassment and even theft, as was the case in this case, both of which are already affected by the penal code, as many have argued in the debate. Nor do we need to spend a lot of resources, in my opinion, on that very thing, compared to much more serious crime, as it is in Oslo and also in other parts of the country. From the representative Sund and my side the play was well so much about taking harassment and sexual harassment against men seriously. Today, this is often met with laughter, like what women experience to a much greater extent and have experienced at all times. We believe harassment of the kind to which the representative Klungland was exposed is unacceptable, and it is equally unacceptable whether it affects men or whether it affects women. It also applies wherever it happens, and it also applies if those who harass are prostitutes. Some have thought that we have been looking to take the foreign women who, because of poverty and miserable living conditions in their countries of origin, have been unsuccessful in prostitution here in Europe. That's not right. These women need help to get out of the miserable situation they are in, and the most effective thing would be that Norwegian men showed responsibility and stopped buying sex. In this way, at least I believe that the ban on the purchase of sexual services will contribute in the right direction. But prostitution as a social problem will not disappear even if we impose a ban. Efforts to help those women must continue to do so, but the obvious prostitution and harassment are likely to be less. It has been up to us in the debate about the picture drawn by Oslo, is real or not, and whether we help to blackify the image of Oslo. What I experienced on the day this debate started, and the next day, many people were happy that at last someone said something about what many had experienced, but you wouldn't say anything about it because you were ridiculed. VG also documented that in the days that followed, quite early in the evening and beyond, harassment was going on all the time down Karl Johan. Finally, I think we all understand that the aggression of some of these women is an expression of desperation, and there must be no doubt that the greatest victims in this matter are the prostitutes. Nevertheless, I believe that harassment must be tackled. So to the resource situation in the police, which has also been a topic. As a member of the Financial Committee, I do not think it is exactly a surprise that in this sector too people lack more than money, possibly.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e696	This debate probably evolved as I feared it would develop, that the government parties crept the longest into the trenches, pulled up a resource debate, which was not my main concern at all, but it was the track in which one wanted to run the debate. Then you do not solve the problem of Oslo, and I feel that both the representatives of the government parties and the Minister of Justice are committing a sin in relation to it. The fact that there is a large majority in Oslo City Council - who should be the foremost people to know their own city, to be able to make judgements and have opinions about how to want it in their own municipality - that come with recordings and views, is that they give virtually zero weight. I feel quite entitled to mean a lot about Oslo. I actually spend much of my week here. This is my second hometown after Harstad. I'm more happy in Harstad than I am in Oslo, but I spend so much time here that I reserve the right to feel something about how Oslo experiences, and how Oslo has evolved. It's not for the better, but for the worse, just in the last few years. So I want to say, because the government parties are constantly coming back to the admission to the Police College today, that if it was the case that these parties with the current Minister of Justice in charge, as at the time they were in the Justice Committee themselves, were so clear-sighted at the time that they predicted that they were going to need all those policemen, why didn't it be suggested to double the admission to the Police College? If you go back to the minutes from the major debates in the previous period, I can't see that there are any such proposals that you should take up bigger coal in the Police College than what was done at the time. It was agreed that that was the need you had at that time. So it's well here as in many other areas so that the need has increased more than what you've previously been able to predict. Now you're in a little bit of a cat's leg and you're in a pinch, and then the question is how to get out of it in the best possible way. Then I also want to say that when it comes to black paint, I think it's not possible to call it black paint when there's statistics it's referred to, or statements from the police chief on what kinds of things they're doing to deal with, and what kinds of things they're not doing to deal with. Then I think it's a good idea to call it black paint. It should also be of great concern that virtually none of the major types of cases such as social security, tax fraud, etc. pursued. So I want to say when it comes to caring for the prostitutes, that what I said in my first post was that it's important to have two thoughts in my head at the same time, but it's also important to have police regulations and laws and rules in the capital that make this a city to be safe in, whether it's day or night.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e711	I would like to stress the need for us, in order to create security in Oslo, to give a proper picture of the situation. Now the representative, Aspaker, objected to her driving black paint, in the same breath as she says that in terms of social security, fraud and tax matters, virtually none of them are being solved. Shall we leave that picture behind after this debate? That's not right. There are considerable challenges to that, but the Oslo police district is doing a great job of resolving many of those issues. You are, among other things, in the process of completing a major taxijack case, which is of great importance. We must be allowed to say from when that kind of description is given from this pulpit - because it is wrong, and it creates insecurity out there - without then being accused of not taking the crime that is there seriously. But we have a responsibility to tell you about the job that Oslo police districts do. Then I do not necessarily agree with the representative of Aspaker that this became a resource debate. I believe that several of the speakers, including those who have been signed, have just focused on the question of whether we should use social policy instruments or criminal policy instruments. I also take a great distance from that, for example. The representative Tybring-Gjedde spoke on this pulpit, who for me is dealing with a very important issue of value: are we going to treat the women who are really struggling the most, many of them with children in their home country, like this, and just say that our responsibility is to get them out? I don't represent a government that has that position. I understand that Tybring-Gjedde represents a party that probably has that position, so there we disagree. I feel that Right and other decent bourgeois parties do not join the galley. When it comes to criminalising sex purchases, it's a criminal policy tool that targets the buyer, not the trafficker. While we've been discussing police regulations, criminal policy instruments, police instruments, which target those we perceive, are going to meet with social policy instruments. There's a difference here. As regards the question of resources, I have to say that I see the representative Elisabeth Aspaker in his article «Snipp, snap, snout...» in Nordlyst on 10 March, which Breen was also inside, saying this very well, under the heading «More money»: ‘The main melody of the red-greens has been that any problem can be solved with more money.’ She also writes: ‘If ‘more money’ meant better services, no country would have a better health care system or a better school than Norway’. She ends by saying, ‘Three years of red-green government show that ‘more money’ is not sufficient as a response. It is far more important that the money is spent in a wise and understanding manner.’ Those are wise words - yes, that's actually pure words for the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e737	The debate on substance is closed. So 9 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e753	In the police role report, it's called, and I quote: ‘The government wants a police force that plays its role in a clear and reliable manner so that the need for legal security, security and general well-being of society and its population is addressed through prevention, enforcement and assistance activities.’ With this declaration, the Bondevik II government set the level of ambition: the police must be clear and reliable, while stressing the need to ensure the overall need for legal security, security and well-being of both individuals and society. It requires a visible and accessible police force when the need for police assistance is there. Today’s development in the police and lenght movement means that the Right now raises questions as to whether the visions of the police role message have gone into the forgotten book and are no longer governing today’s government. An old saying says that when the crib is empty, the horses are bitten, and there is probably more coverage for what is the driving force behind the reorganisations that are taking place in the police and lumbar seats. The police role committee concentrated its first interim investigation on the issue of ‘What kind of police do we want?’. The committee was concerned about the characteristics of the police. In the light of an analysis of society’s needs for police services, the sample listed 10 basic principles for Norwegian police, key characteristics such as police construction and activity requirements, which can also be seen as an expression of the basic values to be met by the police. The committee worked on the idea that these values also say something about how the police are and look, and how the police act. In addition, the principles underpin the choice of means and methods by the police. The Political Affairs Committee stressed that there was an internal link between the ten basic principles and that this provided a police force with the following characteristics: small units small degree of work-sharing multiplicity of tasks a minimum of power-use cooperation with public integration in the community representativeness prevention as the main objective of professional morality as the basis for control With this, the near-police model was created, and the principal force of the Norwegian police, close contact with the population of the community, was to be the main clue to the establishment. Various signs in time suggest that the development of the police and officers' seat is on a collision course with several of the ten basic principles of the police role report. The setting-up of officers' offices and police posts leads to a less visible and less accessible police force and may not be in line with the spirit of the police role report, to which a unanimous outburst has given its approval. In addition, there is a breach of the prerequisites for the reorganisation of civil justice on the ground plane, where the Stortinge provided a clear link and proximity to the public. I belong to those who are very questioning about the argument about the closure of the janitor's offices - that this should provide better police services to the public. It probably depends on the eyes that look at it. I have a strong feeling that very tight police budgets are the real driving force behind the large-scale centralisation plans we see, among other things. in the Follo region, and which is contrary to what the Stortinge provided for in the handling of the Police Report. Honesty lasts the longest, and then I think the Council of State should call a spade if the actual cause of the reduction in the offices of officers is too little money. At the same time, I would like to challenge the Council of State to respond to his opinion that it is in line with the decision of the Stortinge when the Norwegian police are in many places in the process of withdrawing from the nearby police station. It is also difficult to interpret the consequences of the new working time regulations in a way other than as a new proof that the police incident is on a collision course with the near-police model. Security cooperation across very large areas of District Norway will automatically lead to a more remote police force and longer call-out time, while at the same time important local knowledge is lost. In the next round, this may affect the quality of service provision. When police reform in 2000 saw the light of the day, it would give us a more effective and more public-oriented and visible police force. In the first evaluation of the police reform, published in 2005, we are told that a majority of both police and public opinion are dissatisfied with the results. Here it is stated that the aims of the reform, that the police should become more visible in people's everyday lives, and that there should be more focus on everyday crime, far from being achieved. Local politicians and rapporteurs have also committed themselves and complain that there are no more policemen in the streets today than before the reform. Expectations are far from being met, and in some places it would be better to say that it is worse than before the reform came. An audience survey from 2006 is also discouraging reading. In fact, the police are perceived by many as less accessible and more invisible after the reform. People complain that their cases are settled, and simply do not understand that the police can resolve matters with a known perpetrator. This is why the Right believes there is a need for a more detailed analysis of where today’s developments are heading, and of how the police should be able to get back in the right direction. It would have been interesting to hear the Council of State's assessment of how he perceives the further follow-up to the police reform. When, for example, The size expect a new round of evaluation? It would give Stortinget renewed opportunity to get the police on the desired course. There is little doubt that new summer 2007 working time regulations have exhausted a lot of police time. Of course, the Norwegian police are required to comply with the Working Environment Act, but it is critical that the Government did not carry out the necessary impact assessments before the introduction of new working time regulations, nor have any measures taken to mitigate any of the negative ringing effects resulting from the 11-hour rule. I am fully aware that there are not fully trained police officers ready to strengthen the police, but we have in the past been involved in other measures that could have had immediate effect - more civilians and getting the seniors to continue. We know that the seniors represent a very valuable reserve of labour. The annual take-off is approx. 250-300 officials and women. We'll talk about 20 pst. to continue, it actually corresponds to 50-60 annual works, so it is a significant contribution. And if we can persuade more than 20 pst, the gain would be equal to greater. The government parties promised in the 2005 election campaign that 2008 would be the year of the police. It was not, because the operating budgets are unfortunately quite strenuous in many places. It was not useful then that we suggested more money, because we did not agree to that. So on behalf of the population and the police, I now trust the Minister of Justice at the budget conference he has behind him to do a real job, and that 2009 will be the real year of the police - which will give room to take in civilians, who will give room to stop the centralization and the closure of the cannon offices that we see around, and which actually make very many people feel that the close contact they had with the police is disappearing, and that the nearest police in many places are many hours away. It is not very reassuring and reliable when you know how important the police are and see the important role the police have to play in accident situations and when there is a need for police assistance. My appeal to the Council of State is: Trust in the police is built through closeness, and then it's very important that we now get the lead in the police on that it's proximity we're supposed to take care of, and that it's not, as today, that more and more things indicate, that there's going to be a more distant police force with less public contact, which is the experience that people out there are left with.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e826	After all, it is this government's aim to ensure that we get a police officer with a crew and an organisation locally who takes care of the audience's need for service and preparedness, in line with the objectives that the representative Aspaker has reached, which are well described in the police role message, and the assumptions that the Stortinget has made. In order to meet the public’s desire for a police service and to strengthen the police’s security-creating work, the government has increased the police budget by about half. $30 billion in the period 2006-2008. And we're in the year of the police, among others. Because one of the biggest reforms that the last government failed to implement, that is to say, providing the police with tools for the DNA campaign, is now on the steps. So I have to say that in these policy debates we have, it's quite strange to hear that you're being accused of running and shutting down LEN's offices and police posts. Then I have to ask the interpellant now to show: what police posts is the government going down, as she is against, and what offices are she thinking about? We've only followed the same pattern as the police and the previous government stated, that it's only where the municipalities wanted to rationalize and operate a better police service, and where it was more appropriate and the municipalities agreed to lay down, that they have agreed to it -- Bjugn, Ørland, Lunner and Gran. As far as I can remember, it was the last time a county office was closed, where there was no municipal support, in Moelv up in Hedmark. Then the government chose Stoltenberg II, in which I am sitting, to pay for the closure that the previous government did, to build a police post in Moelv. Then we built a police post, we didn't put down a police post. And the last time there are three police posts in this country, it was done during the Bondevik administration. It was here in Oslo - Romsås, as far as I recall, and then Hovseter and one more place. So it's a little strange in such a debate to be met with something like the previous government, with the Right in the government seat, actually did, and then it's this government that does the opposite, that builds police posts, and that says that's something we actually want more of. To do that, we need, among other things, What I've been through several times: several policemen. That's what counts in order to get a shorter response time and to be able to get more policemen to go into cases, not necessarily offices. But I underline that the government has not put down any candidatures against the will of any local authorities, which is the same line that I perceive also the Right has been understood. We're struggling with police personnel. I have to repeat it, as it is still being drawn up: in the light of the years 2002 and 2003 - under the government of Bondevik II, when only 240 students were admitted - it is the take-off coals we are currently working with. So you could say that the Storting could have corrected the government at that time. But it's actually one of the advantages of being in the government position is that you have the whole investigative system and are actually close to those who can bring the analyses, and you actually have to take responsibility for it too. That's why we now have the record record of 432 students, which is the highest since 1997 and 1998. I find it difficult to understand that getting to grips with and training more policemen as well as being a policy that is particularly contrary to the police report that points to the need for a close police force - a close police force in the sense that there are people there when people either come on a ringing bell, on the phone or want someone to move out. I find it difficult to see that there are other measures that can actually help reduce the response time in Norway, than that we actually have people on guard. I think that the right in these police debates will go a little bit calmer in the doors when it comes to both putting down police posts - as this government has not done, but as the previous government did - to put down relief agencies against the will of municipalities, as this government has not done, but as the previous government did, and to make low admissions at the police high school, which the previous government chose to do, and which we have chosen to leave as a course. That is why I also believe that the staffing plan we have announced will provide the ministry and all of us with a much better basis for future planning of the staffing needs of the police case. It is also important, in addition to training more police officers, to recruit personnel with other training, such as detainees, to free police officers from police duties and to get experienced police officers to work longer. The general age limit in the country is 70 years. The size has set a lower age limit than the general one for a number of jobs, including: police officers, aged 60 and 63, who are able to retire from a retirement pension of 57 and 60 years. Today, police officers go on average with retirement when they are 58 1/2 years old. It is therefore important, as I understand the interpellant also suggests, that senior policy measures are now being implemented, so that the police can continue to benefit from the competence of the seniors and police professionals. The government also believes that the Norwegian police should be locally anchored. That's why we have ambitions about now, among other things. linking the police to local service offices. Our attempt in Moelv is such an attempt--a successful attempt. It gives a good template for how to do it elsewhere. My ambition is that we'll be able to do it elsewhere. The role and tasks of the police and the attention to users and users' needs for police services require this from us. The place of employment is important, believes the Government. A discussion about the number of service locations, location and organisation can often become a narrower discussion. For the public, availability and response time are also important. It doesn't help anything with a closed loner's office if there's something going on suddenly and you don't get the police on the door when you really need help. Therefore, the Government believes that the working time arrangements that I understand between the interpellant, as well as between the lines, are something skeptical about, in fact, a very important contribution to improving the working conditions of policemen, to make it easier for those who think it is difficult to stand in this profession, and to maintain labour. This is how I warmly welcome the working time regulations. I think a press police officer needs that. We should also include that in the question of a close police force. We now hope, as I said, that it will be possible to further develop the police's ability to co-locate with public service offices where appropriate, in places where we, among other things, are. do not have service locations, such as: was in Moelv in Hedmark, where the police were then brought back to the local population. In the mandate of the test districts that are now looking at border regulations, often service offices and police councils - Follo and Hordaland - there are clear leads, among others. by supporting the proposed changes to the main features and objectives of the 2000 police reform, to make police more effective in preventing and combating crime, to make police more public and service-oriented, and, finally, to make the police more cost-effective. I think that is absolutely necessary. If you want to meet challenges, both in tax matters, social affairs, organised crime and cross-border crime, as we see, the closeness and effectiveness of the police in Norway will not only be measured by whether we have places of employment everywhere, but it will be measured whether you are actually able to deal with the difficult issues. The right has traditionally been concerned with the kind of organisational change in which we actually enable the police to face the new crime. Today we have had a debate on violence in close relations. We know that many of those who are subjected to violence in close relationships will not go to the offices to get help. But we must not let the police be organized, for example: by building children's houses, so that we get new places for those who never dare to go to a place of employment, because you can have a gentleman who likes to fight with beaks and clothes to keep the place of work and his employees. That's why this is a discussion that's important. In this way I warmly welcome the starting point of the interpellant, for I hope that such a debate invites us all to see that the proximity and effectiveness of the police are about places of service, yes, but it is also about so much more. I have to say that it would be a help to those who need follow-up from the police if in the political debate it brought the dimension stronger, which gives a good opportunity for this interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e850	So this is a question that, at the bottom of it, is about people's quality of life, about people's security and assurances that the police are not far away if the situation requires help. Then I think it's going to be a little paradoxical, and it's turning the situation a little bit upside down, when the Council of State is trying to talk away from the fact that it's now we have a big discussion about whether you, for example. shall lay down ten officers' offices in Follo. 20 000 signatures have now been delivered, and there were probably quite a number of rapporteurs who met with the Council of State. But he hasn't been very clumsy about now, at least, whether he's going to let the reorganisation in Follo pass or not. If we're serious about having a close police force, it can't be right to shut down ten federal offices, which means that very many, large sections of that population get a police force that's much further away from what's happening today. Then I also miss a debate and an approach to this where you also take into account that new technology should also be able to pave the way for us to think a little bit more differently about how we organize the police in Norway. I realize that organizing the police in Oslo is one thing, organizing the police in Troms is something else. When I meet the gentleman in Inner Troms in Bardu, Målselv, who tells me how four-five municipalities have to cooperate in security cooperation, how the eleven-hour rule can be ruled out, how predictability is in terms of prevention work, and how it becomes much more difficult to plan the operation of the business up there, I take it seriously. And then we have to take it with us and try to discuss and see if there are other ways to the goal than those we've necessarily seen now. The Council of State is also calling into question my argument regarding the provision of employment. I said - I think quite clearly - that it is important that we can follow the work environment law for the police as well. But I may miss that we had prepared ourselves in a slightly different way. Because now there are actually some places in the country where you stand back in relatively rigid situations because you have not been able to get more people, and have not managed to plan well enough how to solve some fundamental operating problems after that working time rule came into force. I want the Council of State then to clarify what he is really saying, is that he will now develop Police Norway and not shut down the County Council if it is that you locally disagree with it. In that case, there will be new notes from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e863	Now the representative Aspaker was injured not to explain why the Right went in to lay down three police posts in Oslo, which I think is an interesting question in the debate, since we were accused of putting down police posts, while it was actually Right when they put in government, which did. I would encourage Aspaker to answer that, and why she allows herself to accuse the current government of doing so. I'm a little attached to it, because if you're busy building police posts, something the government is doing, and something the government will continue to do, then she has to explain why it was okay to lay down, while it's not okay today -- despite the fact that the government hasn't. Then Aspaker also has to explain why it was okay to shut down the county office against the municipalities' will, when you don't do it now, and it's not okay now. It is not a secret that I have expressed through speeches both from here and elsewhere that I believe that we should make changes to the place structure outside, so we should have the municipalities with us. It's not a secret. So the process that's going on in Hordaland, and the process that goes on in Follo, I assume I'm going to do according to the municipality's intention. That's the background for me inviting the municipalities to see how their position is. This is a matter that has not yet come to the ministry, so we have not taken a decision on it at all. We can't be burdened with any result because it's not done yet. But we are on the police mission's will and ambition that there should be municipal support for changes in the structure of the place of employment. What's striking is that in many ways we're being tested from a different version of reality, as expressed by the representative of Aspaker. Then I think it's mandatory, as long as it's actually the Right who's been in charge of that policy before. Then she has to explain during this interpellation debate why it's the way the Right went in to lay down--and put down-- three police posts in Oslo, when you're on the barricades for them today. We see, and I hope, that the reform that we see possible both in Hordaland and in Follo will help get more people out, you get more people to do research, you get more people to go into difficult and complicated things. As an ambition, I also have there, as we have done in Hadeland and Gran, in Ørland and Bjugn, and as we have now achieved in Moelv in cooperation with the police post that we have established, that it should be done in accordance with what the municipalities want, that we should have a model that is settled. I think the process in Follo must be allowed to go, so that we can get to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e872	In the February issue of the Police Forum, we can read about a very successful turnaround operation carried out in the West-Finland police district. After jobs have been unoccupied for years, not least something we from the north have been aware of and made aware of many times, the rumors are about a young and dynamic working environment, and it attracts people. The police district has been given increased resources, so that they have just been able to post 6-7 new posts. Police station chief Jørn Schjelderup immediately launched an investigation at the police station when he joined in 2006. The percentage of information has gone up, from 47 pst. until 52 p.m., and the time for an order order order has dropped, from 172 to 113 days. The same Schjelderup has gone to the acquisition of new equipment, which facilitates police investigation and ensures witness tests. The chief of police in West Finland has complied with the wish of the outgoing PF leader Grete Rugland to give financial support to all employees for a job well done in 2007. This has led to a new deal in the police district, a new optimism, and the applicants are now almost in line to get a job in the West-Finland police district. This story, taken from the Police Forum, shows a quite different side of Police Norway than the representative Elisabeth Aspaker pointed out. Everything isn't perfect in Police Norway. Neither do we. We are facing challenges, especially on the crew side. As a result, we now have a greater review of the needs on the crew side. But precisely because we've addressed the challenges we're facing, we've taken a number of steps to meet this. There are up to several before me today who have talked about how we have increased the admission to the political school. We've increased the police budget by $0.5 billion. We look at the possibilities of introducing differentiated response times. We look at the consequences of working time regulations. We're looking at the age limit. We're looking at senior policy. And I, who was the case rapporteur for the police role report, see that the government is doing what it can to follow up the visions and the obligations of the Stortinget have imposed on the Government in connection with the message. As the example of West Finnmark shows: there is a lot going on in police-Norway initiated by the police themselves, but also because there has actually been an increase in resources from this government. It is possible to do a lot locally through awareness of management and the working environment, about opportunities for professional development through increased resources - which also provide room for small preferences and more jobs. I have to go back to something that was also affected in the previous interpellation debate. We are in the process of getting a pretty interesting situation in Norwegian policy. We are all familiar with and witness that the opposition parties do not agree with themselves on the content of the policy and the way forward. I noticed Aspaker's statement that she felt that she had a good knowledge of Oslo, and felt justified when it came to this city. Then, if I were the representative of Aspaker, I would have been quite offended by the councillor Erling Lae's statement today that he has a bad dialogue with big business politicians. At least he has not contacted me as the head of the Justice Committee. So then it has to be its own party traps Lae's talking about. And he has shown that he is quite disagreeable with his own party traps on the Storting when, for example. the lien and unanimous decision to abolish it. But it only becomes parochial when individual representatives in the opposition parties do not agree with themselves. I noticed that Aspaker used the expression 'when the crib is empty, bit the horses'. But in the chronicle of the eminent newspaper Nordlys, the representative says something quite different: that we always have to solve problems with money, that it is not inconsequential, but that we have to have political courage to organize and direct public activity - a strong contradiction to what she has said in this debate. I think this is pretty interesting. Soria Moria was adventured as the red-green government and the big crowd now realize. Meanwhile, the opposition just keeps telling stories that I don't think they even believe in themselves, and at least each other is very disagreeable about.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e889	I want to give a homage to the interpellant for both of the good interpellations that one today has had a debate about, although I guess I have a feeling that we are repeating ourselves tonight. It is an important matter that has been debated many times in this Chamber, and that is the situation in the police and the resources they have. But I guess a good thing can't be repeated too often, and maybe it's going into the government parties today. We might hope that we will see results in the revised budget regarding the resources of the police. The big deal dealt with the police report two years ago. Then there was a broad consensus on how you wanted the police and the cannon seat to be further developed. We decided that someone should have a decentralised police force, with emphasis on local anchoring. Proximity is incredibly important. It's working on prevention. We have a situation today that is not so good. We have a development that we don't want. The police are in a tight position, and prevention often becomes a down-priority. And that's something that goes at the expense of the population, that doesn't get the help it needs. We all want to fight crime in this room. And we've been here tonight and we owe each other. It almost looks like we live in each of our countries, because we have a completely different sense of reality. We're arguing about who's picked up most students, and who's graduated most students. But after an information I've received from the investigation department, it turns out that I'm going to give honor to the Stoltenberg I government, because it was under the one that most students graduated. So now both the Bondevik II government and the Stoltenberg II government have it with them. The police got a promise, but they got it from the Progress Party, in 2005. And they've basically lived on it almost until we got this promise. The council is right in something, and it is that there has never been more money allocated to the police than now. But he forgets to mention that there has never been any more crime. There have never been higher wage and pension costs. In addition, more and more tasks have to be solved by the police. The police community itself says they're missing 120 million this year. kr just to stay at the 2007 level. When the Bjørnface, the committee leader, today takes up this sunshine story from West Finland, it's great to hear. That's how we wish we had it in the rest of the country as well. And then I'll take an example from Rogaland Police District. According to the directorate, Rogaland Police District should have 7.3 pst. of the entire big pot that Stortinget grants, but they only get 6.8 pst. That is, they're missing $25 million. kr. It would have been about 50 new police posts. Then it's not like there's just sunshine stories in one place. There is currently no link between the costs you have to fight crime and the resources you actually allocate. Let's look at our neighboring country. In Sweden, there is a real commitment and a build-up of the police that we in Norway can only dream of. Norway has a long way left to get on the level with our Nordic neighbours, and that's something we can't be familiar with. It is only the Progress Party that has proposed in recent years - and suggested - that we should have a level of police that is in relation to our Nordic neighbouring country. And then we can stand here and argue about who gives the most money, and that the Progress Party has so much more money than anyone else. But at least we win anyway, because the police are something we prioritise in our budgets. But as we stand here and argue about who it is that grants the least or the most money, we can wake up tomorrow to new evidence and new events, which show the real situation, where the police have to give priority to issues, which once again undermine people's security because there is too little resources. The progress party knows that much can be done, and not all money is needed. But we have to look at tasks that the police have today, which can be done by others. When I was visiting the janitor at Jären, he said that he spent so much resources driving prisoners from the Åna circuit prison to the dentist. Is he supposed to use his resources for that? Is it not possible to see if there are others who can carry out that transport? Only in Oslo, 13 763 day shifts have gone from 2001 to 2007. The Progress Party has proposed its own investment budget. We have proposed an investigation of response time. Therefore, no matter what the Council of State now says about this year being the year of the police, it's not that reality. But let's hope that 2009 will be a year for the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e926	2008 is the year of the police, because never have people requested the police more than they do now, because of a lack of budgets in relation to the tasks they have. I would like to remind you of the vision that underpinned senior policy in the state budget when the government presented it. It states that active senior policy is a short-term measure. Otherwise it is not suggested anything. To bet that older, experienced police officers and women are more at work and have great confidence and local expertise is therefore a short-term measure. I believe that this is a long-term measure, and that a strategy should be put in place to keep perhaps 50-60 annual works per year. years if you keep 20 pst. by the force, as represented by Aspaker. Given that you're also going to look at how money is spent, and given the issue of people and working life, it's pretty interesting that in a few hours of the night, you can use maybe $100 billion, which all taxpayers are going to finance to help someone end up earlier by defining themselves as struggling, and using future generations' pension money. I think that might say something about how active this government is to provide effective and new labour in the situation that it is now in. As for the question of humility and how nice the different parties have been to plan for the future, I'm guessing that both the one and the other party here can subtract a little too familiar. That ability, I think, may be - with respect to reporting - something that Pravda-like information department in the department could now also absorb. Because with DKK 132 billion less to distribution than the world's luckiest and richest government has today, some offices have been closed down. Then the current state council thought it was wrong. He clearly still believes that, since he challenges the Right to explain why it was done in police posts in Oslo. And what we're asking is whether we can learn from past mistakes. Then the question regarding Follo is: why would he do the same, possibly, error again in relation to the officers' offices? To the east side - now we're inside Follo - the police chief says that it's going to be political decisions before the summer. What kind of political decision is this policeman talking about? Is that correct? And - not least - if there are political decisions before the summer, when does the Council of State actually intend to conduct these talks, these engaging dialogues, with these municipalities, so that the municipalities are on track before the Government decides to put it down, since it is clearly a principle for this government to build on the basis of which the municipalities are founded? A month ago, Follo was discussed in the police district. It was perceived as inappropriate that this matter was raised in this Chamber, and so now the police chief believes that political decisions should be taken before the summer. At that time, the Council of State has quite a short time to initiate that dialogue, in order to ensure, for example, that: in the court, in the ski, in Ås, in the west, and on the Nesodden, agree with him, that he may uphold this principle. When we're in dialogue, the opposition parties were in conflict with themselves, and the committee leader was up with some layoffs about this. Then a real expert speaks to the point, even though there were no parts of SV's storage group that this time drove with freezer in the lawn outside. But I also think it is a little special to bring forward the city councillor's frustration in relation to the Storting. I understand that the mayor feels a little discouraged with a view to having dialogue with parts of the judicial committee, not least in the light of what we discussed during the previous interview, namely how to deal with the position of the Municipality of Oslo when dealing with the police regulations. It wasn't exactly a smooth, humble and dialogue-based management in the department that I think the Municipality of Oslo felt that they got a very big hearing from, when they pointed out what was a real problem for the Municipality of Oslo. In the end, I want to challenge the Council of State on some specific issues, in addition to the general one. Political decisions before summer -- what does that mean? And, above all, what does the Council of State mean by a senior policy? That you have to bet on what the Council of State said instead? Is it a short-term measure or is it a long-term measure? What, then, are the long-term strategies of this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e950	I really just want to include a couple of relationships in this interview debate. The first is the new working time regulations. At least it seems to me that, especially in relatively low-staffed police districts, it has become a very big challenge to be able to cover the districts in a good way at all, not least when faced with labour-intensive issues. I am aware that the Department has commissioned the Directorate to look at the impact of these changes in working time regulations. This is something we are meeting because I think the conclusion is going to be quite clear: to compensate for these changes in working time, there is a need for a significant increase in resources. I think that report is going to show. Although it's a bit retrospective, because we've had a round earlier on this, I have to take a few words about the police posts. Since the Council of State forgot the third, I can tell you that it's Furoset in Oslo. Yes, it's true that these were closed. It wasn't the government that brought them down, it was the police chief in Oslo. You could say that the government might have prevented it if it wanted to. But the situation was that even the police chief convinced the city councilmen, the very local politicians, that a better police coverage would be provided with a mobile unit that could be present and help the population all day, if the police posts were put down and instead strengthened the local police posts. You believed that. But the reality is that the fine words were not followed up in action, and I think that everyone who was in this process locally, who of course does not close police posts for fun, gave their acceptance because they actually believed that the police coverage they got instead would provide a better and not a worse police coverage. It brings me to the representative that Dahl raised, namely the question of Follo. One thing is what you now present as the desired result of a conversion, another thing is what can actually be the result. The process of closure of police posts in Oslo is certainly not an example of follow-up. I expect the Council of State to take it along - even with the nice words that the police officer in Follo serves both to local politicians and to others who have engaged in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e961	I want to thank the interpellant for bringing up an important topic. A well-established local police force is important to combat violence and profit crime and to be able to work prevention. Ensuring people a safe everyday life will always be the basis for police work, regardless of social change. What has changed is the way the police are going to cope with the challenges that today's and future societies will bring to ensure people a safe everyday life. When I grew up, we were told to a large extent that if we weren't nice boys, the police would come and get us. It probably had some preventative effect, but are we going to follow law and order because of fear or because of respect? On some police cars here in Oslo it says: We are here for a safer everyday life. The signal effect of fronting the police as a protector and not as a detainee is of great importance to the trust of the police. Another element that creates trust is the local anchoring of the Norwegian police. The left has repeatedly, at the latest in the context of the current year’s budget, underlined the need for increased police involvement, in particular to strengthen the outreach and work against organised, including financial, crime. The external service has an active role in the local environment that it is important to strengthen. A more active outpatient service is important to ensure an effective police force with a focus on good public services, which the interpellant has also pointed out. In order for the police to meet the challenges ahead, administrative cooperation between the agencies is important, as has been the case with several speakers. The Bondevik II government put great emphasis on this in its work on the police role message, and I am, like the inter-pellant, concerned about developments in this area. The fact that new cooperative structures are being restructured and established in terms of watch cooperation is, in my opinion, natural. The important thing is that there aren't going to be so long callout distances, with the use of time, that people feel insecure because of it. Unfortunately, there are some of these examples. Finally, I would like to remind you that the Left has a proposal for a representative on increased police posts to be discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs. If we support that proposal, it will increase the local anchoring of the police, which in turn will result in increased proximity and increased security.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e975	First of all, I would like to praise the interpellant for addressing the issue. I think this is definitely one of the most demanding political debates we're going to have on the police in the future - how we're going to achieve the objectives of the police role report. It is not only up to the Council of State to answer that question. Another question might be what the parties that adopted the objectives of the police role announcement think about how we are going to achieve the goals. The Norwegian police have undergone major changes. The police reform was to free a relatively large number of police officers. It did so far. The problem was that we got a fifth holiday week and new working time regulations with the reform that kind of ate up what was the benefit of the reform initially. In addition, we have had a criminal development that is much more demanding. It's cross-border crime, for example. a new crime on data. We've got a lot more focus on violence in close relationships and rape, which will create new challenges, and we have a big DNA reform. All of this in total makes us have to think differently. We cannot rely on a police force created for a time and a system that no longer exists. It also means that we have to be willing to take some grip that may hurt, and also move something away from what is the ideal everyday life we see for ourselves. Then I think it's important to remind ourselves that the situation that has been in relation to Lensmann's Norway has not been quite ideal either. I know a lot of laymen around who have a drug problem in their communities without having a single case, not a single case. Why is that so? That's a good question. It is also the case that very many county offices around will have major recruitment problems if there are to be one or two local officials. It's a fact that we don't get past. Then it doesn't help in a way that Stortinget says that all Länsmannskontoret will pass without us taking a prejudice-free debate on how to achieve the goals. Neither is it that everything with ATB is bad. I believe that part of the ATB is very good, not only for the individual official who gets a better working environment, but also because they can now work in a much more active way prevention in the districts, where it was only the back-up service before. In the north-east valley, where I come from, it wasn't like the bilgemen flew around after noon. 16 or on weekends and did preventive work, because it went beyond their spare time. They were busy having the Länsmannskontoret open from 9 p.m. 8 to 16, and that was the primary problem. That thought still hangs a little bit. Fortunately, local politicians in the north-east valley are now making it possible for us to look at the structure in order to get one more active patrol car. It's an exciting debate, and I don't think any parties deserve to be locked up. I wonder about the right rhetoric in relation to e.g. The Follo project in the papers, which points out that it is a clear breach to lay down a ten-member office, which is to be done in so far as it is not decided. First of all, it's a trial project initiated by a majority in Stortinget, actually by a unanimous magnification. We're going to have a trial project to look at alternative solutions. That's the one. The second is that if you go out and dismiss something that is initially not clarified, you should at least be manly enough to point to what is the alternative, to come up with something. Otherwise everything will be like today, and then we won't get away. Then it's no use having a trial project. I think the representative Aspaker has an exciting approach to the debate. Unfortunately, there may not have been such a big debate on the possibilities. I think it's going to come too far from today by and the next three-four-six-seven years when we discuss the police, because the challenges are huge. How are we going to run an exchange of expertise in the Norwegian police? That's a really big question. It sounds very banal and simple, but it's a very big question. How are we going to make it if everything is going to last like today? I hope that at the next crossroads we can be a little more prejudiced in relation to how we will solve the problems, and that we take on board that everything is not good as it is today either.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e998	I have to admit that I think the debate got along, and it got into a more constructive track. My intention today was to look ahead and remind ourselves that it is now well one year since we dealt with the police report in the Storting, and that there are great expectations about how the visions contained in that announcement should be fulfilled. It is, of course, the Government and the Storting that must make the most of this, even though the police force outside, which is what meets the audience 'face to face' in everyday life, that is what may be the most important thing to carry out the reform and visions. But we have to fix it, we have to rust it to do that job. Now the issue with the police posts in Oslo is solved, if we can use such a term here. But my point is that yes, it's possible we've done some stupid things in the past. This should not cause us to repeat errors that have been made. But we should rather remind ourselves of the police report that we dealt with a year and a half ago, which has set a new agenda for how to think the police forward. I agree with the Council of State that we must allow ourselves to think both in the direction of co-location with the service centre and whether there are other places in the community where people travel and where the police can be, where you get to natural meeting points and where you might meet more people than where the county offices are located today. My point is that it is important that the lieutenant or the police are out where people live, and do not retreat too far. I also have to remind you that the reform of civil justice and the connection to the police was justified by the fact that the police were so many places, and it was important to get close to people, and that the local knowledge and trust of the lieutenant or the police were a fundamental premise for that reform to be successful. There has been a lot of Nordlys quotes during the debate. I see that the representative Bjørnflaten is not present in the room - and since the article I wrote in the North Lights has been a repetition here today, I have to be allowed to say that there is something to do with having two thoughts in my head at the same time. It is clear that within the government of Norway and in public agencies it is certainly possible to organize itself more wisely in many contexts, and it is not certain that the formula we organize after today is the formula of the future. As far as the police are concerned, I am actually of the opinion that there we are also served with a decentralised police force, and perhaps an even more decentralised police force than we have today, and that has a price. In some areas, I think we too will be able to experience in the future that we need to spend more money, because the organization that we then want has a higher price tag than a more streamlined organization, where you don't experience getting the proximity of the audience that we want.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e1013	This was a very good end to the debate, and I appreciate it very much, to be honest, because it's a very important interpellation. I will promise the interpellant that the Government will not make the Right mistake. We're not going to aim to lay down any police posts, rather on the contrary. We're going to try to develop it as a concept. I also believe that the debate about Follo is a bit significant, by the fact that party politicians of all shades are throwing themselves into it before the process is completed, which in many ways helps it to get a little locked up in order to see if there are any potential for improvement. And that's also going to be right there, like everywhere else. I hope we can manage that. I will reply to the representative, Dahl. We are concerned that we will have dialogue with the municipalities in Follo, and we will not allow ourselves to be tied to deadlines and time. But of course we want to make improvements as quickly as possible. Then I would say that the representative of Kongshaug on administrative cooperation is incredibly important in terms of prevention. All the parties at Stortinget have been that we now incorporate police councils in most municipalities. It has become a very good thing. Many municipalities have now established police councils, where police and politicians sit together to look at prevention work - clear political leadership, which has proved to be an effective prevention arena. It may be more effective to use police resources on it than to travel around schools with bear and cute cars. The second thing that happens in the wake of the police councils, and that the police actually say clearly about what works prevention, for example. In drug policy, it has had an impact in many municipalities, in the sense that drug policy is now seen as an instrument for reducing crime, including the use of drugs. by pre-closing. It actually helps to reduce police time use at night. It is resource-saving, and it also helps to reduce the crime of violence. Looking at new forms of organisation, police posts, public service offices and the issue of police council development is central to what we want to do in Follo. I hope that this debate helps us actually get something positive out of these trial projects, of which I perceive that many of the parties here are followers. This is where we have to debate, while having a high focus on the police needing resources and crews to manne both police posts, police councils and the arenas where we want to meet people who are struggling with criminal acts.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e1026	The debate on substance is closed. 10 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e1037	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e1045	During the debate, Ms Søreide presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision requests the Government to resume publication of the results of the national tests for each school.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee will be rejected. The Committee had recommended that: Document No 8:33 [[2007-2008]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e1070	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Odd Einar Dørum on behalf of the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Proposals No. 2 and 3, by Odd Einar Dørum on behalf of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left The proposal No will first be voted on. 2 and 3 from the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party and the Left. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the introduction of a teacher’s vow for teachers in primary and secondary schools in the form of systematic continuing education, in addition to the skills enhancement measures of the knowledge promise.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to make the necessary proposals to ensure that each teacher is given the right to an obligatory and individual follow-up training plan.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e1101	It will then be replaced by an alternative between the recommendation of the Committee and proposal No. 1, from the Advance Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote the necessary changes to the regulations of the Training Act, so that the requirements of competence are linked to the teaching of the individual subject and not only to employment.’ The Committee had recommended that: Document No 8:47 [[2007-2008]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e1126	During the debate, Hanne Dyveke Sütter has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests that the voluntary protection proposal be used by the Government for the completion of the protection of the Trillemarka-Rollag mountain and submit a case to the Stortinget before final decision is taken.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee will be rejected. The Committee had recommended that: Document No 8:44 [[2007-2008]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e1151	During the debate, Ib Thomsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to come back with proposals for a comprehensive Norwegian water and sewerage law.’ The left has indicated that they wish to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e1174	The President assumes that the Progress Party, the Right and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e1192	The President assumes that the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party now want to subsidize the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e1201	In Case No. 5 introduces no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e1300	During the debate, Mr Starheim has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to launch a major modernisation of its construction and property activities in accordance with the proposal in Document No. 8:18 [[2007-2008]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘In the context of the 2008 Revised National Budget, the Government asks the Government to present concrete proposals for reforms in the country’s construction and property activities.’ Alternatively, these proposals and recommendations from the Committee will be rejected. The Committee had recommended that: Document No 8:18 [[2007-2008]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e1341	In Case No: 9 and 10 contain no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03-2.ana.ud586e1352	There is no record available. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting ends? - The meeting's over.
