ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20-lower.ana.ud1363e46	The reason why I ask for the word is not, in fact, that it is unseemly in the committee about what we have written when it comes to this law, but that is the comment that the Right Party and the Progress Party have come up with in connection with the ownership association. There are some statements there that can't just stand completely without us saying anything about them. I also agree that the incassomengda in Norway is a major social problem, but the comment on the Right and the Progress Party gives a distorted and incomplete picture of what the problem is. I'm not going to go into it that much more, but they're going to write.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘These members see that increasing pressure on the level of interest rates can lead to a high risk that a number of people, not least young people, will be able to get into a bad situation. However, the new debt collection reform can largely remedy this. ‘... To me, it is very unclear which element of the new debt collection reform can prevent a number of people from falling into economic ruin. The reduction in the base rate for debt collection was NOK 300. We were a few in it, and it was good it came, but it can hardly prevent a number of people from falling into economic ruin. That creditors can collect their claims was not new in the debt collection reform either. This option has always been open to creditors. Another thing is that the system of direct collection of undisputed claims must say to be an improvement in the arrangements for ownership agency. However, it is not part of the debt collection reform but of the basic civil justice reform. In addition, this is a form of legal collection, while the proposition and committee setting are also about out-of-court collection. Right and Front end of step type in full: ‘These members have noticed that this possibility’ – eigeninkasso – ‘is little known among Norwegian companies and results in a transfer of wealth from individuals and value-creating businesses to an unnecessary bureaucratic intermediary in the form of debt collection agencies with some serious margins for minimal work. These members therefore assume that work on making this possibility better known will be intensified. ‘... Now I have worked 20 years in a bank, during this very many years as a business consultant, and I am very doubtful about the claim that Norwegian companies are little aware that they can impose their own requirements. I believe that there is a clear minority of entrepreneurs who believe that under Norwegian law they have to leave the collection to a debt collection agency. When many entrepreneurs leave their claims to debt collection agencies, it's not because they have to, but because they want to. The priority is to spend time and money on the core enterprise instead of using resources to enforce bad demands. Many enterprises will therefore not experience debt collection agencies as an ‘necessary bureaucratic intermediary’, but as a part which is absolutely necessary for businesses to concentrate on precisely the core business. Finally, the Right Party and the Progress Party argued that the work on making the ownership fund option better known was intensified. I assume that one of these is aimed at the work of the Egeninkasso Association and the actors that offer an equity fund system for Norwegian companies. The Norwegian Governing Board has no work in progress to stimulate most potential creditors to collect the claims themselves rather than to use the debt collection agency. What is a task for Norwegian government powers is to facilitate both ownership association and forward-thinking association, thus contributing to increased competition between the actors. Then it gets up to the individual creditor to evaluate whether one considers it most appropriate to impose the claims themselves or to leave the claim to a debt collection agency. Finally, I mention that there are some disadvantages associated with Eigeninkasso. As opposed to debt collection agents, the owners of the debt collection agency are not subject to supervision by the Banking Authority, and the supervision is therefore not able to make effective sanctions against the enterprises in the event of a breach of the debt collection agreement, e.g.: withdrawal of collection permission. In the event of a debt collection breach, the debtors cannot bring the matter before the debt collection authority. So when both of these points are involved, the position of the debtors is weaker with the property fund than with the forward thinker's association. I only note that the Right Party and the Advance Party will weaken the user's position by indiscriminately and unreservedly appealing to the recovery form of the Eigeninkasso.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20-lower.ana.ud1363e76	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 450]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20-lower.ana.ud1363e92	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no change of line, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20-lower.ana.ud1363e99	I remember there was a disagreement between my mother and my father about how the house’s small economy was to be governed. She said that you should first make money, and then use it. Then we have the freedom to use the money we ourselves have, she said. My father said that there was one fat if we traded on chalk and made up when the salary came, or if we put it up so that the salary came first and the family used it afterwards. I mean today that my mother was right. For some reason, women have better control of the money, perhaps because they are still sitting closer to the kitchen, where the food for the family is to be made. If you don't have money, it's the mother who first discovers it. Taking up loans or trading on credit is not wrong. What's wrong is to lose control of their own economy and take up loans or credit a non-power to serve. Unfortunately, a good number of people lose control of their own economy and take up credit that they find difficult to repay. Of course, it is the individual's own responsibility not to put himself in debt that he or she cannot afford, but society should also help to ensure that people's inability to see the dangers are not exploited. It is also easy to understand that people who have poor advice are tempted to buy a pleasant holiday, a TV that they will absolutely enjoy, or a children's bike for the boy's birthday. The problem is that some financial people are not conscious of their responsibilities and create traps for people who lack the ability to pay and resolve. I have received a total of 866 000 kroner in the last three months. One of the loans is called the Loan of Freedom. You can borrow up to 300,000 kroner over 12 years without a security claim, it says in one of the letters. The sender does not know who I am, what income base I have, what family situation I am in, whether I am seriously ill, or whether I have permanent work and income. I'm being seduced into taking the Statue of Liberty! I'm glad the government takes responsibility and makes sure that people are protected from financial people who want to profit from people's sufferings. I'm glad that a unanimous committee is in favour of the creditor's being obliged to waive his obligation, i.e. that if the creditor has reason to believe that the borrower is unable to operate the loan, he shall be advised not to do so. The Committee considers that the introduction of this law may help consumers to refrain from taking credit that they may find difficult to repay. Furthermore, the Committee considers it important to take action to prevent multiple indebtedness. The Committee agrees that the non-advisory obligation shall also apply to the rental of movable property, where the lessee shall not become the owner or have the right to become the owner. The Committee agrees that in the event of non-advisability, the obligations of the borrower shall be relaxed as far as is reasonable. The law provides guidance on a concrete and discretionary relaxation assessment. Lemping can be done in different ways, e.g.: by reducing the legal claim, reducing or cancelling interest rates, prolonging the amortisation period, or by a combination of several elements. I am pleased that a unanimous committee believes that freedom is not to be entangled into a debt that one has the freedom to deal with, but not the ability to serve. Freedom is to warn unprofessional financiers that they can be held responsible for throwing loans for people who obviously should not say yes to a credit.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20-lower.ana.ud1363e122	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 451]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20-lower.ana.ud1363e130	The odelsting goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20-lower.ana.ud1363e175	The President will draw attention to the fact that a typographical error has occurred in the last part of the decision. The Roman number "Lova takes effect from the time the King established" shall be II.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20-lower.ana.ud1363e186	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20-lower.ana.ud1363e196	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20-lower.ana.ud1363e261	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20-lower.ana.ud1363e271	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20-lower.ana.ud1363e447	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
