ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08-2.ana.ud128e26	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated up to 5 minutes per party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will suggest that there is no opportunity to change lines, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08-2.ana.ud128e33	There is an overall committee that asks the Government to facilitate young people with services in the field of child and youth psychiatry to maintain their treatment even after the age of 18 in cases where a trust relationship is established and where the young people themselves want it. This offer should be made up to the age of 23. This has its background in the fact that the transition from childhood and youth psychiatry to adult psychiatry for many is perceived as problematic. There's a need for a smoother transition. Age should not be the sole reason for changing the processing agency in isolation. According to Mental Health Youth, the 18-year limit is strictly practiced in several places in the country. In the worst case, young people can fall out of the system and come back only when they are both elderly and ill. Many feel forgotten and do not understand why they should lose an offer that worked well and that could give them a better life. It is very bad for the social economy to start up with a new therapist in cases where a good treatment relationship is already established. In some cases, discharges may occur as a youth approaches 18 years of age, as it will be a short time before adult psychiatry is to be responsible for treatment. Similarly, adult psychiatry will not take responsibility until the age of 18. For some, a vacuum arises, and it will take time before help is given. This is unfortunate. Being 18 doesn't mean that too many people in today's society have grown up completely. There will be more expertise in many youth-related issues in child and youth psychiatry than in adult psychiatry. Many will thus not be met with the skills that are needed because they are too old. Youth is in a particularly vulnerable phase in the 19-20s because it is often about moving away from home and breaking up from environments that are known. For some it may be good to have stability in contact with their handler. In many places, good cooperation has been developed between health centres and children’s and young people’s psychiatry. As the committee sees it, this must benefit all young people, not just those under the age of 18. Providing patients with the possibility of maintaining treatment in paediatric and juvenile psychiatry up to the age of 23 will result in harmonisation of legislation. Within the framework of child protection, there are indications that certain rights are maintained until the age of 23. The same applies to waiting time guarantee for children and young people up to 23 years of age, which was recently treated in Odelstinget. Finally, I am very pleased that there is an overall committee behind the Left's proposal to be able to maintain their treatment in childhood and youth psychiatry after the age of 18.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08-2.ana.ud128e50	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for a very thorough review of the proposal for a representative who addresses a topic on which it turns out to be very much in agreement, namely to get good treatment for those who need it, in the transition from youth psychiatry to adult psychiatry - i.e. children and young people between 18 and 23 years of age who have mental problems and who receive treatment. As you can see, the parties to the government are in favour of the proposal of the Left-wing Representatives because we believe this is a good proposal. It's very good to get this in place for them. The transition from paediatric psychiatry to adult psychiatry is defined by a limit at 18 years. It is not difficult to agree that this is a vulnerable age for many, and that it is important to maintain continuity in treatment. A break or a change in treatment can quickly tear down what is built up, because it is precisely in this treatment that trust, stable conditions and solid frames are important. As the representative Davøy was involved, it is not particularly true that there will be no stay in the offer for those who need further treatment into adult life. A voluntary continuation of the offer is therefore good. There may also be cases where a transition will be natural and tricked, where one will end the relationship and go into adult psychiatry. But here the proposal makes this an opportunity and not a rule. Child and youth psychiatry has good competence, they address youth challenges that are not always as clear in adult psychiatry. It's, as the representative Davøy said, very much going on in a youth's life around 18 years -- schooling, growing up and meeting new demands. Changes in treatment may be particularly bad for them. The red-green government has already taken some steps to improve the situation of the group, when we adopted a legislative change that concerns the waiting time guarantee for children and young people under 23 years of age with mental illness and/or drug dependence. When it comes into force properly, it will reduce waiting time and speed up treatment for young people. That's very good. Then it must be a continuity of treatment. It is also right in this context to clarify that the proposal applies to those who are already under consideration, so that we do not also allow those who are 20 years old, or 22 years old, to enter. The proposal concerns those who are being treated and not new cases. It is recorded that no economy has been included in the proposal, but we expect that this will not lead to the large costs. There is much that can be done by thinking about the treatment as a whole, increasing the interaction between child and youth psychiatry and adult psychiatry, and building on cooperation projects between the health centre and the psychiatric community and what is happening around the country. This is a good proposal that will improve the situation for those who need it, and the Left should be praised for putting it on the map.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08-2.ana.ud128e67	This is a proposal that everyone has agreed on can be an important improvement for those who are in the field of paediatric psychiatric treatment. Individual treatment is important, user involvement is important, and information is important. It is a danger if you change the treatment when it is appropriate for the patient, and not when it is appropriate for the patient. Studies show that outpatient clinics have the greatest potential for improvement in information and participation. At the request of the Health Directorate, the Knowledge Centre has now conducted a survey of supervisors, children and young people receiving treatment in outpatient paediatric and juvenile psychiatric clinics. The total response was 62 pst. that they were only informed to some extent, little or no, of treatment options. Only half of the superiors believed that they had an influence on the choice of treatment, and that they got the right information about the child's condition. So user involvement and individual evaluation of treatment services must always be given priority. We are often contacted by patients and relatives who feel that they are not getting the help they think they need and that they are getting too much bad information. Many people are also frustrated that they need to change their treatment often, which is demanding, and which in many cases is directly destructive to treatment. The Progress Party sees that treatment interruptions and substitutions are in many cases unlucky, and we therefore support the proposal that has been put forward. But we see that it could still be a problem even if it becomes a flexible scheme for them between 18 and 23 years old. We therefore believe that a system should be considered which eliminates the age limit for substitution treatment and that the patient can follow the patient from child and youth psychiatric treatment and into adult psychiatry where possible and the patient himself wants it. It takes a long time to build a trust relationship, and the prerequisite for a treatment to work is not always only professionally conditional. It may be a burden for a patient who has a well-functioning treatment schedule to change this because of age, even when they are 23 years old. The Party therefore considers that it is necessary to review and assess the positive and negative consequences of the possible removal of the age limit, so that changes in treatment arrangements and change of treatment are adapted at all times to the patient’s needs. I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08-2.ana.ud128e82	The representative of Vigdis Giltun has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08-2.ana.ud128e85	I will give tribute to the Left who has addressed this issue of maintaining therapeutic treatment in the transition between childhood and youth psychiatry and adult psychiatry. Thanks also to the case rapporteur, who has explained the matter in a thorough and good manner. It is very good that there is a unanimous committee in favour of this proposal. Interaction is one of the main challenges facing the health system today. This applies not only to psychiatry, but also to somatic matters. It applies both between levels and within each level. Poor interaction primarily affects patients who feel that there is a complete lack of treatment. Child and youth psychiatry and adult psychiatry have a particular responsibility for making the transition more flexible. As many people have experienced, the age limit is set, very unfortunate, perhaps especially in this area because you are very dependent on the trust ratio that is built up over time. I'm not going to extend the debate. This is a good proposal. I am very pleased that there is a unanimous committee that has joined this, and I am looking forward to the Government being able to facilitate a more flexible and better transition between childhood and youth psychiatry and adult psychiatry.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08-2.ana.ud128e96	The representative proposal reveals the problem that easily arises when young people in psychiatric treatment pass 18 years of age and thus belong to adult psychiatry. Interaction is a challenge between levels - as several have pointed out - of healthcare, but also within the same level, which is the reason for this proposal. There is clearly a need for a smoother transition for young people with BUP offers, child and youth psychiatry, to adult psychiatry. It is important to allow patients to retain treatment even after the age of 18 and until the age of 23 when the patient wants it. The proposal must also be seen in the context of the legislative amendment previously adopted, Ot.prp. No 53 for 2006-2007 on a waiting period guarantee for children and young people under 23 years of age, so that these age limits are consistent. It is important to get good interaction practices that serve the patient. Children and adolescents with mental disorders belong to a vulnerable group. Having to end a patient/treatment relationship because you reach the magic limit of 18 years, obviously creates problems for someone. It is therefore positive that an overall committee asks the Government to facilitate that young people with offers within the BUP, child and youth psychiatry, even after reaching the age of 18 may retain their treatment in cases where a trust relationship is established and the young seas so desire, with a limit of up to 23 years. The left-wing representative, Gunvald Ludvigsen, deserves to be praised with the other representatives of the Left behind this proposal. It's a good suggestion, with good logic, and to which an overall committee actually joins.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08-2.ana.ud128e105	I want to thank the case spokesperson for a good deal, and then I must be allowed to thank my fellow representatives who have had the word here today. It's not often that the Left gets so unisonous brilliance and praise from all the parties, so we almost don't know how to deal with it. In any case, I would say that I am very pleased with what is being said. But those who can really enjoy themselves the most, of course, are the patient group in question, that is, the 18-25-year-olds to whom this proposal is addressed. By deciding today that young people should be entitled to retain the same therapist at the time of the transition from the BUP to the adult psychiatry, they can therefore maintain the trust they have established in their first phase of treatment that several representatives have had. Many young people have established a trust relationship with a therapist in childhood and youth psychiatry. Maybe they come in here relatively late, maybe like 16-17-year-olds -- they've only had their therapist for a relatively short time -- and they're suddenly 18 years old. That's what's critical. It's a critical age -- we all know that. What the proposal is proposing is that the old health bureaucratic barrier between these two psychiatric levels is now being removed. It also has our other representatives who have referred to the concept of interaction. Sometimes we actually have to stick our finger a little bit in the ground. When it comes to interaction, we often think between different levels, but here we talk within the same level, in a way. It's just that one should go out one door, and then one should go through another door. It is polite and reasonable that we all see that this other door may be difficult to get through. I am therefore very happy that we are some about this. Age limits, as I said, create a breach in the negotiations, which can be very unfortunate, which other representatives have also been involved in, not least for this particularly vulnerable group. I'm not going to drag this out that far. I just want to say that such a smoother transition as our proposal adds, at least it's something that I think should be successful for everyone, not just for the patients, but it'll also be wise for you to get to a system so that the therapists also know that there's such a transition, so that one kind of has a horizon in its own treatment, and that there's a lot more continuity and logic for all parties. In the end, I just want to say that I now expect the Minister of Health to follow up the decision and get ahead of the implementation of the scheme. We look forward to righting how the Council of State will deal with this, and what view it might have of the substance of this proposal itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08-2.ana.ud128e120	I can also join the rose of the left. I agree with Mr Ludvigsen that this is very good for young people. The Roadmap for Mental Health clearly aims to adapt services to users and to be coherent and coherent, as has been the case with several speakers. Surveys carried out in the context of the escalation plan show the need for a more gradual transition from mental health protection for the paediatric population to mental health protection for adults, as suggested by the proposers and also the Committee. The provision of services shall be designed according to the type of assistance needed by the child or youth. Necessary interaction between the establishment and levels - or a good therapeutic relationship - shall not be impaired or hindered by age limits that define whether you are a child or an adult in mental health protection. There are no provisions in today’s legislation that prevent children and young people over 18 years of age from being treated in mental health protection for children and young people. However, there is clearly a need to clarify the reimbursement arrangements, so that any obstacles to the rest of the legislation are removed. When it opens up – and I think it makes sense – that children and young people can keep the same treatment beyond the 18-year-old age limit, we must at the same time ensure that it is possible for someone under 18 to enter directly into mental health protection for adults. This may, for example: be relevant when a 17-year-old needs help and that there will be a need for follow-up in the specialist healthcare service over time. There are different practices in this area around the country, but exceptions are made to current age limits when there are serious professional reasons for this. We're assuming that about 5 pst. of all children in Norway will need help in mental health protection for children and young people. We are expected to meet this need by the end of this year. We are currently treating more than twice as many children and young people as in 1998, but we are not in the target, because we all know that the waiting time for mental health protection for children and young people is still considerably longer than in mental health protection for adults. The reason is that there are many more people who are asking for help from the paediatric psychiatry, i.e. the BUP. We need to continue to work on improving the availability of mental health care even after the phasing-out of the escalation plan at the end of this year. The waiting time guarantee, which several speakers have had, comes into force from 1 September of this year, and is, of course, also very important in relation to this problem. In this context, there will be a guide on the waiting time guarantee intended for those working with children and young people in need of such assistance. In addition, new guidance on professional priorities will be put in place to ensure that children and young people are properly prioritised in the specialist health service. Greater flexibility across age limits is good, as we also see. But we have to make sure that this does not go beyond the youngest children, who also need mental health care in specialist health services. Nor should the waiting time in childhood and youth psychiatry increase at the expense of this proposal, which I think is good. Children and young people with mental illness should receive appropriate help at the right level and at the right time. More flexible use of age limits will be important in this context. So I want to get back to Stortinget in a suitable way about how we can solve this, so that young people who need the most follow-up after age 18 get it -- but without going beyond the youngest children who need help from childhood and youth psychiatry.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08-2.ana.ud128e137	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08-2.ana.ud128e141	Unfortunately, the psychiatry as a system often invites you to break relationships between people. This applies not only to the transition between adult psychiatry and child psychiatry, but also to the general psychiatry. In the worst case, an adult who becomes mentally ill may be at risk of meeting one treatment practitioner in an outpatient emergency team, a new treatment provider in the emergency department, a new treatment provider in another bedside facility, a new treatment provider in the outpatient clinic and a new treatment provider in the municipality. This leads quickly to swing door spacers. It's also depressing and exhausting for a patient to tell his story over and over again to people you don't know. It takes time to build relationships. A good relationship is often necessary for good treatment. Avoiding a broken relationship is particularly important for these young people we are talking about today, who have damage to their relationship. Many patients with this problem have experienced that the people they could trust, as close caregivers, have not been able to trust. Then it takes time to build trust. It will be important for the patient to have corrective relationship experiences and to experience that good relations with other people can be achieved. At a rigid 18-year-old age, much valuable time went away to prepare for the transition to adult psychiatry - a time that could have been used for more treatment-oriented interventions. Preparing patients for a relationship break, for a new therapist to take over, is something that can take, and often takes, a long time. When 16-18-year-olds are referred to, it may also be tempting for the helper to wait a little while for treatment until they are 18 years old. But then they're going on to adult psychiatry. It is important that young people have the opportunity to get to treatment quickly, as there is an age at which good treatment can have much to say for development later. Change potential is high. In the therapies in which the youth is linked to treatment, a relationship break can be a new confirmation that entering into a relationship is not beneficial. Thus, a treatment-patient relationship break can be a confirmation that good relations always end up with breakage, disappointment and rejection. Therefore, treatment providers should be more able to follow the patient, regardless of the patient’s needs, across bedside and outpatient settings. I am pleased that a unanimous committee has voted in favour of the Left's proposal today. The patient should be placed in the centre, not the system. This is a challenge for the psychiatry ahead!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08-2.ana.ud128e154	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Footing, see page 3214]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08-2.ana.ud128e162	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08-2.ana.ud128e172	During the debate, Peter Skovholt Gitmark presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for action to be taken on an energy policy action plan dealing with expected power consumption and production in Norway, the availability of different energy technologies and an overall commitment to the development of new energy sources.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee will be rejected. The Committee had recommended that: Document No 8:37 [[2007-2008]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08-2.ana.ud128e197	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 2, from Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right The vote will be taken at the next voting time on proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for an expert alternative power project to ensure acceptable security of supply in Central Norway with better economy and lower greenhouse gas emissions compared to the power produced than the planned mobile gas power stations on the Tjeldbergodden and Aukra’.» The voting boards showed that there were 65 voices against and 35 voices for the proposal from the Progress Party and the Right. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 18.35.01]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08-2.ana.ud128e218	I voted wrong. I had to vote in favour, but I voted against.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08-2.ana.ud128e223	Then there will be 64 voices against and 36 voices for the proposal from the Progress Party and the Right - with these votes the proposal is not accepted. There will be so much talk about proposal No. 1, from the Advance Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote an action plan with concrete measures to address a supply crisis in the power supply to Trøndelag and Møre and Romesdal, and to present it to the Stortinge in the 2008 harvest.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08-2.ana.ud128e251	In Case No: 4 and 5 do not present a voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08-2.ana.ud128e289	During the debate, Mr Giltun presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to review all the issues related to the possible removal of the age limits between the paediatric psychiatry and adult psychiatry and to the issue before the Storting.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08-2.ana.ud128e323	There is no record available. This means that today's maps are ready. Would you like to speak the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
