ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e22	The President will, because this is the first meeting in the United Kingdom in 2008, be allowed to wish all the representatives and all the others who have their daily work in the United Kingdom, a really good new year - and express the hope that 2008 will be a good year for the Grand Duchy's work. Representatives of Gunvor Eldegard, Ulf Erik Knudsen, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, Hill-Marta Solberg, Thore A. Nistad, Trond Lode and Tove Karoline Knutsen, who has been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternate of the South-Trøndelag County, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, has taken the seat. A number of permit applications are available: from the representatives of Harald T. Nesvik and Åsa Elvik on leave of absence from 9 January to 14 March, both to participate in the spring course of the Defence College of the Christian People's Party on the leave of the representative May-Helen Molvær Grimstad on days 9 and 10 January in order to participate in language courses in the United Kingdom from the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen on maternity leave in the period from 9 January to 15 February from the representative Ola Borten Moe on maternity leave in the period from 9 January to 20 February from the Party of Great Britain on sick leave for the representative Lodve Solholm from 9 January to 15 February and until further notice from the Workers' Party on sickness leave for the representative Berit Brutby from 9 January to 20 January and until further from the Christian People's Party on welfare leave for the representative of the Dagruniksen from 9 January to 9 January and until further from 9 January to 9 January and until further from 9 January the full-day working party on behalf of the Working Party on sick leave for the representative Berit Brby The President proposes that these applications be examined immediately and accepted. - It is deemed to have been adopted. The first representative of the West-Agder County, Sigmund Kroslid, is currently abroad and is therefore prevented from meeting in the Stortinge from 9 January to 13 January under the mandate of the representative Dagrun Eriksen. From the first alternate of the Nordland County of Geir-Ketil Hansen and the first alternate of the South-Trøndelag County of Trond Nylende Jær there is an application to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget under the representatives of Åsa Elviks and Ola Borten Moes, respectively, due to illness. The President proposes that these applications be examined immediately and accepted. - It is deemed to have been adopted. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For the West-Agder counties: Karen Marie Hartmark and Sigmund KroslidFor the Mora and Romesdal counties: Harald Valved, Åge Austheim, Svein Gelseth and Modulf AukanFor the Nordic counties: Johanne SkjølbergFor the Uppland counties: Stein KnutsenFor the Rogaland counties: Bente ThorsenFor the South-Trøndelag counties: Randi Sollie Denstad For the Nordland counties: Johanne SkjølbergFor the Uppland counties: Stein KnutsenFor the Rogaland counties: Bente ThorsenFor the South-Trøndelag counties: Randi Sollie Denstad For the Eastheim, Modulf Ökan and Randi Sollie Denstad are elected to the Lamentation for the time they meet respectively for the representatives of Lodve Solholm, May-Helen Molver Grimstad and Ola Borten Moe.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e173	Karen Marie Hartmark, Harald Valved, Åge Austheim, Svein Gelseth, Modulf Aukan, Johanne Skjølberg, Stein Knutsen, Bente Thorsen and Randi Sollie Denstad are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e179	On the basis of the fourth paragraph of Section 26 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the scheduled weekly programme for the current week be amended so that, on Thursday 10 January following the end of the Grand Summit, the minutes of the Odelstinget meeting are held. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e185	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meeting today - and consider it adopted. The President will propose Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr and Solvency Horne. Other proposals are not available, and Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr and Solvency Horne are unanimously elected as chairman of the Stortinget meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e199	The proposition will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The representative of Mr Trine Skei Grande will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e203	I am delighted to make proposals on behalf of the representatives of Gunvald Ludvigsen, Anne Margrethe Larsen, Gunnar Kvassheim and myself on the opportunity to maintain therapeutic treatment in the transition between child and youth psychiatry and adult psychiatry.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e208	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e233	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Tora Aasland Council Magnhild Melting Council Kleppa Council Helga Pedersen The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. AscendingSort order for mail groups We will then start with the first main question, from the representative Per-Willy Amundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e252	My question goes to the municipal minister Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa. Happy New Year, by the way! Not least a good new year to the Council of State-- she might need that, because there's someone who doesn't meet a good new year, then it's Norwegian municipalities. A number of municipalities over the country budget, now at the end of 2007, had to cut dramatically in their own services. The basic pillar of Velferds-Norway itself, the municipal services - care for the elderly, schooling - now needs to be cut because the government in its budget has not provided sufficient funds to meet the cost growth. It's about increasing pension obligations, it's about increasing wages, it's about a number of cost factors that the municipalities are now facing, and it's not meeting in the financial arrangement that the government has brought to the municipalities. The SSB has calculated it and already stated on 29 November that there is a shortage of around NOK 2 billion just to meet the cost growth in the Municipality of Norway. Here the government obviously has not followed up its promises. You don't give enough money to defend good services in Municipality-Norway. Then I'd like to ask the Council of State, where are the municipalities going to cut? Are they going to lay down sick homes, or are there schools to be closed, to meet the harsh economic everyday life that this Government has put on them?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e265	Let me first thank you for a kind New Year's greeting, both for me and for the Norwegian municipality. Let me also wish both the representative Amundsen and others in Stortinget a good new year. So to the question, it's right, as Per-Willy Amundsen says here, that there are a number of municipalities that have challenges today, and that despite the fact that the Government has in two years provided significant funds to Norwegian municipalities. The 2006 accounts show a significant increase in both care, school and other services. The overview for the third quarter, which is the last one we have with the 2007 debt, compared to 2006, shows that the municipalities have used 15 pst. More for kindergartens, choose 7 pst. more for school and 10 pst. more to care for the elderly. I am humble in view of the challenges that the municipalities now face, and which can be attributed to - as Amundsen says - both increasing compensation of employees, increasing pension costs and other conditions. I have no doubt that the best way to assess how the funds are to be prioritised locally is by the municipalities. They don't need additional advice from the municipal minister when it comes to it. The 2007 account is not ready yet. That's when we'll get an overview of whether the Central Statistical Office is right in what they say. It's too soon. What the government has done is we've added 21 billion dollars in total over three years. A good part of these money is free income. What the government has also said is that we are busy with equivalent provision in municipalities, both in care, schooling, health and other matters. Therefore, we will still be on to secure the community over other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e276	It is quite symptomatic that every time this government is confronted with local economy, it is referred to the snow that fell last year, to what happened earlier - in 2006 and partly in 2007. But now there's a new situation, a situation where municipalities have to cut off a number of services. I can take an example from the municipality of Harstad, which in fact has a budget deficit of 127 million this year. So it's going to be 10 pst. of a total budget of DKK 1.2 billion. That's dramatic! Of course, it's dramatic, and that's because on top of the fact that the municipality itself has not made sure to have a well-sustained economy, you don't get the appropriations from the government that you thought you were going to get. After all, you have believed in the promises that have come all along, and then it is not useful to refer to what has happened in previous years. My challenge to the council remains: where should you cut when the money is not there, and when there is no automatic means of financing these services properly?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e285	I'm not sure if 'the snow that fell last year' is the right expression, but let me also use it, because it's 'the snow that fell last year', which means that there are now 10,000 more annual shifts in the care of the elderly in a short time, that there are now 25,000 more kids in the kindergarten, and that there are now no more 104 municipalities on the ROBEK list, but 42. This is because the country has a government that prioritises the municipal sector. Both I and the rest of the government assume that there has been a cost increase here. That's what made the government also adjust the cost growth from the revised to the budget this year. But the final numbers for 2007 are not ready. The situation in many municipalities follows us very closely. That's because we're busy securing...
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e292	There will be three follow-up questions - first Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e295	On 26 November 2007, Minister of Knowledge Bård Vegar Solhjell sent out a press release expressing concern for cutbacks in school. The Minister of Knowledge said he received many messages about the closures of schools and cut teaching positions. ‘We have to set the level by industry’, says the group leader of the Centerpartie Arne Kleppa to Stavanger Aftenblad on 28 November 2007. There are now proposals in the municipality of Hjelmeland to drop out of Årdal school. On 5 January we could read on text-TV that four out of ten municipalities will reduce school budgets in 2008. It also says that among the municipalities that are involved in the study, it's the ones that are run by red-green politicians, who are going to cut the most. Does the Council of State think it acceptable for the red-green municipalities to cut the school budgets of the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e306	I share the minister of knowledge's concern when it comes to Norwegian school, and I think it is very good that both the Prime Minister and other government members now look at the searchlight on that very thing. So the situation is a little bit different in the municipalities. For me, it's a little fun to meet the situation in my own municipality. It is such that the Right has long stood for the centralisation of the schools in Hjelmeland. Now the students have said that more people think the same thing. My commitment is to do what I can to ensure that the municipalities get funds according to the tasks they have. I'm surprised that Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide also sees the difference that is in this field, between the previous government and the current one.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e316	Bjørg Tørersdal - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e319	I want to keep talking about the school, because it's once so that if you're going to get a better elementary school, the municipalities have to be able to do it financially. They must have financial room for action to bet on more teachers in school. Yesterday the prime minister said that now a bet will be even more in primary school, especially in literacy training, and it is not entirely related to seeing that many local authorities cut in teacher positions. When one is going to bet on school and extend school day, this cracks. Does not the Minister of Local Council see that there is a lack of coherence between putting extra money into primary school on the one hand and the fact that municipalities have to cut teaching positions for the current year on the other?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e326	I'm very pleased with the broad commitment that now seems to be also in Stortinget to strengthen the local authorities' ability to get a better school. I'm very happy that the country has a government that's busy with that. So it will be so that there are different relationships locally. In a total of one year, the municipalities probably used 7 pst. more in school than in the previous year, and there can be no doubt that a similar figure can be found between 2005 and 2006. So the government is continuously working to ensure consistency between tasks and resources. We're now in the process of making the municipal proposition for 2009, where this is going to be a theme again. We also look at a new income system that should be fairer than it is today, and that therefore should provide an even better basis for an equivalent supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e333	Åge Starheim - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e336	In the 2005 election campaign, they used the red-green image of empty swimming pools around the municipalities, and in the advertisement text they draw a glossy picture of how it would be if they came to power. In most of today's swimming pools it is dry as in the Sahara, and according to the president of the Norwegian Symjes Federation, Per Rune Eknes, Sogn and Fjordne are regarded as a disaster, both because of the number of empty swimming pools and because of the sewing skills of the children. Most people in Municipality-Noreg are not occupied by government quarter and red-green party tops, but by getting a public sector that can give the citizens the right to what they are entitled to, it's old-age care, school or swimming pool. The question is then: What would the Council of State do to follow these rises? Does the Council not see that the Progress Party has a point with ear-marked means, with a background in the Terra scandal and other negative media outlets within the care of the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e345	As I see it, the situation is very different from the municipality to the municipality. It also shows how the municipalities are currently using the funds. Some people need to strengthen their care for the elderly, and some people need to strengthen their school. This means that, in my view, ear-marked means are not the way to go. I think the swimming pool illustrates that there are still many important tasks that need to be solved locally, and it implies a strong commitment in the same direction that the government has already taken - that is, sure means to the municipalities according to the tasks to be solved. Terra-saka is not an example of how all municipalities solve their affairs, so we have to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e350	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e353	My question is also addressed to the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. I record that in the previous round of questions, this minister is also clinging to the 2006 figures and creating confusion about the situation in 2007 and what it is like now in 2008. There is little confusion about this, for the Minister of State may look up in the Minister of Finance's national budget on page 75 and page 76 and it is found that the free revenues of municipalities fell in 2007 and that the forecasts are that the free revenues of municipalities will also fall in 2008. That's the reality that those who are elected and were newly elected to the local government around the country, now actually have to deal with it. This is also the reason why the municipalities around and around the country now operate to tighten their budgets in most areas. This government's commitment to municipalities was a one-off effort in 2006, as opposed to the strong growth in free income we had both in 2004 and 2005. At the same time, members of the Government continue to promise more and more on behalf of the municipalities. Only in the autumn have they promised more drug treatment, sports, health care, rehabilitation, culture, increased social assistance rates, the maintenance of churches and schools and the homeless. This is just some of the promises that have come. Even on the 2nd anniversary of the government - in a situation where they knew that they were tightening up towards the municipalities - the government chose to highlight the promise in relation to the municipalities that the main government had received. This creates an expectation crisis in Kommune-Norway, and it has a high price, local democracy. What has the Council of State done to put an end to her own colleagues travelling country and beach around and promising more and more on behalf of the municipalities, while the Government is tightening up?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e366	It is almost an unreal situation to stand here and accept such ‘alves’ from a Right Representative, when it is no more than two years since the country had a government that had set up for four years and held a very tight hold on the municipal sector. What was the case when this government took over was that there were 102 municipalities that had to be followed in particular, which were on the so-called ROBEK list. What is also the case, and as the Government has done jointly, is soon to have 10,000 more annual work in the care of the elderly and 25 000 more young people in the kindergartens in 2006 and 2007. What has this state council done? So the government is a community. It is true, as Bent Höie says, that here are the tasks of the individual departments. But the representative, Höie, knows just as well as I do that in the municipal bill, there is a warning of a strengthening in several fields. The budget has been followed up by funds. So I say that I follow very closely the situation we are now in in the municipalities, because it's been a cost increase, because it's a wage increase. And it's clear that it's important for a government that's busy with the community, together to do what we can to ensure consistency between the tasks that we want the municipalities to solve -- and that the Right very often wants others to solve -- and the means to put them at their disposal. When it comes to the rise or fall in free income, it asks how to count on the growth of taxes...
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e375	In 2004 and 2005, there was a record growth in the free income of municipalities, so the picture that the councils are trying to create here is wrong. The reduction in the number of municipalities on the ROBEK list was stronger in the last two years under the Bondevik government than it has been in the last two years under this government. So that image is wrong to use in relation to the development of the local economy. The improvement was significantly better under Erna Solberg than it has been under the leadership of the Central Party in the Ministry of Local Affairs. The situation is that local politicians in this country cannot balance their budgets with this historic forgery by the Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa Council. Nor can they balance their budgets with the promises of her colleagues. The question is, is the Council of State willing to pay the high price it is, namely, undermining local democracy, in order to try to secure the stumps of this government's honor?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e384	There is no doubt that there are unresolved tasks before care, that there are unresolved tasks before school and before other areas in the municipalities. But there can't be any doubt that it's basically different to be a local government with a government that deliberately wants to bet on the community, and that shows it, than with a government that was more busy securing tax relief. We are now working on a municipal proposition that will give a picture of the 2007 situation that is more accurate than the situation that both the representative Höie and I can draw now. Then we will also show in the municipal bill how we think that the municipalities should be strengthened in 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e392	There will be three follow-up questions--first Kari Lise Holmberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e395	The expectation crisis in the municipal sector started with the last major election campaign. Repeatedly we were told that only a change of government would make the municipalities feel so much better. And it is true that countless posters showed empty baths that were to be filled. Now, two years later, many pools are still empty. The local economy is no better than ever. The national budget now shows that the free revenues are being reduced for the second consecutive year. And local government expenditure is increasing at record speed. The municipalities are bound on the hands and feet of the Government. They don't have enough room for action. For 50 years, the students at Stage School have been swimming and splashing around in the pool's chlorine water. Now the pool is full of concrete, wrote VG in November. Did the government blow up in the election campaign? And was it with concrete pools to be filled up?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e402	The answer is no. The method did not work out. Pools should not be filled with concrete. The Government shall continue its efforts to strengthen the Community. Let me take one example, the quality community program that we've seen, in which 89 municipalities are now involved. In these 89 municipalities they will add, the leaders locally and the local people together look at how they can get the best possible school and care locally. Twelve other municipalities are looking at the sick leave. If the municipalities could play better with them added and had their sick leave, they would have released a further $1.5 billion for other purposes. We work continuously.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e407	Ib Thomsen - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e410	According to the Newspaper, the head of the Trade Union, Jan Davidsen, believes that the Government does not keep what they promised in the Soria Moria Declaration. The manager also believes that there was a pure election bluff from the government. Davidsen believes that we now need a community uprising. Does the Council of State see that it may be problematic for the Trade Union, because by the fact that the Trade Union chose to grant election support to the Red-Green parties, do they now agree to legitimize this depriorization of the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e415	I thought it was very good that both Jan Davidsen and other leaders followed closely what is happening in the municipalities. They have their additions there. They know a lot about both the work to be done and the possibilities to do this work locally. It is important to follow closely also from the department's side. We have an open door. It's not that we get trains through the doors, but there are spokesmen and other representatives of the municipalities and tell us about the situation as he is now, and we take that very seriously. I hope Ib Thomsen sees that there is now a stronger commitment to strengthening the municipal sector than it was two years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e422	Lars Sponheim - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e425	Fortunately, water is still cheaper than concrete in this country, so I hope the government will save the municipalities from anything other than water in the pools. The Soria Moriarus of the municipalities is in a way over. Every day is here. It's hard budgeting rounds. It has to be prioritised, and it has to be cut -- as it always has been. Fortunately, we have a local democracy that can do that job. Local democracy is never as important as it is when priority needs to be given. That is what politics is all about. Had it been that there was an enormous amount of money and they were earmarked, we would hardly have needed politicians. Fortunately, we need politicians. The everyday life of the municipalities has become the way it has always been - very hard to get the ends to meet. Then it's important that the authorities stick to the pressure that has to be there, namely, to streamline, make things smarter, make things cheaper, make things easier. I'm afraid that the expectation crisis that was created has caused the municipalities to lower their shoulders somewhat when it comes to getting a little better every day. Does the Council of State make them that way?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e432	I think it is good that there are expectations both in the municipalities and among people most about better services, and it is good that local populace have expectations that the government will follow up. Let me expand on one example of how the Government is working to ensure greater efficiency in the services, that is, the quality community program. The unique thing about it is that local peoples, add and leaders get together around a table and see what they can do in their municipality to get the best possible care and the best possible schooling of the money. A major commitment is now reported back. So far, 89 municipalities are involved in this project. The goal is to have 200 at the end of the year. Otherwise, I am very happy that there are many local populace who see that efficiency is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e439	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e442	I have a question for the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. Last Saturday we wake up to the news that the Government will grant access to charge for all those who are engaged in business in the coastal zone. This sends waves of shock into different industries that depend on sea and coastal zones. This will weaken a strong competitive industry, says the Norwegian Maritime Association. The national association of energy companies announces an increase in grid rental. For my part, I must add that the proposal cannot be coordinated with a strong political desire for fewer dwindling, streamlining powerlines. Since my question goes to the Minister for Fisheries, I will focus on the impact on the industries related to fisheries and aquaculture. What these industries do not need is more and more complicated fees, because the government has not yet managed to fix the amount of the NOx levy on fishing. The government has also shown no willingness to look at the fisherman's deduction to improve the recruitment process for the industry. This is confusing. In addition, we have the Workers' Party's unexplained internal discussion on tax increases or not. According to the Newspaper on 5 January of this year, the Vice-Chairman of the Labour Party, Helga Pedersen, opens to increase the level of taxation in 2009. It is clearly a long way to go until the highly reported stable and prudent business environment. In fact, when it comes to fisheries and aquaculture, these industries have no alternative to drifting in the sea and coastal zones. My question is: does the Minister for Fisheries really think that the coastal industries' framework conditions will be improved by imposing such a coastal zone charge?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e457	The main challenge facing the aquaculture industry in Norway today is access to more land. In many fjords it's very crowded. It is the municipalities that direct the allocation of land to the farming industry, and many municipalities have been concerned that they have the costs of facilitating, but no possibility of getting it compensated - at least not in a start-up phase. In addition, they have no guarantee that farming facilities will remain in the municipality over time. Therefore, the government said that it would be considered in principle to give the municipalities access to take payment for the area. This is no news. This announced the Government in our strategy for a competitive aquaculture industry, which was presented at the Aqua Nor fair in Trondheim last August. It was a proposal that was very well received both in the industry and among the municipalities along the coast. Then we're going to have a proper procedure on how this can be implemented. It is a working group chaired by the Ministry of Finance that does the work. Recordings have been requested from the industries along the coast and the municipalities, so here everyone who has views on the matter has the opportunity to express their opinion before the Government concludes in the 2009 state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e464	What happened last Saturday was that this case received a significant revolution and a clarification of what one could expect from the Government. And we already know that when the compromise is about to be formed, it's very hard to get it done from the government's side. The industry does not need it, neither aquaculture nor fishing. There's so much instability, so much unattainable for the industry, like wear, and not just with the area. I cannot understand that a fee will improve access to space. It will weaken the ignition of an already suspended industry. In addition, they have challenges related to the market, feed osb. Many of the people who run this industry are not rich people who want to make it, as the government wants, but there are honest laborers who do the best they can and who try to get the ends to meet. The concern is very great that such a coastal zone fee will create an additional barrier to nutrition, and will reduce the number of lights along the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e471	This government is responsible for a fair tax policy in which those who have the most money must also contribute the most. Our 2004 tax promise is fixed in 2009, just so it's said. What taxes are going to be after that, we're going to get back to. I haven't called for a higher tax level, so don't let it get hanging here in the hall. In the case of the case on which Sørfonn primarily asked questions, the background to our proposal is precisely to ensure the industry access to the area. If you ask the farming industry what's their biggest challenge, probably most actors will answer that very question. It is then important that municipalities have both the capacity and the willingness to do that job, both by implementing coastal zone planning, which is a prerequisite for setting land for the aquaculture industry, and, where appropriate, by investing in infrastructure and other measures necessary to welcome the farming industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e478	There will be three follow-up questions - first Øyvind Korsberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e481	Let me just say that the Advance Party is against any form of property tax, whether it be to land, to water or in the air, if the Government were to get such ideas. Those who will have problems here are probably mainly the industries in the farming industry that are struggling with marginal profitability. I am thinking of shellfish farming and not least also cod farming and other types of industries, which will be hit hard. I want to ask questions about whether the Council of State will add that this fee is differentiated from different industries. I will also ask questions about other activities at sea will be affected by similar charges, such as industries related to windmills, ports, berths, ferries, cruises, tare trawling and other fishing activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e490	I think it's quite interesting to observe that the Progress Party earlier in the spontaneous question hour today has been worried about the local economy, but at the same time they are taking away from property tax, which actually adds the same municipalities income. Then it is clear that we from the Government will continue to work to ensure profitability in all parts of the sea food industry. I have to remember that 2007 was a record year for the seafood industry. Seafood was exported for 37 billion kroner, and especially joyous was the growth in exports of cattle. This is a very positive development. This is not least due to the fact that appropriations for research and development have been made available by the authorities. Thus, in the case of the process of any charge for the use of seas, there is a process managed by the Ministry of Finance. What the conclusions become after that process is too early to say anything about.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e499	Torbjørn Hansen - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e502	When the Workers' Party was in opposition, they promised a new and active industrial policy, and that there would be light in houses along the coast - and that was especially along the coast of the Workers' Party to invest in industrial policy. This proposal goes straight into the range of proposals that exacerbate the framework conditions for coastal industry. Previously, we have the NOx tax that reduces the profitability of the fishing industry by nearly 200 million. kr, apparently an environmental victory for the Socialist Left Party. In 2008, we have DKK 1.4 billion in tax consolidation for the maritime cluster, also a victory for the Socialist Left Party. In the evening post on Saturday we could read that the State Secretary of the Socialist Left Party in the Ministry of the Environment wanted to introduce a new principle of taxation, namely an area charge for Coast Norway, which would weaken the competitiveness of all industrial activities using the coast. Doesn't the Workers' Party see that this is a dramatic breach of promises? There are no state councils in the government that defend the coastal industry when that kind of thing comes up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e514	So when it comes to the issue of the access of municipalities to charge for the use of the coastal zone area, it's something I presented at the Aqua Nor fair in Trondheim. The aim of that proposal is precisely to ensure the industry access to land, which it very strongly wants. The industry also received that proposal very positively, and now the Ministry of Finance is listening very carefully to all the input into the work to be done. The government has just submitted proposals for a new marine resource law. We have put forward a new structural policy. We have almost doubled the marine value creation programme, and in 2008 we will have a special focus on the coastal communities that are struggling. We have a government investment fund where half a billion dollars are earmarked for the marine sector. Export record was set in 2007, and the profitability survey also shows that the situation is evenly higher at fleet level. So the crisis description that the opposition in Stortinget is trying to draw from the marine industry, I don't share.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e521	Leif Helge Kongshaug - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e524	History has shown that the farming industry is a cyclical industry with strong international competition. In the EU market, there is a competitor such as Scotland, and otherwise Chile – especially in the salmon industry. Now we have new industries in the traditional aquaculture industry. I am thinking about the shellfish industry, which has not got a proper foothold, and also the cod industry. I am a little concerned about the total tax burden and the competitive situation. In addition to the general levies and taxes, the farming industry is now paying research fees, export taxes, fees to the Food Authority, and they also have large transport costs to the market. Perhaps the worst is the competitive edge of recruiting people to the industry, because of the net pay regime in the merchant fleet. Now we're talking about a land tax. What does the Council of State think about the future competitive situation in the farming industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e536	We have incredibly good numbers to point to for 2007 and an incredibly positive development both for the farming industry and for the traditional fishing industry. So it's obvious that in nature-based industries it'll swing, even in the future. But at least it shouldn't be on the government's efforts. We will continue to create a fisheries policy, a policy for aquaculture, which will facilitate profitable jobs across the coast. We will continue to give priority to marine research, including: Breeding storks are one of the highest priority species. It's also a cause for the good results we're now seeing. Without the long-term research effort, it would not have been as good as it is now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e543	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e546	My question goes to the State Council of Aasland. I must express on behalf of myself and the Left, who are so committed to research questions, that it is a pleasure to wish - for the first time - a pure minister of research welcome in the spontaneous Question Time! I can't promise that it will be like this every time, but the Council of State has to expect that when she's here in these question hours, the Left will be involved in research questions, and we want a dialogue on it. We are probably also among those who have strongly advocated that a government needs its own research minister. After many years of government, it is my clear experience and perception that it is important to have one who has a voice about research and has no other errands around a government table to get to the right priorities. But it's not enough alone. There is only one contribution to increasing research efforts and a new and more important research policy in the future. The predecessors of the Council of State became enraged by their opinion, which was probably more of an excuse on behalf of the Government, about a so-called severance in research policy after poor budgetary rounds in government. Our expectation to the new Minister of Research is that the cutting of the rest should move to rapid speed towards targets. It was therefore very surprising that we could read in an interview in the magazine Research that the research minister blew off the research goal of 3 pst. of GDP and replaced it by a statement that it should be there as a star to reach for. Now I didn't think the government, after a failed moon landing, would operate more at space speed, but that was the way it was! If one were to be a little polemic, one could say that the rest cutter was not replaced by the race being blown off, but that one has sat on the stands and looked at the stars. My question to the Council of State is simply: What does the Council of State want in research policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e559	I would like to thank Sponheim and Left for the commitment to research and higher education and thank you for the invitation to dialogue that came here. I want both Sponheim and Left in a star alliance, but I hope it should be concrete! I've earlier here in Stortinget stated that the 3 pst. goal is. We stand by that. It's a tough case, and I want to remind all of us that it takes two important players to achieve that goal. One is ourselves, by the state, and the other is business, which is to account for two of the three percent of the research effort. My task is to try to reach the goal of the state, 1 pst. of which by 2010 and at the same time stimulate business to participate and bet. I am very aware that we do not get a bet from business if we do not do anything ourselves. It's absolutely my ambition to do the maximum. It is not necessary for me to frame the representative Sponheim all the good research projects that we have started, and that we could have had more of, but I will stress my will and my ambition to get this done. I am absolutely convinced that we alone will not do so, because we do not completely control business in this matter. The most important thing I can do is to motivate our educational and research institutions and to stimulate business.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e566	Clearly, bringing business with it is crucial to achieving the research objectives we have set. Perhaps the most important contribution in recent years has been the TaxFUNN scheme, which has made business a great contribution. Now last night I had the pleasure of hearing the Council of State handing out the Innovation Prize from the NHO to a great company that helps solve the environmental problems, Wema System AS. Then I heard the council in its delight over the distribution saying that thanks to the government's arrangements this company had achieved what they had. Now the only system that Wema System has used has been the TaxFUNN system, which today's government parties opposed, and which today's government has weakened. Nevertheless, I took this as a sign that perhaps the new Minister of Research is wholeheartedly in favour of the SkattenFUNN scheme and rather warns that it should be strengthened and improved, precisely to make the business more involved in research.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e573	I want to look forward, and I want to include all the good tools that can stimulate research. In my efforts to get this done, it is important to have close contact with the other government councils, not least the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade. His department is about to present a communication on innovation, where we from the Ministry of Knowledge are also involved. I hope that through that work we can strengthen good systems that stimulate research. Of course, I am glad that yesterday the company from Bergen received the Innovation Prize. I suppose it was deserved!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e580	There will be three follow-up questions - first Anders Anundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e583	We are in a somewhat strange situation in research policy now. Talking to two tongues is rarely appreciated, but now we have a research council that opens up and talks to two tongues. Today we have heard that she is talking about a «star alliance», about an unrealistic «3 pst. goal» by 2010. This creates some challenges, and at the latest in the TV 2 News channel yesterday, the Council of State said something like that, in relation to the objectives, the steps we are taking are a little too small. I suppose the Council of State then referred to the steps taken by the Government, which are far too small in relation to the objective we have in research policy. The Progress Party believes that one of two has to be done here. Either you have to say that the 3 pst. goal is not going to be achieved, and you have to create a new target plan, or you just have to take larger steps and step up vigorously, so that we can achieve the 3 pst. goal by 2010. What does the Council of State choose?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e590	Thank you for the question. I'm not talking to two tongues. I just recognize that the goal is ambitious, and in the choice between the recipes of the Advance Party, it might be tempting to say yes, both of them. I'm going to be careful to say that I want to work to achieve the goal. It's a time perspective on this, and it's a demanding matter, but it's my ambition. That's what I'm working for now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e595	Gunnar Gundersen - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e598	I was also present during the distribution of the Innovation Prize yesterday, and I was delighted to see that the Council of State was very concerned about thanking the TaxFUNN scheme. She was actually so concerned that I think she forgot to praise the founders behind the company. It's a little strange in the light of the fact that the Government has actually tightened up the TaxFUNN system, and that the Right and the Opposition, in their alternative budgets, have proposed a strengthening of the system, because, as the Minister says, there is nothing here but the government's participation in giving the right incentives to the scheme. Then I noticed that she did not answer Sponheim's question either. Now there's an evaluation of the TaxFUNN scheme, which is right around the corner, and the rumors say it's quite positive. So the question is, can the Council of State assure that, in the light of the price distribution yesterday and hopefully in the light of the evaluation that is coming, she will not do anything to further weaken the TaxFUNN scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e608	I would, of course, also like to stress here that I was very humble and grateful to the company yesterday. So don't say that. With regard to the TaxFUNN scheme and other important instruments to stimulate research, I pointed out the Innovation Communication from the Ministry of Industry and Trade. This is under work, and it is also a cooperation between the different members of the Government. I don't want to shoot anything, but I'm going to promise both the representative and not least ourselves in the government that we will be very careful about which arrangements work, and which ones don't work. If there's positive feedback, we'll take them with us, of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e618	Karen Marie Hartmark - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e621	The representative Sponheim underlined the need for a stronger effort in research in Norway. Concrete measures are important to achieve more research, including in business. Yesterday, at the NHO annual conference, there was a clear message about this, including: because it has good ring-effects for the rest of society. An effective measure, which has also been mentioned now, is the TAX FUNN scheme. The Minister says that she will strengthen good schemes that also stimulate research in the business world. Does this mean that the Minister will strengthen the TaxFUNN scheme that the Government has previously weakened? Can we get a clear answer to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e628	I am pleased that I have many with me in finding both good arguments and good tools to strengthen research. The TaxFUNN is one of the elements we have. I will repeat that this is not my responsibility alone. I am here with several government councils, among others. the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade who is directly responsible for this. But in his message of innovation, me and my department are also involved, and I can promise again, and I repeat what I said instead, that we will look at all the good schemes that also in case prove to have worked positively, when we're going to stimulate business to be on the team and do more research.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e633	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e636	My question goes to the State Council of Aasland. Norwegian students are internationally known for having poor knowledge of mathematics. Despite the fact that we have had a real vocational training in this country for several years, the results of this real-time vocational training are very poor, according to the evaluation report. This appears to be propagating in the rest of the education system, including in the case of higher education. In the evening post on Monday we could read that of 250 students who signed up for Matt1000 at the University of Oslo, 49 were deleted. Of those who passed, the average character was D, and no student got the best grade, which is A. The government's commitment to higher education includes, among other things: led to the University of Oslo in 2008 having to cut 205 million. kr in its budgets. The mathematical-natural faculty at the University of Oslo must alone cut 22.9 million. kr. There is a strong concern throughout Knowledge Norway about the benevolent results that the students perform, and I will challenge the Council of State as follows: how does the Council of State believe that further cuts at the educational institutions will help to improve students' skills, for example. math?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e647	I share the representative's concern about mathematics and have a lot of understanding that it's a topic for discussion. As a government council, I don't interfere with the universities' internal priorities, so it's uplifting that the University of Oslo in the same article says that they see their responsibility in just getting the level of math skills raised. However, what is my responsibility, which was also the responsibility of the representative, has to do with the framework conditions and the overall conditions. Then, of course, money is one thing, and that's one thing that we're working on in budgetary terms. But there are also other instruments here. I hope that the real science promises will also work in the longer term, especially if you have the institutions with you. I also want to mention, and I'm glad to have an opportunity to do that, that now that we're going through teacher training, which I think is an important factor in this because it has motivation to do with competence, we'll try, through what we'll hopefully be able to bring forward to debate in the Stortinget, to motivate more teacher students to choose depression in mathematics and real science. Too few people do it today. So we're going to get a little bit too weak a starting point. Then we also need to ensure that the content of mathematics in teacher education is consistent with the needs. We have a challenge when we see how this reproduces in the university system. I can see that. But this is among what we'll try to bet on to make the picture better in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e656	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. The reality is that, despite the real-time training exercise, which has led more students to choose a real-life course in primary education, the level of knowledge of the students does not increase. Nor has any higher level of knowledge been reflected among students. That is very worrying. It's actually dramatic. I do not feel that the Council of State has really recognised how dramatic it would be for Norway in the long term if she did not manage to resolve this situation quickly. I think the measures mentioned by the Council of State are not good enough. They're kind of back in time. There are no new measures. I am absolutely sure that a government council with great ambitions for higher education, as the Council of State claims she has, will see its responsibilities and do something about the framework conditions for higher education, among other things. in the case of economics. But if we ignore the economy for a little while, although it's very important, what four new measures - new measures - will this government implement in 2008 to improve students' knowledge of mathematics?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e668	I have mentioned some of the measures already in progress. I think it is equally important to think about how we can strengthen and possibly change the device of some of the measures that are, rather than constantly finding new measures. But I'm also concerned that we're looking for it, and of course I'm open to ideas for actions that can help strengthen competence. One measure that I did not mention in my previous reply is the continued strengthening of continuing training for teachers, including: in just mathematics and real science. I actually think that in this case something more of the same thing that we've been doing, at least be part of the solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e675	There will be follow-up questions - Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e678	It's not just at the mathematics studies at the University of Oslo that calls for warning. It has also been bad at the Chemical Institute at NTNU. The laboratory time has been half long. This has happened after SV got into the government. A lot of students at NTNU say they're worried about the education they get. In addition, we know that the cut that has come into the basic appropriations of universities and colleges is a very cowardly cut, simply because the government expects the institutions to take the burden of pointing to where to cut it. The government really expects the same activity for much less money. We now know that it has great consequences, not only at the University of Oslo, but also at other large and small institutions around this country. How does the Council of State expect institutions to be able to undertake good and quality education for the students currently at the institutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e686	It is an important prerequisite for the quality reform that institutions should be autonomous, so they should have a very high degree of governance over their own framework. But of course it does not take the overall responsibility for the framework away from me. It is, as I said in my previous answer, an important budgetary question, which, of course, I cannot say anything more about here. I would still like to stress that it is the responsibility of universities to give priority to the framework they have at all times, and perhaps to be a little alert to the important themes and areas, such as: real science, which is a very special field of activity, and which should be given the priority it should have, regardless of the framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e693	Bjørg Tørersdal - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e696	I think that if we're going to get good students in mathematics, we have to start getting good students in mathematics at primary school. We have to lay the foundation there. If we're going to get good students in mathematics, we need good teachers who teach mathematics. We have a challenge because it has to be more attractive to be a lecturer in mathematics and science in teacher education. It's like today that a lecturer with e.g. 10 years of experience will be reduced in wages if he goes from high school to teacher training. It should be much more attractive to work in teacher training. My question to the Council of State is: What will the Council of State do to make this more attractive, so that we ensure the best teachers in teacher training?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e701	I mentioned in one of my previous answers that we are now working on teacher training. One of the most important objectives is to raise the status of both teachers and teachers. In order to achieve that, there is one important requirement, and it goes on recording. How are we going to be able to recruit for teacher training, i.e. our future teachers, the best, the motivated, and how are we going to be able to get them into an education that helps to further develop the good qualities that are not only about professional competence but also about the ability to motivate and stimulate good learning? That's a very important question for us. I am pleased that it was taken up and underlined by the representative Tørresdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e706	Let's move on to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e709	My question goes to the Minister of Research and Higher Education. The Council of State began its Council of State period by giving a lecture in which she called for the sector’s arguments for research. The arguments are very much to be found, among other things. in the Research Communication adopted in 2005 by a cross-political nature. In this way, the Council of State has continued its career in creating uncertainty as to whether the objectives of the Research Communication remain firm. It's been a lot back and forth with the 3pst goal -- if it's stuck in its present form, if it's going to be pushed to 2020. There has at all been considerable uncertainty as to what the country's contribution to research should be. At best, there's an uncertainty. In the worst case, there is a cross-political and unanimously agreed objective that has been abandoned. In addition, the Government has resorted to a practice in which it uses the research fund’s returns in a completely different way from those envisaged. Now, the research fund’s return is not used to secure long-term money, but to secure appropriations for current expenditure, such as: the financing of the quota in the 7th EU Framework Programme for Research and, in particular, the financing of State budget scholarships. This means, therefore, that the Research Fund as a mechanism for securing long-term research appropriations in the near future is destroyed. We also know that one of the nostrils of Norwegian research, Professor Per Brandtzäg, wrote a chronicle in VG on Wednesday December 12, where he says: ‘Research Minister Tora Aasland and Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen have the key to saving Norwegian research. But so far, the SV Council of State action stands in stark contrast to the party's promises before the elections." I would add: it is also in stark contrast to the unanimous agreed research message we have. My question is, how does the Government plan to achieve the public research target by 2010?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e729	As far as the research goal is concerned, I'm going to repeat -- as I've done several times in this room -- that the goal is fixed. There is a considerable amount of activity now to put in place the necessary strategic and concrete projects according to the Research Communication adopted by the Stortinget, in order to continue that strategy to achieve the objective. But I will honestly admit here too that it's demanding, and we've gone a little too small. This applies to both the country and the business community. So I'm not going to hide that it's a demanding exercise. But I'm doing absolutely what I can to get it done, and to continue with the strategy that's begun, to which the Storting has joined, by investing in important areas. Now some of these areas have become particularly important in recent times. Not least in the field of environment and climate, which was also part of the elements of the Research Communication. With regard to the Research Fund and the use of funds for different parts of research, the representative Eriksen Soreide is quite right that some of the research fund's returns have now been used for EU research. However, I would say that research on the 7th framework programme of the EU is a very important part of Norwegian research. I see the point of restricting the freedom of action within the Research Council, but I still see the great benefit we have of the EU research into which Norwegian research communities are involved. One last comment to that is that the amount of the return depends, of course, on the size of the fund. So here it's also an important piece of work to do, not least for me and for the Government, to get into the goal of that particular question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e736	I'm glad to hear that the Council of State determines that the 3 pst. target now applies. Then I also assume that this is what is going to happen in the future, and that it is the signal that is going to be sent out. There is no doubt that the signals that are now being sent are very unwieldy and very difficult to interpret for the sector, but also for business. It can't be seen that the government is providing any special relief to the business community. You cut in SkattenFUNN, and you cut into some other schemes that make business research. Nor does it appear that the State has intended to meet its share of the objective. Much of the problem of using the research fund's returns, as the government is doing now, is that the government doesn't want to find fresh money for research. One can simply use an ever-increasing return to finance current expenditure. My follow-up question is then: will the Council of State send out this signal to industry that it can also be expected that schemes such as SkattenFUNN now remain untouched or at best improved so that business can be enabled to achieve its share of the objective?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e743	I attended a very important conference organised by the NHO on yesterday, where one of the most important topics was cooperation between state and business on research. I also used that day to stress that it is my ambition to get business to join the team. If not, at least we don't reach the 3 pst. In order to do that, the state must also show will. I mean, we've done it. Although we are a bit away from that goal, we have actually increased the research effort from 2007 to 2008 by NOK 1.2 billion, and there has been a significant increase in efforts in the years this government has spent. So it's done, in my opinion, enough to give a signal to business that here we need to go together. I am concerned that we are able to get to that fission layer in the best possible way, with good cooperation conditions and a good cooperation climate between state and business.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e748	The President: there will be follow-up questions - first Anders Anundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e751	I can't wait to notice that I think we have a research minister who is a little bit more ambitious than the government she represents, and that's a good starting point. Nevertheless, her colleagues in the State Council and not least the head of government have gone around complaining about the lack of research efforts in the industry. Now we hear that the Council of State recognizes that the state is also lagging behind, and the latest calculations show that in order to achieve the public objective, we need to raise NOK 8 billion in the 2008 budget. Other estimates show that we have now fallen further in the share of GDP, which is now below 1.5 pst. This is very worrying, and the uncertainty created by various signals from the Government at all times, of course, also affects academic environments in a negative way. Per Brandtzäg, who also quoted the main questioner, has an article in Dagbladet 27 November 2007, where he writes: ‘While the discussion is about percentages and broken promises, more and more Norwegian researchers in temporary positions are losing faith in academic careers.’ Does the Council of State not see that there is a danger of recruitment to the research profession in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e766	No, I don't really see that father. I think these are good opportunities for researchers in the future. We will shortly be submitting a communication on recruitment, where this will be discussed in more detail. But what I see as a danger is that in this little-- let's say-- the heated debate on targets and percentages forgets what is actually being done. This does not mean that I do not take the objectives into account, but I would like to stress, both to the representative here and elsewhere, that we are making a great deal of effort. There is a lot of good research done in Norway, and we have increased the research framework from last year to this year by 1.2 billion kroner, and that is not petty.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e771	Odd Einar Doorroom - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e774	If research is to succeed, a strategic space for action is needed. Such a space of action is needed to succeed in terms of energy, climate, new materials and biotechnology. In the view of the Left, there are three heavy elements to ensure what is a strategic space of action: predictability and degrees of freedom. First of all, it's a research fund where the returns can be used for big stakes, unlike now, where they are tied up. Secondly, basic appropriations for universities and higher education are sufficient, and not the current situation. Thirdly, there is the willingness to try out multiannual budgets in important areas of research. Is the Council willing to assess these elements and use these elements as part of a strategic space for action in future Norwegian research?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e783	I can actually answer yes to that question. I evaluate these elements all the time. All three elements to which the representative Dørum refers are important elements of the assessment we are now making in order to strengthen and increase research. This is the case with giving freedom of action. We see the problem of having a long-term perspective in research towards a short-term government budget cycle of one year, and we are very concerned about getting the strength of taking some important strategic action. So yes-- the elements mentioned here are part of my assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e788	The oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e793	The President will inform the representatives that there are currently no changes to the list of questions drawn up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e799	I have a question for the Minister of Finance. Let me also take the opportunity to wish her a really good new year. The question is as follows: ‘Part-time workers do not receive a relative reduction in the base deduction in relation to the number of travel days by standard distance deduction from labour income. This means, in practice, that part-time workers, who also have lower annual incomes, must themselves bear a higher proportion of travel expenses to and from work than those in full-time employment. Does the Council of State consider this to be a discrimination against this group of workers on whom there is reason to consider?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e810	I would like to start by wishing both the President and the representative Fleet a good new year. We have weekly meetings in Stortinget on different questions, for example. tax. The right to deduct expenses for travelling between home and place of work is governed by the Tax Act § 6-44. The deduction is granted in general income and is limited to that part of the amount exceeding NOK 12800. The lower limit was adjusted from DKK 9200 to DKK 12800 with effect from the income year 2005, on a proposal from the Government of Bondevik II. Later, the lower limit has remained nominally unchanged, which actually implies an extended right of deduction. So our government has done a careful relief on this. The lower limit amount means that the deduction of such costs of a lower and medium size is deducted so that the deduction is granted to persons with more significant travel costs. The absence of a direct deduction of lower and medium travel costs must also be seen in the context of the structure of the rate of employee income and the amount of standardised deductions in relation to such income, mainly the significant minimum deduction. It is appropriate to avoid individual settlement for small and medium-cost travel, and also for individual taxpayers such regulatory arrangements mean simplifications. Among other things, this contributes to the smooth implementation of the pre-filled declaration system. The simplification gains inherent in the current scheme would be significantly reduced if the lower travel deduction limit were linked to more individual assessments of individual positions, etc. Moreover, the scale of the deduction only related to job breaks could appear unreasonable. In this context, it is pointed out that one such as is employed in a 70 pst. the position could have the same number of work trips as one employed in a 100 pst. job, only with shorter working days, and thus as much travel expenses as one who has a full job. Similarly, one who is employed in a 100 pst. could have fewer work trips during a week than one who is employed at a lower rate of employment, e.g. in occupations where one has tour schedules, night shifts etc. In principle, consistency should also ensure that people with more than full-time job breaks should have a higher limit than the normal limit for full-time jobs. A differentiation of the lower limit on the amount of such lines would appear to be bureaucratic and resource-intensive both for each tax payer and for the Equation Rate. Among other things, such a solution would trigger a non-negligible need for control. The solution will also not guarantee more reasonable results than that resulting from current legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e826	I understand that the finance minister and her staff have used the days of the New Year well to problematize what would be the difficulties of this. I also see that if you want to go into each and every tax payer. But it's a fact that this is perceived as unfair by a lot of people who have these kinds of jobs. Without having gone into it very carefully, it is my opinion that by e.g. operating with some different deductions for part-time workers -- it's clear you don't want to hit each tax payer exactly -- you might get to a slightly greater justice, which I think would be perceived as positive, and which might also stimulate work -- which is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e831	I think the main problem here is not necessarily that the travel expenses of a part-time worker can be very different from the travel expenses of a full-time worker. If you, for example, Work half a day and have travel expenses up and down every day, it is not the employment rate that determines, but the number of days actually worked, and the number of days you actually have travel expenses. That's why it's very demanding to be able to get into a system that would in any case be perceived as fair. For what the fleet representative describes, a system is based on a particular way of working part-time, e.g.: to work other people every day. Then it's much more reasonable to look at the limits that actually apply to travel expenses. I do not see that the representative Fleet has any suggestions on how this could be done that would be seen as fair by everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e838	No, I don't have any exact suggestions for that. But what was really on my question was if maybe the council had good suggestions for that. She has not, and I note that we have started this year almost as we have ended, at least in some cases in the last year, that what involves tax relief meets a relatively strong opposition from the Council of State. In this area, I'm pretty sure that a lot of people would think of it as positive if you at least went in and looked at this a little bit. Because it's a problem that very many people work part-time. Not least the state council and her party have very often pointed this out. As I said, there was little positive in this, and the feedback to all the quite many people who have come to me is that this way of achieving tax relief is at least not going to be given by the current Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e847	In fiscal policy, I think it is important to choose instruments based on what you want to achieve. If you want to obtain tax relief for part-time workers, there are many other, more effective ways to implement it, for example. by facilitating the taxation of the lower revenues. It would thus relate to what part-time workers have in labour income, and regardless of what they have in work travel, because part-time workers can organise their working hours in very different ways. A part-time worker may have the same travel costs as a full-time worker. I'm trying to harness myself to take seriously all the challenges of the representative Fleet, because it can be small and big tax cases that can seem either unreasonable or irritating or unfair. But it is not always the instruments proposed by the fleet that are the most effective in relation to what is the problem for this group. I think it is much more effective - and we also know that in relation to influencing the supply of work, for example. - if the effort is directed towards redistribution, which is that if tax relief is to be granted, it is to be given to them with the lowest income. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e854	The number is out.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e860	I have allowed myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Oil and Energy: ‘8. In December 2007, the media noted that Enova continued to have unused millions in the 2007 budget in support of energy saving and environmentally friendly energy conversion. Nevertheless, persons who have applied for support from Enova for conversion from oil-fire to air-to-water heat pump in private homes still experience that they have not been evaluated for their application. Can the Council of States promise that all applications that satisfy the requirements for support may be granted by the available means Enova still has at its disposal?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e869	The household electricity saving grant scheme was launched at the end of August 2006. Enova was assigned to manage the scheme. The scheme is not financed by the Energy Fund, but by a separate grant from the State budget of 71 million. kr. So far, Enova has received over 20,500 applications. As of 1 December, 4400 households have received support after reporting that measures have been implemented. 4 600 households have chosen not to implement measures after receiving an aid commitment. The background for many households now waiting to receive support is that Enova cannot provide funds beyond the 71 million threshold. kr. Since the start-up of the scheme, the overall framework has always been made available through support and disbursed funds commitments. For this scheme, as for other similar schemes, a relatively high proportion of households receiving aid do not choose to use the commitment. When an undertaking may have a duration of up to eight months, it will take time for Enova to roll out unused commitments. This also makes it take time for the entire 71 million frame. kr will be paid. As you know, the Heat Producers Association has complained about this grant scheme, and ESA has now opened a formal investigation into the case. I do not propose to make changes to the scheme until this matter is settled.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e878	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was at least informative. This illustrates the great, massive interest it has in moving from fossil warming in particular to renewables, and in helping to bring energy consumption down. With the role that today's government, like the previous one, has given Enova, and when it comes to the fact that there are still unused funds in December, I think it must be in everyone's interest to tighten up the treatment procedure and also the procedure for the applicants, which is so massive, as the Council of State illustrates here. Will the Council of State ensure that Enova is contacted so that the proceedings can take place more quickly and in a more public-friendly manner?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e885	I have no doubt that the representative Kristiansen and I have identical objectives in this matter. Here a scheme has been created to facilitate energy saving. There is something we should have high ambitions about in Norway in the future, and it is right, as the representative says, that the large amount of applications is an expression of the great interest in this. That's very good. I think that heat pumps are going to be an increasingly important part of the energy supply, and we also think we can attribute that transition to the fact that we are now starting to have a flare of household consumption. That's good. In making adjustments to the scheme itself, Enova follows the administrative regime set up. It is problematic to make changes to it now, among other things. because the ESA has opened a formal investigation into the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e892	I think it might make sense, when you look forward, to carry out a thorough review of this administrative regime, because the result is, in line with the Council of State's response, that many people choose to jump off. It takes too much time to process, applicants don't get answers, etc., and that doesn't give the effect, energy gain, that we all want here from this room. At the same time, I just want to point out that the Soria Moria Declaration refers to the desire to introduce a wrecker on oil boilers that are replaced into boilers that are based on renewable heat. In this area, at least before Christmas, information was provided that this scheme is not yet in place. It merely illustrates that throughout this renewable area there is every reason to review the process time and the follow-up that the tens of thousands of applicants feel they are getting from their own apparatus.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e897	With regard to the grant scheme to which the question relates, it is now a major challenge that ESA has launched a formal investigation of the case based on a complaint from the Heat Producers Association. There is a vivid illustration of how demanding it is to find schemes that can work. I then understand that the representative Kristiansen is excited about that scheme, and I hope that we will also receive support in the further work on this matter vis-à-vis ESA to ensure that we can also have this kind of arrangements for the future. Then I'm always ready to look at how we can manage arrangements in an appropriate way. Enova has to deal with the regulations that apply at all times. I am concerned that we should find smooth arrangements. The experience we now have with these types of schemes is that despite the fact that quite a few people get what they're applying for, they don't choose to use the scheme, and it's possible we can find solutions to how we're going to take that into account in the future. So I'm meeting the problem that the representative is dealing with, with positive goodwill, in the sense that I think we're going to think through how we can do this better.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e907	‘In the evening post on 2 January 2008, the Council of State states that Norway will not save the world by shutting down our oil production, as production is among the purest in the world. The alternative will be more polluting oil production, for example from oil sands, the Council of State states. StatoilHydro has invested DKK 10 billion in the oil sand project in Alberta west of Canada. What are the consequences of Council opinions on oil sand production for StatoilHydro?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e914	The State shall be a good and demanding owner, also in StatoilHydro. This means, among other things: that we are committed to complying with the Share Act and with the Government's own main principles of good ownership. These we have presented to Stortinget in St.meld. No 13 for 2006-2007, An active and long-term ownership. This suggests that the state as a large owner does not normally intervene in individual cases. StatoilHydro's decision to take over the oil sands business in Canada was a commercial decision of the company's board of directors, which is the body responsible for this type of decision. It is important that this role-sharing is respected and implemented in practice. The board of directors and other governing bodies of a company shall have and take responsibility and shall be assessed and judged on an ex-post basis in accordance with the manner in which they have fulfilled their duties. It is also important to remember that Canada is an OECD country with well-developed national environmental legislation. This means that companies operating there are subject to sea-going requirements, as is the case with Norwegian laws and regulations for companies operating there. StatoilHydro's strategy focuses on ensuring sound activities that protect people, the environment, society and assets. The company also states that it will use natural resources efficiently and deliver energy that supports sustainable development. The Norwegian petroleum industry has been subject to strict environmental and societal requirements in Norway. This competence can help to give the company new opportunities internationally. This may prove particularly relevant in the case of the company’s extraction of oil sands in Canada. The involvement of the company in the extraction of oil sands is a challenge, but it also offers opportunities beyond purely commercial ones. The technology employed there is still at a relatively early stage of development and the potential for environmental improvement and overall efficiency is expected to be high. My statement in the evening post was of a general nature and not specifically addressed to StatoilHydro. As mentioned above, the management and management of the company is responsible for the decision to purchase into Canadian oil sands. My statement in the Evening Post therefore does not have any bearing on the investment decision made by the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e929	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State. I find that the concerns of the Council of State in relation to oil sand production will have no impact on the 62.5 pst. that the State owns in StatoilHydro. The Council of State appointed itself as Minister of Climate Change, becoming Minister of Oil and Energy. That's great, because we need good climate ministers, and we need good environmental protection ministers with great impact. At the same time, the Council of State said in the interview on 2 January in the evening post that it is important that we continue our oil and gas production based on a sense of solidarity, in solidarity with those who do not have energy. We know that energy is important to get out of poverty, there's no doubt about it, but the question is what type of energy? My question to the Council of State is whether she sees the relationship between oil and gas production and the climate challenges facing the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e938	It would have been very alarming if I had not seen that connection. Yes, there is no doubt about it: oil and gas account for a major weight of emissions in the world. That is why, as I have made clear, it is an objective that we should also get the emissions from the Norwegian base further down. These included: I put the most emphasis on it when we got a little uplifting report on Friday about electrification of the socket. We definitely do not give up our ambition to get the emissions further down on the Norwegian base. Now we have to look for tools that go beyond electrification. We should not reject electrification, but we must also look for other instruments. Our goal must be to move rapidly from the fossil age to the renewable age. I wish that transition could go faster than it does today, but we have to rely on consuming fossil energy for a good decade to come. If we were not to extract fossil energy in the future, it would in practice be impossible for poor people in the poor part of the world to get out of poverty, because it would take energy to raise their standard of living. I wish we could have more based on renewable energy faster. We have to do everything we can to speed up the development of renewable energy, but for many years to come, poor people will depend on oil, gas and coal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e949	The council said in its main response to me that the state should be a good and demanding owner in relation to StatoilHydro. In the configuration of the Stortinget on StatoilHydro's merger, a joint committee says that StatoilHydro needs to focus on becoming a new renewable energy company. This was an important comment from the Committee and in the work done there. The council also said in the answer to me that they would not intervene in individual matters. My challenge to the Council of State is then: how will the Council of State and the Government use its great power of ownership on a large matter - actually maybe a turn of it like StatoilHydro per. Today, to follow the decision of the Storting that StatoilHydro will in the future become the major dominant energy company? How will the Council of State use its power to get the company there?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e956	The question is not very clear, but we want to exercise our ownership in such a way that we have general discussions with the company in a ownership dialogue, with the expectations of follow-up that are said to be in it. Then we must also take into account that there are several owners in the company, but the state is a dominant owner, and ergo is ownership dialogue very important. In the field of renewable energy, we see a gradual increase in the investment in StatoilHydro. It has declared the full agreement of the State and the Government. It's one of the areas that we want to have wide and intense dialogue with StatoilHydro about the future. One of the fields where StatoilHydro now chooses to spend more money and resources is the investment in marine wind turbines. It's an example of an area where the government is excited about.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e968	Let me first take the opportunity to wish the Foreign Minister and his entire staff a really good new year. I look forward to cooperation in 2008. The first question from me in the new year is as follows: ‘In NRK 7 November 2007, Secretary of State Raymond Johansen stressed that the Western Sahara was annexed by Morocco, but at the same time claimed that it was wrong to call the Western Sahara occupied ‘since the status of the area has not yet been clarified’. As several UN Resolutions, as well as opinions of both former Norwegian governments, including Bondevik II, from SV and Ap, stresses that the Western Sahara is occupied, I will ask for the following clarification: Why does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs choose to misjudge the fact that Western Sahara is illegally occupied by Morocco?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e979	I thank you for your New Year's greeting and wish the representative and President a year from me and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. As the representative of Vallersnes is well-known, Western Sahara is a controversial area in which negotiations are under way on the legal status of the parties to the United Nations. Norway does not wish to unilaterally influence or foreshadow the outcome of these negotiations. Therefore, the Government chooses to refer to this case complex as ‘the situation in Western Sahara’. This is in line with the wording used by the United Nations Security Council and the UN General Assembly, which we, among other things, consider. may see United Nations Security Council Resolution 1783 of 31 October 2007 and UN General Assembly Resolution 61/125 of 15 January 2007. The situation is complex and will not be resolved by entering into or interpreting legal concepts such as occupation or annihilation. First, Norway’s consistent line has been to support the United Nations Security Council’s requirement to allow for the conditions of self-determination without pre-empting the outcome of a referendum and, second, to emphasise clearly the need for respect for human rights in the region. I otherwise record that the question from the representative, Vallersnes, which is important, is almost exactly the same as the written question I received from the representative, Trine Skei Grande, and I then refer to my written answer to this question, Question No. 181 for 2007-2008, answered on 15 November 2007, and to Question No 181 for 2007-2008, answered on 15 November 2007. 960 for 2006-2007, answered by me on 2 May 2007.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e990	I thank you for your answer. Now it is that Norway is present in the region and will well have increased presence in the region also through Algeria. The question is whether it will result in increased focus on Western Sahara from the Norwegian side, if any, if one can predict a more active role from our side in the process between the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e997	I think the observation is correct. Now, when Norway receives an embassy and presence in Algeria, it gives us an increased knowledge and access to understanding of this conflict from that angle. We are, as you know, already in Morocco, and we have also been committed for a long time to following this process in the United Nations. Last year we made a special effort in the humanitarian field to form an even better picture of the humanitarian situation, also to see how Norway can set up humanitarian aid to help refugees and vulnerable populations in Western Sahara. I would also like to say that we support the efforts of the United Nations to come up with agreed solutions. It is true that last autumn, perhaps, there was a little light in Algeria and Morocco agreeing on the UN resolution on this. It's a contrast to what it's been before. Of course, if Norway can help this development to move in the right direction, we will do our best to do so, as in other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e1004	I thank you for the additional response, and finally I would like to ask if the Government for its part has a view on what a realistic but just solution could go in the direction of in this conflict. Now the Secretary of State said something about what is emphasised in the United Nations, but has a view on this in the Government, and can the Minister of Foreign Affairs elaborate on whether one has an opinion about the way forward in order to reach such a solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e1009	I think I'll go back to the big question of solutions to the decolonization process in general in the world. But otherwise, it should be to ensure that it does so on the basis of the principle of self-determination, by expressing the will of the peoples of the territory. The question of Western Sahara has been dealt with by the UN General Assembly and the Security Council as a non-autonomous area in the light of, inter alia, the principles set out in Article 73 of the United Nations Charter, and it will be important from the Norwegian side for solutions to be found along these lines, as well as for continuous focus and pressure on those exercising power, for respect for human rights to be shown and for progress to be made in this direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e1020	I would like to ask the Minister of Defence the following questions: ‘The defence purchased 25 armored Iveco vehicles and several were ordered with delivery in the second half of 2008. But some of those we already have are at the workshop waiting for parts, some as long as from February 2007. The Council of State is pleased that new vehicles with a price tag of between 2 and 2.5 million. kroner are in the workshop instead of being in active service?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e1029	As Minister of Defence, I am very concerned that the security of our soldiers in Afghanistan should be ensured in the best possible way. Developments in recent years have shown that hostile elements are increasingly engaged in asymmetric warfare. Among other things, remote road bombs are used, and the number of suicide bombers is increasing. In order to increase the level of protection of our forces in Afghanistan as soon as possible, a forced acquisition of 25 Iveco armoured vehicles was carried out in winter 2006/2007. 16 of these were quickly sent to Afghanistan. The others remained in Norway for training and technical examinations. Unfortunately, several of the supplied vehicles have had technical problems. It is therefore correct that the representative, Mr Bredvold, refers to the fact that some vehicles have periodically been at the workshop awaiting parts and repairs. It is not correct that new vehicles have been in the workshop since February 2007, but one vehicle was in the workshop until November 2007 due to cracks in the armoured front glass. This has now been corrected. I would like to remind you that an important criterion in the acquisition of the 25 vehicles was that they had to be delivered quickly because of a worsening threat situation. Although we have had technical problems with the vehicles, this forced acquisition has given us more armoured vehicles for our forces in Afghanistan. Of course, it is not satisfactory that vehicles are missing in delivery. However, it is not uncommon for new materials to have childhood diseases until sufficient experience of maintenance and spare parts is gained. The defence logistics organisation is working purposefully to keep as many vehicles in operation as possible as possible. It's demanding. As I have been informed, we still succeed better now than when the vehicles were new. As of today, 20 out of 25 vehicles are operational. Although there have been problems with the vehicles, I would like to stress that the goal of purchasing vehicles quickly in order to improve the safety of our crews has been achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e1048	I thank the Council of State for the answer. At the same time, I wish the Council of State and her employees a good new year, and I will also be allowed to congratulate the Council of State on the positive thing that happened at Bæria. We had common goals, and it looks like we're succeeding there. So I'm very happy about that. Back to the question. I've been told that of course this is military-specific material, and when you're going to have a part from Italy to Iveco vehicles, it has to be approved on a case-by-case basis for customs clearance. Then it seems that things don't happen as smoothly as they could have done. Then my question is: this has been an urgent purchase. Have we been too quick, so that we have not received the result we want, and that training and materials have not been well enough negotiated? So now we have the situation at 20 pst. Of the vehicles that we bought a few months ago, to put it like that, are non-operative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e1057	Let me first give you the New Year's greeting and thank you for it. When it comes to buying new material, it is clear that you want a good run-in period and a good test period. Now, of the 25 vehicles we bought, we immediately sent 16 to Afghanistan because the security situation had deteriorated. We kept nine in Norway in order to be able to use them for training, training and, of course, also to become familiar with these vehicles technically. I want to say that we achieved what we wanted. We were able to achieve a higher level of preparedness and improved safety for the 16 vehicles in Afghanistan. It's been necessary. But it's clear, you should always want to have better time in a drive-in phase. I would nevertheless say that it was a correct assessment. We will now also have a forced delivery of additional vehicles in order to have better and greater flexibility in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e1064	I thank the Council of State once again for the answer and I agree with what she says. When we talk about this as a matter of urgency, in response to a previous question, I have been promised that we will buy more vehicles, and that it will happen as soon as possible. Then it's natural to ask, how far has that process come? I believe that delivery in the second half of 2008 is not fast enough. I expect something to come up earlier, early in the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e1071	As I have informed you before, we have 35 vehicles that have been ordered as a new fast purchase by entering the production lines of other countries, which are delivered by the end of May. The other vehicles ordered by the Defence will be delivered at the end of this year. We'd like everything to be delivered immediately, but we're one of many countries that's out to get this type of armored vehicle. That's why we also have to figure out that we have to wait in line for a while, but we're doing everything we can to get the vehicles as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e1081	I have the following questions for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade: ‘Norwegian Forest has had challenges in recent years related to demanding market conditions and weak performance. In Today's Business January 3rd, an investor group will launch, among others. Ap-member Ove Gusevik, a model where the state enters as owner. The State has recently purchased shares in Aker Holding. Is it relevant for the Government to assess state purchases to ensure Norwegian jobs and a long-term public ownership of Norwegian timber processing?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e1090	Let me first underline the following: The fundamental economic interests of the State indicate that assessments of tangible changes in the state's holdings in companies are often not available in advance. This applies in particular to listed companies in which the shares are traded continuously in the market, but also in other transactions in which concrete knowledge of the position of the State may affect the conditions with negative effect on the State or the company. The commercial interests of other parties may also be taken into account in order to ensure that preparations are carried out in a confidential manner within the framework set by the relevant laws and regulations. The Government must work here to find solutions within the powers granted by the Storting or, where appropriate, negotiate agreements subject to the approval of the Storting. So to the specific question from the representative Hansen: Norwegian Forest is a central player in the Norwegian woodworking industry and an important employer in several communities. In the last year, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has had several contacts with key actors in Norwegian Forest to be briefed on the situation of the company and its activities in Norway. Contacts include: included management, the board of the company and representatives of forest owners and employees. I got the impression through these contacts that the main challenge in the company is not on the owner's side, but that there are questions about finding a way to adapt the company's operations to market conditions. It says, as far as I can see, central to the company's work. In the contact we have had, there has been no wish from today's owners that the state should enter the owner's side of the Norwegian Forest. We have also not dealt with requests from any investors about it. However, Hansen has understood correctly, that the Government is committed to contributing to the development of Norwegian business through a long-term and stable ownership of commercial premises. The government does not aim to distort private capital, but to find a good interaction between state and private capital where appropriate. This is done, among other things: through the Social Security Fund, or the State pension fund - Inland, investments in Norwegian enterprises and through the direct state ownership, but also in the interaction between private and state capital established through, inter alia, the activities of Innovation Norway, SIVA and Argentum Fund investments, through different regional investment funds and subsequently through a new direct investment fund that will be part of Innovation Norway. The Government's work is based on finding practical forms of interaction between private and public capital that provide good commercial solutions in combination with long-term and stable ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e1107	I would like to thank you for your answer. I understand, of course, that the Council of State cannot provide market-sensitive information in the Storting in this way, as we stand here now. But what is clear from today's business is that the investor lawyer Spetalen, Stordalen and working party member Ove Gusevik in negotiations with the forest owners launched a state purchase as an alternative, which Gusevik also argues for directly in the article. This is quite eye-catching. This is about quite experienced investors who probably also have advisers with them. The episode confirms that the Government has a ownership policy that appears to be quite unpredictable and misguided both in relation to owners, in relation to companies and in relation to the stock market. The problem is that the Minister of Industry neither today nor in the case of Aker Holding provides some clear principles for when it is relevant for the State to buy up in listed companies. I think that's what we need. So I ask again, what criteria does the State use when implementing a buying-in policy in new companies on the stock exchange?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e1116	As I stated, there are several forms of state ownership. Therefore, the assessments underlying the different investments will also vary. The Social Security Fund, i.e. the State pension fund - Inland, is an investment of a more financial nature - and there is no underlying strategy on the part of the state that owns it. Then there will be a new fund under Innovation Norway, which has as a clear strategy to help develop particularly newly established enterprises with high potential, with a ownership of up to 49 p.p., i.e. to stimulate private ownership. That is a strategy. With regard to the Aker Kværner case, which I know the representative is very concerned about, the strategic approach is obvious: a large holding company was for sale, and we saw it as an industrial responsibility to contribute to two things. One is a long-term ownership, where we ensure that development, head office functions, etc. is based on Norway. In addition to that, we achieve good industrial cooperation with large Swedish industrial environments. But the starting point for the different types of state ownership is therefore different from ownership to ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e1125	This is, of course, about direct investment in individual companies under the direction of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade. What the government did in connection with the Aker Holding situation was go into a new company and surprisingly bought up in a listed company where the state has no direct ownership. It opens up a wide range of similar opportunities in business, where the situation, as the Council of State just said, is that a large holding is available for sale. You could, for example: asks whether the Government will consider purchasing into the company Fast, which was purchased by Microsoft yesterday, and whether it did. could be relevant to the Government to purchase into the Norwegian Forest, if the forest owners were also interested in it. This means that many situations may arise where it is relevant or desirable for some investors that the State should either relieve them or take the strategic position. We haven't discussed this in Stortinget in connection with the ownership announcement - how the state will act to address new business situations. That is why I am calling again for some kind of fundamental clarification from the Council of State of what are current situations in which the Government can go into.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e1132	I am aware that the representative wants to present this as a vague ownership policy. But the message of ownership, as the representative just mentioned, is a thorough document, which we should strategically deal with in terms of the ownership we have, and how much we want to own in the future. Let me just briefly stress that the investors involved, as I have also seen in the paper, have suggested that the state should enter as an owner, have never made contact with me or others in order to somehow agree to such a strategy - just so it is also mentioned here. So in the case of ownership in Aker Kværner: At a price equal to a fully analysed liquid share on the stock exchange, we have - despite the fact that the holding corresponds indirectly to 12 pst. of Aker Kværner by owning 30 pst. of 40 pst. - obtained a negative majority and ensured that head office functions and industrial development take place in Norway. Of course, that kind of thing needs to be handled on the basis of the current situation. But the industrial strategy behind the development of the technology environment in Norway - which can mean a lot for the future - remains in Norwegian hands, should be obvious.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e1144	With the President's permission, I have to wish the Council a good new year. This is the first question-taking exercise in a new year, and I look forward to many breakthroughs on important issues of transport in the coming year. ‘Publication of the groundwork for the new National Transport Plan 2010-2019 is deferred. The pedigree investigation by the Statens vägvesen and the core network investigation by the Railway Agency have been known for a long time. These documents point to investment needs of 230 billion, respectively. kr and 80-100 br. for the necessary upgrading of the main road network and the current network. What criteria will the Ministry of Transport use for dimensioning investments and underlying traffic growth in new National Transport Plan 2010-2019?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e1153	I would like to return the good wishes in a good new year, both to the representative Sortevik and the Stortinget. I also look forward to many reflection breaks and good discussions in this room. The national transport plan 2010-2019 shall be submitted to the Stortinget in December of this year, as planned. NTP shall provide the basis for the development of the transport sector in Norway during the period. It is important to lay out plans that provide us with an effective management tool and a good basis for follow-up in the annual budget proposals. The government, as the first government, has followed up the framework of the NTP for road and rail in the budgets for 2007 and 2008. The transport networks' preparatory work on the new NTP for the period 2010-2019 was started in January 2006 on the basis of guidelines from the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs and the Ministry of Transport. As part of this work, transport modes have separately made core network distributions with a longer time perspective and without concrete economic priorities. I've been doing the public for the first time, and they've been known since the fall of 2006. Such distributions are important for the direction of long-term planning and are at the same time part of the basis for the next NTP. The guidelines for transport budgets work on a technical basis for NTP 2010-2019 ask the authorities to do their best during this period to ensure that resources are used within a calculational economic framework. This frame was set at 10 times the 2007 budget proposal, with margin estimates within +/- 20 pst. I receive this recommendation as part of the basic material on 17 January. The proposal from the etats will be public and will provide the basis for a wide-ranging discussion in society. It will include: must be submitted to the counties and major cities for pronunciation. On the basis of its proposals and its further management, the Government will present the NTP in December of this year. The final economic framework for the period and the investment we find room for within these frameworks will, of course, come back in that context. The representative of Sortevik also asks about the underlying traffic growth in NTP 2010-2019. It's important, among other things. for the dimensioning of installations and for the operation and maintenance of existing networks, that we use the best possible predictions for an uncertain future. I am busy doing a good professional job in this area as well. In the direction of transport modes, they are asked to draw up 'as much forecast as possible'. In consultation with the ETAs, the quality assurance and updating of drafts will also be carried out in time after their submissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e1168	Thanks for the answer. I hope, of course, that the timescale for the Ministry’s presentation of the NTP will last with December 2008. But the starting point for the question is that it is the basic work, which comes from the trade unions, which was notified late before Christmas. The basic work of the new national transport plan is, of course, the basis for the broad and comprehensive consultation, which will take place not least on a municipal basis. It is then important to clarify whether the professional views of the trade unions govern ambition and development frameworks, or whether the professional councils are subject to political governance in the ministry, which actually lays a lower framework than is necessary professionally in order to obtain a good future road and rail network.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e1175	When we made the run for the national transport plan, which of course the Government has also been in and discussed, the time of submission from January 2008 was. It's not a delay. At one point, the etats desired, and judged, that one should be ready to present it to the public in December -- I said at the time that if one was ready for it, we would try to get it before Christmas. Then we had a shift, a new road director, who has also had meaning for the time. However, it is important to note that there is no delay in relation to the timetable of the department, when this is now presented in January 2008. Of course, the professional recommendations given should be shared by the public, by the public, by the public and by the public. I did the root-net distribution public just so that one would see what kind of is the ideal world -- and then let's see, when Stortinget gets NTP in December, how close to the ideal world one comes within the responsible economic framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e1180	Full publicity and full transparency are very good -- otherwise this department has an improvement potential, if we look back a little bit. My question also concerns traffic growth. Both in the current transport plan and in previous transport plans it has been somewhat low. This includes, inter alia: that we are building new roads that are reasonably soon after opening are full of traffic and appear to be undersized. It was a look-up as late as yesterday about a road in the Trondheims area that actually seems to get much more traffic than what was calculated. The road network admits that it does not control the growth of traffic itself, but indicates that it is the Ministry of Finance that governs this. Will the Council of State in the next national transport plan, 2010-2019, take care of the important condition of traffic growth? Or is it still the way the Ministry of Finance decides?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e1187	Estimating and estimating traffic growth is a science that is not quite accurate. It is fully visible in the later national transport plans. Of course, it's also about economic activity and economic recessions that affect the growth of traffic in our society. When it's up to who has the power here, it's clear that it's the State Road Service's calculations that form the basis. But we have a system of KS1 and KS2 on the individual projects, which means that external consultants - when picked out of the Ministry of Finance - also make assessments that are added to the weight of traffic scheduling. But I am very busy that in the forthcoming National Transport Plan we will take the height of the traffic growth we are now seeing, and not underestimate it in the coming decade.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e1197	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Culture and the Church: ‘The PlayFair 2008 report ‘No medal for the Olympics on labour rights’ reveals serious violations of employee rights in 4 factories in China. The factories produce a licence for the IOC to Beijing-OL. Workers must work under harmful and dangerous conditions for more than 12 hours per day. day, 7 days a week, to half of the minimum wage in China. Child labour is also documented in at least one of the factories. What will the Council of State do to ensure that IOC-licensed goods are produced in line with basic labour standards?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e1206	The government is actively working to strengthen the rights of workers in the globalised economy. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has started work on this as a goal. As part of this initiative, the U.D. is cooperating with the International Labour Organisation (ILO) to contribute to the respect and enforcement of the ILO Convention on the Rights of Workers by all countries. In addition to increasing the aid allocation for the ILO by 75 pst. In the last two years, Norway has been working with selected countries of particular importance. China is, of course, one of these countries. For this reason, the Government decided to enter into special cooperation with the ILO Office in Beijing in order to assist the Chinese Ministry of Labour in the implementation and enforcement of ILO Convention No. 111 on combating discrimination in the workplace. This cooperation with the ILO and the Chinese authorities gives us the opportunity to contribute to the fight against discrimination at the workplace in China, but it also provides us with a platform for dialogue and cooperation to promote the rights of workers in China more generally. Workers’ rights form a central part of Norway’s human rights dialogue with China and of the Government’s new China strategy. Our starting point for this work is the core ILO Conventions. LO and NHO are key participants in the human rights dialogue. For a number of years, LO and NHO have worked closely with their Chinese sister organisations through the dialogue. Since 2006, LO, NHO and the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion have cooperated with the Chinese on tripartite work in the labour market. The project is based on the ILO Action Plan for decent work and seeks to promote dialogue on discrimination, negotiation and conflict resolution in Chinese labour. The government also supports the China Programme at the Norwegian Centre for Human Rights, which has been running projects with Chinese partners on professional rights for several years. It is the International Olympic Committee that owns the Olympics and decides who will arrange the Olympics, with their rights and obligations. Furthermore, it is the responsibility of the IOC to follow up with the OL organiser and ensure that the OL is properly arranged and in line with the Olympic spirit. Thus, the production of licensed OL products is primarily a relationship between the IOC, the local OL Organisation Committee and the Chinese authorities. However, as shown by the first part of my answer, the Government is making an effort to improve working conditions in China more generally. The government will continue its active work towards China in the field of human rights. The fact that China and Beijing have been awarded Olympic Games in 2008 has clearly contributed to an increased focus on the human rights situation in China, which in turn could help put pressure on Chinese human rights authorities in the post-OL era.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e1223	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I guess I'll find a little general. This Council of State is a Minister of Sports and has a special responsibility for follow-up to both the Olympic Committee and sport in general. I think it is commendable that the government has already made a decision on cooperation with the ILO office in Beijing in China. That state council didn't say anything about, was if you've started working with that cooperation. So it's natural to ask how far you've got in that work. We know that the IOC - and to the extent that the Norwegian IOC member Gerhard Heiberg - has expressed a positive willingness to follow up workers' rights in relation to the OL in general, by drawing up general guidelines on such rights, but also that they want to follow this up in relation to Beijing-OL. But general guidelines and statements are now one thing -- practice is another. So my question to the sports minister is, how does he actually want to follow up in front of the Olympics?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e1232	More detailed questions about tripartite cooperation between LO, NHO and the Government need to be addressed to the Minister of Labour and Inclusion. He's the one who's constitutionally responsible to Stortingen for that, and he has to answer those questions. But it's an important work, which of course is related to this question, because it gives us an opportunity and a platform and a forum to address that kind of question. As Minister of Sport, I have been in contact with the Norwegian Sports Association and the Olympic Committee. It is those who, through the IOC, own the OL arrangements and who are responsible, including through the IOC, for the contracts for licensed OL products concluded - or who may affect the local OL organisation responsible for them. I have been assured that this is addressed by both Heiberg, as an IOC member, through the European Olympic Committee and through the movement in other ways. I feel confident that these have exactly the same objectives as the representative Lånker and the undersigned have.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e1239	From the very beginning, the ideology of the Olympics has been that sport should support the development of a society of human dignity. The Olympic spirit is also about mutual understanding, friendship, solidarity and - not least - fair play. I assume that the Council of State agrees with this and joins in full. I have to ask what the council itself might think of doing in the future to keep the pressure up to the IOC, because I think that's what it's going to be about. You say it in very general terms, but you can't prove that you've intervened especially in connection with this. One thing is that it's the IOC that owns the OL -- and that stands for the event and is responsible -- but as an important participant nation, we also have a responsibility to point out the breaches that have already taken place, and to try to stop this in front of the OL as far as possible, so that this time too OL becomes an OL in the pact with the Olympic spirit.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e1249	The fact that the representative Lånke addresses this in the Questionnaire is one of the ways to put the search light on this matter. That is important, and the representative should have all the credit for it. It's -- as the representative says -- the IOC that owns the OL, and it's the local OL that accounts for the local products. But just by Beijing and China arranging the Olympics, we have an excellent opportunity to put extra pressure on this case. In the first round, it will be the Norwegian Sports Association and the Olympic Committee that deal with this through their bodies and cooperation systems - something they have assured me that they will. To the extent that they want backing from me as a sports minister or from the Government, of course, we should contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e1259	First, since there has been a tradition in this questioning process, I would also like to wish you a good new year. There'll certainly be a lot of questions about health -- we agree on that. So to the question: ‘The Board of Ullevål University Hospital adopted a 2008 savings package of nearly 300 million on 19 December 2007. kr. The decision also states that the board ‘supports, in principle, measures where patient provision is affected, but where alternative offers are available in the region’. One of the measures is the closure of the outpatient clinic in the medical department. The board also wants the Municipality of Oslo to finance this important offer to the population. Does the Council agree that the municipality should now finance offers for which Ullevål is responsible?»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e1270	I would also like to take the opportunity to wish a good new year. As the Storting is aware, in the year we are in the process of doing so, several health businesses have significant migration challenges in order to achieve an economic balance. For Ullevål University Hospitals, this is a conversion challenge of about 300 million. kr, as pointed out by the representative Syversen. In such processes, very many proposals will always be made. Some of the proposals will involve changes in patient provision - but not necessarily negative changes. This could be done, for example, by: is that a change in the organisation or division of tasks of an offer. Health South-East states that the injury department of the Medical Service in Oslo is a special offer to the population in this part of the country. It serves as a complement to the municipal medical service and to the first line service. Ullevål University Hospitals are familiar with specialists who can get to them quickly to ensure the necessary assistance in the event of damage. At the same time, the hospital relieves the municipality's first line service. The other hospitals in the area have also known me for the benefit of this offer, as they receive a smaller amount of immediate help. Harm care is provided by general practitioners and medical practitioners in line with the usual division of labour between primary and specialist health services. Patients are passed on to hospital or outpatient clinic when needed. The collaboration between the injury department of Oslo Medical Care and Ullevål University Hospital makes Oslo’s population have a particularly good offer in the area of harm treatment. Health South-East has informed me that the Board of Ullevål University Hospital has not finished assessing the impact of the measures contained in the preliminary draft budget for 2008. That also applies to the proposal on the damage department of the Oslo Medical Watch. It is also announced that they are in dialogue with the Municipality of Oslo on this matter. Health South-East reports to me that they see it as a priority task to continue this interaction action that the damage department of Oslo medical care provides the people of the capital area. The offer at the injury department of the Medical Service in Oslo is a good example of how interaction measures benefit the population. I understand that there may be demanding processes related to negotiations on organisation and cost sharing of this type of interaction action. Not least, budgetary processes are always involved. That's why we're trying to put stones in the work to support interaction, which is crucial to give the population the best possible offer, between service levels. Last summer I therefore signed a framework agreement on interaction between the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Municipal Councils. Last year, incentives were granted - 50 million. kr - for various interaction measures and for local hospitals. Having said that, I have to say that it is only the actors who can solve the interaction challenges in the context of local cooperation agreements and through local processes. I am therefore pleased that Health South-East sees it as a priority task to continue this special offer at the Medical Service, while stressing that the actors involved must take their share of the financial responsibility for this good offer to the people. I would like to point out that the responsible actors need time to review the opportunities now available to address the migration challenge they face. We have a shared responsibility to establish a climate that allows good processes to be carried out locally, so that health businesses and municipalities can find the best solutions within the financial framework they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e1289	The answer given by the Council of State suggests that she actually prefers to see the offer maintained as it is today, for as many interaction effects as you get from outpatient clinics on the Lawyer Act, you probably have to look for a long time. At the same time, the board of Ullevål University Hospital has said that they are in principle prepared to embark on a saving that could lead to the closure of today's medical watch system in this area and that will prevent interaction. My question is: what does the Council of State think might be the reason why the Board of Directors chooses such an important function when it comes to cutting it in the budgets for 2008?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e1296	I cannot comment on all the details of what is now going on. But it is a well-known matter that, in the case of budgetary processes, there are very many proposals that come to the table, and not everyone who comes to reality when it comes to the final decisions. It's quite right, as the representative Syversen says, that this special offer at the Medical Service in Oslo is a very good example of interaction for the benefit of patients in this part of the country. I just want to repeat that the board of Ullevål University Hospital has not made its decisions. Health South-East has also communicated to me that they see it as a priority task to continue this special and - I want to add - good offer that is at the Medical Service in Oslo, so there is a process going on around this. Now you have to have time to go through that process, but I think the goal is clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e1303	If you look at this from the outside -- almost everyone who is not directly involved as a board member or in the administration of the hospital in question does -- this becomes a very strange picture. Firstly, it is said that hospitals in 2008 will have more money at their disposal than ever. So, when individual companies are going to make budgets for next year, that is for 2008, it means more proposals on what everyone thinks is cut. It's called conversion, but it's actually cut, which means weaker offers to the city's population. I get to raise the question to a basic level: does the Council of State see that it becomes difficult to communicate to the city's population that health services are improved, when the alarm clocks go every time a budget is set up?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e1310	With regard to the matter in question raised by the representative Syversen, it is ‘in good order’ - let me put it that way. Everything points to that. It is that hospitals, through what the Storting has decided, have never had as much money at their disposal as they now have - almost NOK 85 billion. This means that people both in this part of the country and in the country have to expect better health care. So there's something about the technique in terms of cut or not cut. Because what happens is that all hospitals get more money, but not everyone gets as much growth as they expected. It's a completely different debate. I've been in politics at national level for almost 20 years, working a lot with hospitals for many years, and at some times of the year there are very many suggestions that hover in the air, especially around Christmas. I think one should wait for the final decisions before one comes with the final judgment, and basically it's going really well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e1324	First of all, Happy New Year! I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Renewal and Administration: ‘One of the clearest promises of the Soria Moria Declaration is broadband to all by 2007. Akershu County Council was refused an application for state aid for broadband development in the autumn. This means that 8,000 households now have no fixed broadband coverage in the county. Now, the Council of State will bring down the successful Høykom system, introduced by the Bondevik I government, which has stimulated the development of broadband. How and when will the Council of State ensure full broadband coverage for Akershus?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e1335	Let me first begin by healthing good new year back, both to the representative Borghild Tenden and to the president. So I'd like to say that the government has achieved good results in the broadband sector. According to the last list from Teleplan, we have reached 99 pst. when we've spent the money we promised in 2007. The reason why the government has allowed 355 million kr only in 2007 - in addition, we had a big promise in 2006 - that we saw that the market alone will not solve the broadband challenge, even if the market has taken the lead. And that's good. So we've spent 355 million. kr - or, they're about to be used up. Some projects started late, and of course we have been totally dependent on municipal and county contributions, but not least the market players have also been involved in the efforts it has been to come up as well as we are now. Even if we're close to the goal of full broadband coverage, we see, as the representative is about, that unfortunately we're not 100 pst. in target. It shall apply, inter alia, to: Akershus, where there are still at the base of 10,000 households - or 8 000, as the representative says - which cannot be fixed. But that doesn't mean they don't have another possibility; they have the potential for mobile broadband. What has happened in the last year is that it has been a large-scale expansion of mobile broadband, which today can provide capacities that are well within the definition of broadband provided by the Stortinge in 2004 under the previous government. These developments are going very fast. We see that we have good upload capacities and download capacities, so that when we take that offer, we talk about far fewer households than the 8,000 that don't have access at all. We're talking about far, far less. What we've done is we're going to spend 180 million. kr in broadband in 2008 in order to achieve full coverage. We're going to order a new status report to see how large the residual market is. Then we have to figure out how we can best reach the residual market, and we will do that in the first half of 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e1348	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was as expected. According to Høkom, Akershu County was assessed as eligible for state aid for broadband development. Full broadband expansion was a clear election vow in the 2005 election campaign from several government parties, and not least in the Soria Moria declaration. Does the Council of State not see that more voters in Akershus feel that this is a violation of the promises of the Council of State and of this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e1355	What I think the voters in Akershus, as in the rest of the country, see, is that we've spent a tremendous amount of money on broadband -- unlike the party of the representative, Left, which was the only party in the Storting that last year actually cut the broadband loop by 25 pst. So when it's true to have an engagement to achieve your own goals, at least we've put the money on the table. Then I want to say that unfortunately we are not quite in the goal at New Year's, as we had hoped. It has to do with both having a capacity problem in order to get the project started, and that we did not have enough money in the Høkom scheme to e.g.. could come Akershus' application to the meeting. Once again, I want to draw a line that goes on a fixed axis. A good part - most of the 8,000 households that the representative Borghild Tenden picks up - has a mobile broadband offer, and I want to encourage everyone to make use of the existing ones, so that one comes online and has a good network access. One of the big challenges we have on the broadband side is that it's now 99 pst. Which can get broadband, so it's just about 60 pst. Who chooses to connect to broadband and make use of it. And that's the percentage we now need to work to get up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e1364	I thank you again for the answer. The Ministry of Local Affairs' website says that the Government in 2008 will generate a new 150 million. kr, so that one can reach the target by 2008. The Minister of Renewal had a different number here, so I don't know what number is right, what the appropriations in 2008 will be. But can the Council of State here and now promise that this will benefit Akershus, which is actually one of the worst-case states, both in terms of fixed access and mobile broadband?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e1371	What I'm referring to is what's the sum of what the Storing has allowed, that's just 30 million. kr on FAD's budget -- we got 10 million. kr in the state budget, and after the municipal committee has decided that I will spend 20 million. kr of what is in the renewal pot, a chapter under the Ministry of Renewal and Administration - and then these 150 million. kr, which exceeds KRD’s budget. When this is going to be 180 million. Together, it is said to see if KRD is using the same award criterion as last year. It shall clear KRD. But the 30 million. kr, which is in my department, will quite obviously be with and release the residual market, including the residual market in Akershus. Just how many there are, as I said, we're going to have a new analysis of, because we need the exact number to align the funds in the best possible way and get them out. Its fewer supply of sheep, the more it may cost, so maybe we'll see the rest of the market in the whole country as a whole. But that's what we're working on right now, and I'm going to come back to the committee where the representative is, when we know something more about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-09.ana.ud1222e1376	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the floor in accordance with Section 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
