ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e57	The representative Lise Christoffersen, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e66	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today and tomorrow - and consider it adopted. The President will propose Solvency Horne. Other proposals are not available, and Solvency Horne is considered unanimously elected president of today's and tomorrow's meetings. The representative, Ulf Leirstein, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e73	On behalf of the representatives of Gjermund Hagesetter, Ketil Solvik-Olsen and myself, I would like to promote a proposal by a representative on the review of tax depreciation rates.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e78	The representative, Torbjørn Hansen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e81	On behalf of the representatives of Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, Bent Höie, Peter Skovholt Gitmark, André Oktay Dahl and myself, I would like to make a proposal to strengthen the supervision of public acquisitions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e86	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e100	For us who are concerned that gender equality and women's rights should have their place in all policy areas, and equally fully that we should have women-settled measures, this is a big day. I would like to thank the Committee on Good Cooperation. On most of the points, the Committee is unanimous, and it promises well for the further work in this important area. The committee members have shown great commitment, so if, against assumption, I would not have time to explain the whole setting, I am sure that others will fill in. I would like to thank the Council of State and the Government, which have submitted the message. There is reason to be proud today, because we are dealing with a message that is the first in its kind in the world, as we know. Not least, I would like to thank all the organisations, who have great competence and who have challenged, made representations, asked the wise questions and contributed to the Committee not only confirming the government's policy in this area, but continuing the policy. Women's and women's organisations around the world have great skills that we have to listen to, we're going to move on. This is the beginning of taking equality seriously, not only in development policy, but also in foreign policy. The job is not done, the job is done. The women’s perspective must be included in the design of other staging messages, for example: in the major communication on corporate social responsibility and in the development message coming next year. Because there is no automation in the inclusion of the women's perspective. I would like to mention the Sudan Conference that took place here a while ago. One suddenly discovered that no women were invited to the important conference. Fortunately, the ministry discovered it and was invited to women from Sudan. Not enough that they were not invited in advance, but they had to fight to the conference. This shows that women across the world must fight not only against reactionary regimes, but also against the fact that the Security Council resolution on women, peace and security in many countries is still at the honorary stage. We know that the fight for women's rights had not progressed without the pioneers, the brave ones who went ahead. I'll tell you about some brave and tough women that I've met. The first is Marguerite Barankitse from Burundi. In the worst civil war, she took care of 150 Hutu and Tutsi children. Hutsibarn she called them. She felt that she had to show that it was for them to live together, for she had threatened it. She described how young boys, lit by drugs and other drugs, were used in the civil war for men to have power, but also how women are Africa’s hope. Now she runs the Maison Shalom organization. She runs a house for orphans and former child soldiers and gives them work and school. The second is Koso-Thomas, the Sierra Leoneian play that I met at the UN Women's Conference in 2000. For years she has been in the fight against genital mutilation. She has helped African women overcome feelings of shame and remorse over this gross assault. She's made many African women stand out as illegitimate organizers in this work. The third thing I want to point out is the women in the village of Bangladesh that I met on a committee trip. They had all the meetings in the square and spoke forcefully about the fight against violence against women. Finally, they went to the mayor to say from. It's these altering actors, women on grassroots, who don't find themselves in oppressive patriarchal and reactionary structures, and who want to have power over their own lives and bodies, who speak clearly, often at the risk of their own lives, we need to support and make them visible. For this work is not about charity. It's about moving power. Through our work, we should not just be a voice for the deaf. We're going to fight for a voice to the deaf. This means, among other things: support for women's self-organisation and mobilization at grassroots level, support for civil society involvement, including women's organisations in e.g. work on the «Oil for Development» programme in the poverty processes of the co-operation countries with the World Bank. We must support their inclusion when decisions are taken, for there is no automatic presence where power is exercised and decisions are taken. While women’s liberation and equality are a matter for their own rights, it is also necessary to achieve other development policy objectives. The UN and large parts of the international community have recognised that if one is to overcome poverty in the world and create conditions for giving more people a decent and better life, as defined in the Millennium Goals, women’s rights and living conditions need to be strengthened and improved. Women's resources and competences must be put into practice. Policies need to be developed with women's glasses on. 80 pst. of the world's poor are women and their children. Between 80 and 90 pst. of the poorest families have female single-parent families. Therefore, the entire international community must be mobilised for women's rights and central women's requirements as they were fought and as they are enshrined in both the Women's Convention, the Beijing Platform and Security Council Resolution 1325 on Women, Peace and Security. Women's equality has been a goal for years. The effort has been evaluated by NIBR on behalf of NORAD. The evaluation shows that this area is full of failure sins, whoever has been sitting with the government. The message is an answer to this criticism, and some of the answers are: yes, the women’s perspective must be integrated into all policy areas, but at the same time it must focus on women’s specific measures such as: the allocation of women. However, this two-track requires drivers with competence and a significant enhancement of competence for all development cooperation partners. The work must be anchored both at management level, in the department, in the embassies and in NORAD. The Committee notes the importance of research in the field, including studies on the situation of women and the power relationship between women and men in countries of cooperation. The Committee is committed to setting clear objectives and promoting measurable actions. The majority therefore ask the Government to consider allowances as an instrument. And I want to add that we have to have equality budgeting, that is. a gender monitoring of the assistance money. We need to know if resources actually lead to equality. At the UN's 52nd Women's Commission meeting in February, civil society was very clear on the need for the UN to have a strong and powerful unit for women's issues and equality. We know that Norway has been clear on this, first in the High Level Panel, then at Commission meetings. We know there's resistance, but it's about moving on with this. At the Women's Commission meeting, it was also clear that work on gender equality was underfunded. Central reports show it. Therefore, Norway must be an ambassador for funding and women’s rights at the follow-up meetings following the ‘Monterrey consensus’ in 2002 and the Paris Declaration of Aid Efficiency and National Ownership. Both meetings are going to be known this year, and I would like to hear the Council of State assess how he will promote women's rights and equality at these meetings too - raise this perspective. The Committee is concerned that the competences that we know exist in many women’s organisations, including women’s organisations. in the umbrella organisation FOKUS, and also in other organisations, need to be strengthened. In particular, we highlight the potential of minority women in Norway for development, but this means that they need to be made available. Here we have come too short both in action and thinking. Then we highlight the importance of taking a roof for indigenous women and disabled women. Both are dual discrimination groups, with less access to work, education and health services, and more than other groups are subjected to violence and harassment. The message and setting focus on lesbian, gay, biphil and transgender rights in development work, groups that are definitely attached to a rights and development perspective. The government has been clear on their rights, including: it has been clear on the decriminalisation of homophilis. The Committee asks the Government to remain clear. At one of the reflection conferences organised by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, this was a theme, and I have to say it made the impression to hear what lesbian female speakers in Africa are exposed to. That is why it is important to support and protect these courageous human rights activists and to bring the voices into international forums. Then it is important to stress that the work to strengthen the rights of these groups must not be confined to a question of sexual and reproductive rights, but that work must also include rights to political and economic participation, the right to education and the right to life free of violence and gender-based persecution. In view of this, the Committee considers that an offensive policy must be pursued along seven main axes. Firstly, women and men must participate in the policy on equal terms. I have previously pointed out the importance of supporting women's self-organisation and grassroots work, but there is also a need for strong figures in several arenas in the decision-making process, including at the highest level. In several countries, changes have been made to the better, as in Rwanda, the country that has the most female parliamentarians. It was important that Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf, one of the authors of the incredibly important report on women, war and security, an important report in the work of the 1325 resolution on women, peace and security, was elected president of war-torn Liberia. It was not obvious that she would be elected, but it happened after a mobilization of female voters. They must still have hope. Therefore, Norway must continue to work for equality in weak countries, working for women to be represented at a high level, as we committed ourselves to at the 52nd UN Conference on Women. And we must support those who dare challenge fundamentalist forces, such as the female Afghan parliamentarian Malalai Joya and those who redefine dogmas, such as. Islamic women activists and female theologians. Secondly, women must participate on equal terms in economic policy. We know how much economic independence has had to say for women in Norway. The same will apply in developing countries, where many women work in the informal sector, with miserable wages and without contracts and social rights. Norway supports the work of decent work. It is also important to ensure access to small loans and other financial services to support women’s entrepreneurship. At the February Women's Conference, the message was ready: Women must have access to the money in the large Multi-Donor Trust Funds. In transitional stages following war and conflict, it is particularly important that women have access to the large amount of money provided by the world community through these funds. Women's right to property - including collective rights - and inheritance - in trade policy and in programmes such as the 'Oil for Development' must be strengthened. Thirdly, equal access to education shall be granted to women and men. Education is and will be a priority area of development policy. It is good that this message has a life-cycle view. The Women's Convention also applies to girls. It is particularly important in this area, because in many countries it is not said that girls get started, or get completed, a training course. The Committee emphasises the importance of the provision of education and training to promote equality and the importance of higher education and vocational training, which can guarantee women the right to participate in society and mean something. Fourth, women must be entitled to health care and control over their own bodies and sexuality. An overall committee agrees that reproductive and sexual rights and health are fundamental to women's right to participate in society. There is a need to work hard for -- in a world where thousands of women and girls die as a result of unsafe abortions, or as a result of the lack of access to basic health services in connection with pregnancy and childbirth. I am proud that the Minister of Development has lifted this up in the international arena. This requires long-term and systematic work, which must be given even greater priority in, for example: Our work in the UN Women's Commission. Fifthly, women are entitled to a life without violence. Violence, in the form of either domestic violence, annihilation, coercion, or trafficking in human beings, is about the control of men over women. That is why the UN's campaign against violence against women and the work of the Council of Europe deserve all support. As part of this work, UNIFEM has launched a signature campaign, and I now encourage the Storting to engage in that signature campaign. Sixth, women shall have an equivalent role in the peace and reconciliation process. Women and children are the biggest losers in war and conflict. But women also have resources. It's those who make everyday life go around during wars and conflicts, and it's those who know how a reconciliation process can be viable. Security Resolution 1325 was a milestone, but - as I said when I told you about what happened at the Sudan Conference - it is still a long time before it is said that women automatically play a role around the negotiating table or in the processes afterwards. Therefore, this work must be lifted. Norway has an action plan that we are proud of, and we need to help other countries to do the same. Seventh, women and men shall participate on equal terms in the work on climate, environment and humanitarian crises. Women and their children are vulnerable to climate change and to crises, but they often have the greatest knowledge of local natural resources, food security and prevention strategies. I want to promote the work of the right to water as a human right in this perspective. On this joy day, as it seems that we will succeed in banning the worst class weapons, I will also highlight the importance of continuing the work on removing landmines. I know that women's funding can be a topic. I will then tell here and now that the women's allowance has been restored. And I hope that we can continue to increase this allocation, which is incredibly important. Then it is a pleasure to present the vote and recommend the committee's proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e174	I am proud that women and equality are the main priority of the Government in development policy. And I am very pleased that the Government dares to be a strong and visible player in promoting precisely women's rights and equality in all development work, both bilaterally and multilaterally. Norway is, and must be, an unreasonable champion of women's rights and equality - and is, and must be, against persecution and discrimination based on sex, disability and orientation, even where this is controversial and sensitive. As the rapporteur, Valle, said in his statement, this communication is not just about women and women's rights, but about women and minorities in development policy. It's important to get there. And Norway is just an unreasoning champion of their rights. It's absolutely necessary - if we're going to be able to achieve the Millennium Goals. Our goals of increased development, poverty reduction and the realisation of universal human rights can only be achieved through a strong focus on precisely women, minorities and equality. Women's rights are human rights, not a separate and subordinate category with rights that can come in second row. That's why we need to have a woman's perspective with us in everything we do, but we also need to focus on it through our own strategies and efforts. We must bet on women in development policy because poverty has a woman's face. Poverty is a bigger problem for women than for men. 75 pst. of the world's poorest are women. Women are also hit harder. 90 pst. of those affected by war and conflict, are the innocent civilian population, they are women and they are children. Women are now more affected by the HIV/AIDS epidemic than men, and women lack reproductive rights. Many places in the world are much of the man's honor attached to the woman's body, and that's a problem. Lack of control over one's own body and sexuality is just associated with basic lack of respect for women. This leads to the spread of HIV/AIDS, violence and assault, poor care at birth and pregnancy and poor safety at abortion. Reproductive health and sexuality is a very charged topic, and very many forces international jobs to counteract openness around this. Many demand jobs to combat prevention, prevention of HIV/AIDS and safe abortions. Unfortunately, several members of the Committee have experienced that the US- Vatican alliance, together with some Islamic states, is blocking progress in women and reproductive health and sexuality, for example. in the United Nations system. It's a very serious challenge. It also makes the world need countries like Norway, which dare there other tens. We need those who speak to decriminalize abortion, we need those who speak to let the woman decide on her own body, and we need those who actively work against assault and violence against women. Most of the world's illiterates are women. Women have fewer rights than men, but at the same time women have a greater workload than men. Women are often responsible for the main part of the household and food production, not talking about caring for children. Nevertheless, women have fewer formal rights than men - they have no ownership, they have no inheritance, they are not economically independent or equal, and they often have no right or real opportunity to take a job. Women across large parts of the world do not have the right to vote. Women are under-represented at all decision-making levels worldwide as a result of attitudes and traditional gender roles. This means that women do not have a real opportunity to participate, or there are legal barriers that simply prohibit women from participating. Women's right to education is crucial and central to the fight against poverty, in order to make women participate and strengthen their rights. The fact that women receive education also has ring-fenced effects. When we train girls, we also increase the chance that their children will be educated. When women receive education and knowledge of nutrition and health, it also strengthens children’s health. When women get school, they give birth to fewer children. Education is in many ways the way out of poverty for the woman. The fact that women receive education also means economic growth for the society in which they live. That women do not receive education and that women do not participate in decisions is not only discriminatory to the women of the world, but it is also a brake on just economic development in very many developing countries. Just as with women's participation in decision-making processes, there are many documents and resolutions that establish the importance of, but I would like to mention in particular the importance of taking a force to make the world follow up UN Security Council Resolution 1325. The UN Resolution on Women, Peace and Security highlights the importance of women participating at all levels in conflict management, peace negotiations and reconstruction in war zones. 1325 states that women's participation is a prerequisite for peace. That's why it's so important. Unfortunately, it is not that women's participation is a prerequisite in large parts of the world. If women participate, their work is often marginalised, but the main problem is that they are not allowed to participate. We have a lot of examples that it's just women and the groups of women that in many cases go ahead. In Bosnia, there were just women's groups who were first out to meet, despite ethnic barriers. They formulated a platform for how the country would move forward. In Israel and in the Palestinian territories, women's organisations cooperate across borders - the ethnic boundaries, the religious boundaries and the political boundaries. They're trying to see possible solutions to the conflicts. The same is true in very many conflict-affected areas, for example: in Africa. In Iraq, women are fighting against religious extremism and against terrorism. We have a lot of other examples of women going in the front line. The problem is that their work is invisible and marginalised by the major policy actors who are just dominated by men. The reasons why poverty has a great deal of a woman's face are women's lack of rights, there is a lack of power and equality, there is a lack of right to reproductive health and there is a lack of education, property and productive resources. This is once again about basic attitudes and social structures. It's about responsible men and changing people's attitudes. We must dry out challenging men in power positions around the world to take responsibility for promoting equality. We have to do that for women's self-esteem, but also if we mean something by achieving the Millennium Goals, and if we mean something by creating growth and development in the poorest parts of the world. It should therefore be lacking that Norway does not prioritise this high in our development strategies - politically, by just drying where other tens, speaking the case of women where others leave off, and also economically and concretely through development assistance priorities, such as: the allocation of women. I will support what the case rapporteur, Mr Ågot Valle, said, that the women's allocation is going to be untouched. I also hope that we can increase it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e204	The Government claims in the Single European Act that women’s rights and gender equality are one of the most important areas of development policy. The discussion of the communication by the Foreign Affairs Committee shows that Stortinget shares this view, as the vote we are considering today is unanimous on most of the points, as the case-law rapporteur, Mr Ågot Valle, was concerned about. Improvements in women’s position and rights are often long-term work, as they include: is about changing power structures and power relationships. It is therefore important that the authorities, together with civil society, further develop policies in this area, and we look forward to the forthcoming Communication of Development, in which policies in this field can be further developed. We are pleased that a unanimous Committee on Foreign Affairs in the vote states that evaluation of aid results can be difficult to achieve without clear objectives and measurable measures. Since the UN's first women's conference, in 1975, there has been many progress, especially with a view to getting more women to participate in the decision-making process. However, there is still a long way to go in many places. Women’s discrimination, which hinders women’s participation, is often justified by culture, tradition and religion. Fundamentalists and fundamentalist movements threaten women's rights and equality. I am very pleased that a unanimous committee states that Norwegian citizens should be clear and say from there, and hold national authorities responsible for rights conventions. It is also important to support women who, through their own organisation, challenge patriarchal power structures, as we see examples from among others. Islamic women activists. The participation of women in the value-creating sector is crucial in development policy, both to ensure their economic independence and to combat poverty. Access to capital through micro-credit has proved to be a very positive contribution to this. The members of the Foreign Affairs Committee received close experience during a visit to Angola in the last harvest. There we met small business owners, both women and men, who proudly told us about their projects. It is also very important that the laws of each country provide both property rights and rights of use for women in order to strengthen their opportunities for entrepreneurship. In many places, it is also necessary to incorporate women's inheritance rights into legislation. Without this, many poor women are at risk today of standing on a bar without the possibility of caring for themselves and their children. Nutrient development and trade are crucial to combating poverty. Small enterprises with local anchoring are often important elements of future economic development, and even here women who are active can play a crucial role. Education for girls is another and very important prerequisite for eradicating poverty and must be a priority area both for development and for efforts to strengthen women's rights and equality. Combating violence against women must also be a priority area. The Vienna Declaration of the Council of Europe and the United Nations campaign must therefore be actively followed up by Norway. Gender-based violence is an obstacle to women's development, realization and participation and must be combated. Gender mutilation, the killing of new-born girls and the killing of honors are totally unacceptable and must be countered with active action both by the Norwegian side and by the world community. Finally, I would like to stress that women in poor countries do not automatically have to be defined into a victim role, although unfortunately this is the case in many places. Women are a significant resource in many countries, which has not been widely known. A clearer awareness of this need to be sought, as well as a much stronger need to facilitate active female participation at all levels of society. This is an important prerequisite for the success of policies that can contribute to a positive development in poor countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e230	Thank you to the case rapporteur, who has done a considerable work on the subject -- with great commitment and great experience. The rapporteur has also made a detailed and comprehensive presentation of the communication in his statement. The scope and diversity of themes involved in the communication are quite comprehensive and in many ways reflect the fact that women’s rights and gender equality in development work were previously generally embedded in so-called ‘mainstreaming’. That wasn't good enough. Now we're getting further, and that's good. There are two main steps that are essential for us to get a better treatment of these issues in the time to come. The first is that we've got our own budget chapter for the topic, and it's an expression of an increased systematic investment. It needs to be seen as embarrassing that the appropriations were proposed to be reduced in the revised national budget, some of which have been received, while at the same time dealing with the programming message. That timing was striking. We hope that this is not an expression of how deep the priorities really are at the Council of State, but I understand, of course, the government parties, who already now announce that they will not be involved in our treatment of the revised national budget. The second main thing that has been done is that we have received our own message. It believes that the Right is positive for several reasons - firstly, because these issues are put high in focus, and solutions are better integrated in different contexts, and secondly because a more systematic planned work based on a debate on the Single European Act also provides a better opportunity to define performance targets, to provide an evaluation and to document achievement in a completely different way than before. For this reason, we are somewhat surprised that the communication is not clearer in its priorities with the precise design of performance targets, possible indicators and concrete plans for the evaluation of the achievement of the target. As stated in a joint comment from the opposition parties, the expected improvement was not least due to the fact that one has behind six action plans and a position note as one of the basis for the preparation of the notification. Without such an approach, we're at risk of this becoming a lot of well-meaning words, a lot of big words, and it could be empty words. And that's our job to prevent. Right hope that this is not also an expression of the priorities of the Council of State, but we are excited about the follow-up, and we are responding to a more prioritised, performance-oriented approach, for example. in the draft budget for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e245	Strengthening women's rights and promoting equality is an important part of development cooperation. It is important in itself, but it is also important to improve the situation of the poorest and most vulnerable groups. Strengthening the position of women in general, and their health and education in particular, is a key to achieving results in a much wider field. With this key, we can improve the growing-up conditions for children and young people, but also care for the sick and the elderly. Let me illustrate this with some examples. Women often play a key role in the production of food for their own use. Women play a key role in the family’s cooking and nutrition situation. Women and girls often have to go a long way to get both water and fuel. Women play a key role in child education. Often it is the mothers who help the children with homework in primary school. Women take care of a lot of home-based care for the sick and the elderly. When the gender role pattern gives women such a key role in key welfare areas, it is strategically crucial to reach women with education, knowledge, health care and the development of rights. There are therefore many good reasons for improving women's rights and living conditions. Firstly, they have the right to equality and to benefit from the fundamental human rights in line with men. Secondly, it is also strategically important in combating poverty and in working for more general development purposes. The gender equality work here at home has a long history. It is not that long in development policy, but also here it has been part of the political agenda for decades. The first Development Minister who launched an Action Plan for Women's Assistance was the first Minister of Development we have had, namely Reidun Brusletten from the Christian People's Party. It happened in 1985, more than 20 years ago. For several decades, we have been committed along two lines: specific appropriations for women’s assistance and the integration of women’s concerns into aid cooperation in general. Much has been done through state aid, through international aid organisations and through non-governmental organisations working with partners in the south. But changing attitudes and gender roles takes time. Overall efforts by the authorities of the developing countries and by the international aid community have been too small. The Christian People's Party is impatient on behalf of the poorest, who deserve a better life. We should have wanted an even stronger poverty orientation from the Government, because the poorest and most needy people have the greatest need for assistance. We are impatient on behalf of women who deserve equality instead of discrimination. We're impatient on behalf of girls who need education. The Christian People's Party regrets that the Government no longer has education as a priority field. We want to work for it to become a priority again, not least for the sake of girls' right to education. If we're going to achieve the Millennium Goals, we're going to have to invest more here, not less. We are impatient on behalf of women who deserve better health care, so that we reduce maternal mortality and child mortality. There is broad support for heavy efforts to achieve the Millennium Goals on reduced maternal mortality and child mortality. It is positive that this is being followed up, and I will give the Government the approval of its international initiative in this field, which has raised great and wide awareness and has gained support. The Christian People's Party is impatient on behalf of women. That is why we are pleased that the big message is ambitious in its general objectives. But we might have expected more operational performance targets that allow us to measure how effectively you achieve what you want. This message is not good enough. We point that out in a note that the entire opposition in Stortinget is behind. It is also a weakness that the notification does not adequately explain the development of a centre of competence. We have previously supported the idea of this, but the government has not given the necessary concreteness of the idea in the communication. The work on women's rights and gender equality requires a comprehensive strategy. The battle must take place along seven main axes: Women and men shall participate in the policy on equal terms. They shall participate on equal terms in economic life. They shall have equal access to education. They shall have the right to health care and to have sexual integrity. They shall be entitled to a life without violence. Women shall have an equivalent role in peace and reconciliation work and participate on equal terms in work on climate, environment and humanitarian crises. These general objectives are widely agreed at Stortinget. In this context, I would like to pay tribute to the rapporteur and the rest of the Committee for the willingness to find common wording on virtually all points in this position. It's important, because it's a hard job, and we're on it together. This also applies to the following point: the notification points to the problem that in some parts of the world there are more abortions on the female foetuses than on the male foetuses. According to estimates presented by the organization Plan, this results in a girl deficit of about 100 million girls. This is mentioned in the communication, but surprisingly, without any guidance as to what you will do from the Norwegian side. There's something that the committee's fixing up together. It is positive that the entire committee believes that the consideration of these unborn girls who are being aborted is a major problem based on their human dignity. It says, ‘in the fight against discrimination and for human dignity and equality, gender discrimination is a major problem’. We are pleased that we have helped the entire committee to establish that active action is needed on the Norwegian side to combat this discriminatory practice of abortion. With the strong and broad support that the whole Stortinget provides for the work of women-oriented assistance and women's rights, ambitious goals have been set. Now it is the government's responsibility to deliver results. Now, as before, we have to assume that we need patience before the goals are achieved. The patience and the perseverance of the effort we must show. This issue is too important for it to be deprioritised in favour of changing media attention or political trend shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e295	Let me first thank the rapporteur for a good and thorough work on the big message. Let me start by saying that it is very positive that the Government has submitted this message. Experience has shown that gender mainstreaming, so-called ‘mainstreaming’, is not working. A targeted women's policy is necessary if we are to achieve results for the world's poorest, where the majority are women. I would also like to thank the case rapporteur for helping to strengthen both messages and actions even more, and it has been widely accepted by an overall committee. For the Centre Party, it is essential that our women-oriented development policy is directed towards helping women to address their own situation and that society as a whole benefits from the competences and abilities of women. This is done by supporting women’s organisations and their place in organisations. It is also done by contributing to female participation in all forums and in production at all levels - not only as underpaid workers at the bottom of the ranks and as farmers without rights or support systems. I would also say that by supporting women's participation in political life, among other things, will. the fight for democracy and against corruption will be strengthened. At the same time, democratic participation of women is a process that takes time. The centre party started a cross-political party construction programme in Tanzania in 2005. The project was to strengthen party participation from below. We found that we had to start right from the bottom of, informing women in rural areas about their rights to participate in political life. Just knowing about their rights gave these women a sense of self, dignity and strength to fight for the same rights -- fighting for acceptance at home and fighting to get their places in the political processes. It is often better for women today to be elected into politics, governance and advice. What we also experienced was that many young women who learned about their political rights got very excited, and they have preserved their commitment and their willingness to fight, despite early marriages and other obligations. In our work, there was a demand that there should be as many women as men in the project at all levels. It was a long fight. Had the parties had to pick out themselves, it would have been neither women nor youth with. It helps women in their fight for rights to make demands. Norway can and should contribute to a clear voice for women's rights, and to further strengthen women's rights at all levels, both in international forums and in our bilateral relations. Women are the most discriminated against in almost all societies, and women and girls with so-called anomalies are even lower on the ranks. This applies to women and girls with disabilities and to women with different sexual orientations. By being such a clear and radical voice, Norway will also contribute to creating a space for the struggle that women must fight and prioritise themselves. At the same time, this is not enough. This government captured the fact that the World Bank and the IMF’s tough requirements for structuralisation of loans and debt have contributed to cuts in public welfare and education, which have particularly affected women and girls. The same applies to the liberalisation of imports and agricultural production. When local production is undermined by subsidised imports, women suffer the most, women lose income and women who cannot afford to send their children to school. Therefore, it is essential that Norway and the Government contribute to preventing and changing international policies that reduce women’s capacity for action in particular to create change. We know from our own society that it's a long way to go until we have equality, for example. equal pay between sexes and equal pay between women's and men's occupations. We also know that redistribution of power and resources between the sexes requires mobilization of boys and men. Awareness-raising activities carried out on the ground level, together with Norwegian women’s organisations, including: in the Philippines against trafficking in women, is an example of such important new work. That is why this Women's Communication is welcome and necessary, and we must assume that it will require follow-up in the foreseeable future. A clear objective of the Women's Communication is for women and men to participate on equal terms in economic life. Women are producers, important producers, but often have limited control and ownership of the production resources they manage, and little access to support schemes and reasonable credits. This is particularly true in agriculture. It's not just a phrase when we say that the African farmer is a woman. Therefore, the varied production structure, with a focus on small scale production and support for maximising the use of local resources, fertilisers, seeds and simple and efficient irrigation systems, is crucial. But it is also important that she does not compete with subsidised agricultural products. It is also important that she does not compete with food aid, which has come too often when there has been surplus production, especially in the United States. Therefore, it is good that in recent years it has been focused on the fact that food aid should be in the form of financial contributions that can be used carefully to buy local food. The government is clear on this line. That's good. Women are at the heart of food security in poor countries. The UN Food Organisation, FAO, prosecutors provide communities, global institutions and national authorities with regard to the failure of agricultural aid. The centre party is pleased that there is an overall increase which believes that Norway has a special responsibility to help support especially women in agriculture. Between 80 and 90 pst. single-parent families have women as dependants. There are heavy burdens on women. The children thus become dependent on one woman’s income. These are often in the informal sector or at the bottom of the pay scale in the formal sector. The labour rights and conditions of these women are often very poor. It is therefore essential that the Government follow up the right to decent work and working conditions, as defined by the ILO. I believe that the telenor case in Bangladesh shows that it is essential to work with the social responsibility of the business community, as announced in the upcoming big news. At the same time, I do not think that there are enough voluntary guidelines. It needs binding guidelines globally. At the same time, all experience shows that there is an important signal effect for some countries to go ahead. Binding minimum standards should be established to ensure that Norwegian businesses abroad have obligations, not only rights, when they establish themselves. Education for girls is at the heart of gender equality and of strengthening women’s and girls’ rights and position in society. But many women have also grown up without access to education. Therefore, it is essential that both facilitate equal access to education for children and develop relevant provision of education for women, tailored to their situation in life and needs. Finally, I would like to stress that women, both in peacemaking and in humanitarian disaster work, have traditionally been seen as passive recipients. They have been treated as victims, and their needs have been assumed by men and by foreign auxiliary workers. I think that with this message we have taken a first step in looking at women as operational actors. It is about participation not only when decisions are to be taken but also in implementation. It is usually women who are the hardest hit. At the same time, women are most familiar with survival strategies, formal and informal structures - what can reduce vulnerability. The Security Council Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security set out important principles. It has been achieved as a result of global cooperation between women’s organisations, but it is still a long way to go before perspectives and attitudes locally and among auxiliary workers and diplomats give women the role they should have. The objective of integrating women’s rights into the whole of development policy in Norway and internationally remains a long way to go. I am pleased that we have now received this message in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e333	I would like to begin by commending the Government for producing a big message on an important topic that actually concerns us all - and thank you to the case rapporteur, who has done a considerable amount of preparatory work in this setting. I fully support the assessment that women's rights are not just an end in themselves. It is also a necessary prerequisite for achieving other development policy objectives. If half the population of a country is oppressed or kept down by anti-female gender patterns and traditions, it will reduce opportunities for promoting development and combating poverty. As a group, women are far worse off than men in the statistics on the achievement of the UN’s Millennium Goals. Although only two of the objectives are directly related to women's rights and gender equality, this is important in order to achieve all the other Millennium Goals. I therefore think it is positive that the communication makes a broad and clear effort, also in sensitive areas related to religion and traditions. Furthermore, I think it is positive that the effort should include not only girls and women, but also boys and men. In most countries, boys and men dominate the areas where women are discriminated against. Thus, men play an important role in promoting women's rights. More specifically, many men should be influenced to avoid old gender roles and to allow women to participate fully in economic, political and social processes. This is best done by showing that men also serve a more equal society. When locked-up sex role patterns become loose, men are also given greater freedom to make individual choices. As a social liberal, it feels right to underline this. It also gives strong impressions of meeting active women who are fighting for their equal position in society and fundamental rights - no later than four women’s organisations in Nicaragua and small business owners in a poor Angola. In sum, the submitted Storing Communication testifies to a high level of ambition, both in width and depth. As I see it, the message appears as a follow-up to the red-green government's intention to make women and equality one of the four main areas of aid policy. In view of this, I do not fully understand the government’s priority in the revised national budget for 2008, which proposes that 16.5 million be given. kr less to cap. 168, Women and Equal Opportunities. This is not entirely in line with the high ambitions that the government here has given. Now, the representative Valle and several others from the government parties have mentioned in their posts that the Government will not reduce this item. I'm glad. That said, it is worth mentioning that a policy to promote women's rights and equality can be pursued along many different tracks. Action can be taken on concrete and targeted measures, and consideration of women’s rights and gender equality can be given to all other assistance, so-called ‘mainstreaming’. However, I have little faith in an argument that a reduction in funding can be compensated for by better integration of women's rights and equality into all other assistance. One problem here is that the results of such efforts are much more difficult to measure than the results of more concrete female-based measures. Therefore, one will always be able to hide behind the fact that one has now become better at integrating equality into all other assistance. In fact, in the proposal for a revised national budget, the Left has also proposed keeping the appropriations to the top. 168, don't reduce it. We want to put full pressure on as well concrete women-settled measures as ‘mainstreaming’. Experience shows that Norwegian policies for integrating women’s rights and gender equality into development cooperation have been characterised by high ambitions, but efforts have not always been systematic enough in practice. Furthermore, Norway can point to many good and important outcomes at the level of intervention, but these have contributed little to profound changes. Nevertheless, I believe that the Government must continue to invest in both types of measures and that there is a significant unused potential associated with them. This will probably require a more systematic effort and active intervention to put some of the good intentions of this big message into life. Women's efforts must not be added to, or at the top of, everything else, but permeate everything one does. In this work, the government can draw on the six women’s action plans that existed before it began working on this communication. War, conflict and unrest affect women and men in different ways. A particular feature of most violent conflicts is that the civilian population is subjected to serious and often systematic abuse. This often affects women and children. Rape as a means of warfare or of repressing a group is unfortunately not an unknown phenomenon in our time. The same applies to the use of boys like soldiers and girls as sex slaves. I react to women and children almost automatically being defined into a victim role. This applies not only to wars and unrest, but also to underdevelopment and poverty in general. In many cases it is justified. Women are weak and are often a very vulnerable group. However, this should not obscure the fact that women can also appear to be a significant and unused resource. This applies, inter alia, to: as regards promoting peace and reconciliation after war and unrest and contributing to economic development. After a violent conflict, it is often women who appear to be the first to provide emergency assistance, and as the first to get the wheels back on track. I therefore agree that women's competence and capacity must be fully recognised and used in conflict prevention and peace and reconstruction processes. This should not remain a man-dominated arena. I would also like to highlight the important role women can play in promoting business development in order to combat poverty. Women make up a number of agricultural spines in Africa. Furthermore, in many cases they have proved to be skilled entrepreneurs who are responsible for micro-credit lending. I am therefore committed to promoting women's industrial development in our development policy. Micro-enterprises, small enterprises and medium-sized enterprises with local anchoring and attracting local resources, including women's skills and workforce, are at the centre of the process. I think this is a huge unused potential. I am also concerned that the focus on women's health, not least in relation to pregnancy and childbirth, is kept strong, and also of the great importance of education for girls and women. I also want to emphasise the importance of developing countries having ownership of their own development. Norway, as a relatively important donor country, must not use assistance to push through its own policy priorities. More specifically, measures to promote women's rights and gender equality should be anchored as closely as possible locally. Those affected should acquire ownership of the process. Although we believe that Norway has found a good model for gender equality, this cannot be exported to other countries without further delay. I think we're in here in an area that requires patience, respect and sensitivity. If we go too fast, our partners can choose to close the door and see another way. Finally, I would like to point out that the Left does not reject the idea of creating a new women-oriented centre of competence, as proposed by the Government. I am, like several others, open to the possibility of the Forum on Women and Development as a centre for developing funds to reach grassroots organisations in poor countries. But, at the same time, I believe that this is not explained enough, either in terms of scope or function. This could be done, for example, by: overlap with the activities of other existing bodies and forums. I therefore assume that the government is investigating this before we can finally take a position on this good idea. This big message deserves clear goals and active action in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e369	Several speakers have stressed that it is historic for a government to present, and for a national assembly to deal with, a big message on a topic as important as women in development policy. Let me thank the Stortinget for a very good cooperation on this. Although of course the government, and I, would like to take credit for what has happened, I think we must be honest enough to say that it is not certain this would have happened if it had not been for the strong pressure of active women in many parties in the Stortinget, and also from some men. This is a matter where the Storting took the initiative and wanted the Government to follow up. We've been following up, and it's been a good cooperation. I would like to say that the debate reflects consensus, and if I can say it in a ghostly way: what most of all symbolizes the consensus in the debate is that the articles of the Progress Party here would obviously qualify for membership of all Norwegian women's organisations. I guess that shows that the world is moving forward, and that we can stand together in a lot. I think the case rapporteur, Mr Ågot Valle, put a headline on the whole debate. She said, "Politics must be developed with the women's glasses on." That's what I think is at the heart of the matter -- the big, important areas that are not direct women's issues: peace, economic development, economic growth, business. The representative Samuelsen was involved in the social responsibility of business. All these questions need to be seen with ‘the women’s glasses on’. In addition, there are a number of separate women’s issues related to health, violence, education, etc. So you have to take both the specific women's questions and the broad questions, and look at everything with women's glasses on. I think that's what we should probably take most of all with us from this debate. Of course, women too are most affected by policy in the broad areas. Women in a war country are affected differently by this than men in a war country. But for both of them, almost always the most important thing is to stop the war. Any measure that contributes to it will also be an important measure for women in a war country. Women suffer more in the world under energy shortage. When the majority of India's population, for example, does not have access to electricity, it means that the work of women becomes extra heavy as a result. So something that, of course, both men and women in India will have a huge joy of, is whether we can contribute to the development of solar energy, hydropower or whatever it may be. The social responsibility of the business community is another area of this kind, where in a good number of cases, women see that they have the biggest problems, but there is a lot to learn from the broad policy. I am very happy that many people have stressed that we should not see women primarily in a victim role. There are women in some specific situation, perhaps the most closely related to rape and violence against women, and in some situations such as sexual mutilation, but above all women make up more than half the population of most countries, and these are more than able to speak their own language. They are a crucial force for any significant social relationship, not least for the economy. The World Bank has produced a report that has a title that appealed to me, and it is: «Gender Equality as Smart Economics». The essence of it is of course to see that without the leading role of women and the economic power of women, it is very difficult to imagine that a country should be able to make economic progress. It's just looking at our own country. If we hadn't gotten almost all of the women into the labour market in one generation, it's impossible to imagine that we wouldn't have been significantly reduced financially in relation to where we stand today. So the major women's policy issues are interwoven with all the policies, but there are also some specific women's issues. Here I allow myself to bring a tribute to middle-class women. I mean basically that the middle class is the most undervalued social class everywhere. We've had a tendency on the left hand side to pay tribute to the working class, and that's all right. People on the bourgeois side have tended to pay tribute to the very best. But very often it is the broad middle class that is actually the one that keeps many societies up, and that in many contexts is the most important anchoring of completely fundamental democratic values and other values. In all the societies that we know, it has been that middle-class women who have mainly been at the forefront of women's forms, those that we have seen in Norway, and those that we now see in many other countries. So is almost all other social change. It can't start with the poorest, those who have the hardest, those who don't know what to eat tomorrow, those who don't know how to scrape together enough money to hang themselves through from day to day. It is very rare that they will have enough surplus to take the social leadership to change social development. In almost every country, not least in our own, there were sanitary women, the women in business, the churches and the labour movement that brought about the social changes. Very many of these were middle class women. That is why we should not demand that all our women's policies should have immediate poverty orientation, in the sense that they should reach the very poorest immediately. Changing the broad framework for social development is also what changes women's situation, and there have been middle-class women, systematically in countries by country, who have been at the forefront of it. Let's accept that, and let's give them support in the work they do in many countries. This is a message The Stortinget has heard from me many times before: the world does not go from bad to worse. Also in women there are many things that go from good to better. Look at the educational situation. The Nepalese Constitutional Assembly decided yesterday to wind up the kingdom of Nepal with-- I think it was-- 540 against 4 votes. It's probably one of the clearest majority that's ever been on a similar question in any country. But what's not much talk about is the underlying, that girls and boys are now starting school in Nepal in exactly the same number. There's no difference. There may be a tendency for girls to end something earlier, but they all start, almost to say, a huge advance. In neighbouring Bangladesh, which is a Muslim country, which rejects the fact that it is religion that is the determining factor here, the exact same thing happens. There are now more girls than boys who start school in Muslim Bangladesh. And even more important, of course, is that this is now approaching 100 pst. both in Nepal and Bangladesh, where it is now about 90 p.m. in both countries. of the children who start school. In other words, enormous progress, and also enormous progress for equality, because in both countries, and this is among the poor countries of the world, both girls and boys are starting school. We have, in the past, been involved in the drastic revolution that is taking place in many countries by the fact that many more women are involved in politics. I think it was the case rapporteur who pointed out that it is almost 50 pst. Women in the Rwandan National Assembly, and a number of African countries now have female finance ministers, female foreign ministers, etc. - traditional power positions. If I'm going to draw out an area that I feel may have received too little attention, and where it's obvious that it's not just progress, it's violence against women. There are very few things that might be worse for a human being than to sleep at night and don't know if this is the night it should again be practiced violence against me, whether it is my husband who is the threat to me, my neighbors, or an armed group that exists in the heights around my house. Burundi, a small country in Africa, has just had a significant level of violence in and around the capital. That means that women do not sleep safely at night. So in East Timor, which I visited last week, there was violence in 2006. Not many people died, but 15 pst. of the population fled. Many of them were women, and many of them were also afraid of gender-specific violence, afraid of being raped, because society was in disintegration. I think it's very difficult for us -- for men in particular, but also of course for women in Norway who live under safe conditions -- to really feel the fear that you have in a society where there is no police, and where the military groups you see are not there to protect you, but perhaps against attacking you. As Anne Margrethe Larsen had in mind, in some cases a systematic means of winning warriors has been raped, meaning to terrorize the population. There's nothing happening because you don't have enough control over your soldiers and your ex-husbands are running around doing malicious things. It is a systematic and planned means of war - as we saw in former Yugoslavia, and as we now see in Congo, for example. There is one of the most disgusting things that exist, so let's be resolute in the fight against all those who organize rape as a means of war. Then there are a number of specific questions raised in the debate. Let me just try to answer some of them. Both Finn Martin Vallersnes and Dagfinn Højbrätten were concerned about the need for more systematic work on indicators that show whether we are going in the right direction or not. I'll share it. NORAD is in the process of developing such indicators and will provide a mid-term review in 2009 to see if we can succeed in developing indicators to measure whether or not it is moving forward. We're also looking at an equal opportunities budgeting. We are looking at how to measure whether the budget contributes to the necessary progress. We certainly share the view that many of the great advances in women's struggle are not easy to measure from minute to minute, or from day to day. It's just looking at our own society, how it's fundamentally changed in one generation. Everything about women's questions is completely different in Norway today than it was when I was a boy. It was not easy to see the changes every day or every month, although we can see today with a historical glance that there was definitely another way in terms of kindergarten, abortion, women in leadership positions, women in politics, female priests, female doctors, or whatever it might be. The fact that girls in Norway are now doing better in all the subjects at school, from doctorate to kindergarten, was at least not something I was told when I was a boy, that that was how it was going to go. The point is that it's not always easy to see final historical changes from month to month even if it goes in a positive direction, but we're going to try to measure it better than we can do today. Mr Valle asked about the Accra conference on aid issues. State Secretary Håkon A. Gulbrandsen will participate, and we will help to make the gender perspective clear. I want to attend the Doha Conference on Financing for Development, which is a major event in terms of how aid can be used sensibly in the world, and the other money relating to development, business, corruption money, etc. There, too, we are going to contribute to the inclusion of women's and gender perspective. So I distance myself from Dagfinn's claim that the government does not put education as an essential part of the policy. That's it. Norway has won in almost all international competitions – to the extent that you can talk about it – about being the best at educational assistance. So it's a very strange debate that we should be very bad in that area. We spend more money on education and health than at any other point in the development budget, so I cannot accept that claim. And we are organizing the so-called Education for All Conference here in Oslo in December, as an international symbol that Norway is not following, but on the contrary is a central country in the driving seat in terms of education assistance. On the other hand, I very much agree with Dagfinn Høybråten on the question of gender-selective abortion. I think that's an underestimated international problem. Of course, it's a moral problem that was raised here, but it's also a long-term political problem that's worth thinking about. So what happens to a society when it starts to get 85 girls for every 100 boys? It's a historical experiment we don't know from ever before. There have been many more women in war countries than men, but I don't know any historical society where there have been many more men than women. If current developments in some countries are allowed to continue over time, then once in the future, when people get older and get married, in some societies you will have a clear human surplus. I think one should also consider the social psychological and political consequences of such a development. Interestingly, this is not a phenomenon of poverty. If you are to have a child, it is often in the middle class that you want a boy to be the strongest. So it's essentially a middle-class phenomenon to promote boys and abortion girls. I therefore welcome a significantly more international debate on this. I am absolutely sure that the authorities in India and in China, which are the countries in question, are as concerned about this as we are. It's not a theme where it's appropriate to travel around with an international index finger, but a theme that is suitable for an international dialogue on what we could expect to do to reduce the problem. Finally, let me say: Ågot Valle and several others were at the Sudan Conference, which was held in Oslo 14 days ago, about the peace process in Sudan. It illustrated the problems we have with women's issues in peace processes. We don't solve the problems by pretending they don't exist. We were the ones who had to take care of and bring women from Sudan in there. There was no strong desire from the parties to the conflict to put women's issues actively on the agenda. There are very few of the central leaders on some of the sides of the conflict that are women, and there are probably even fewer of the leading peace negotiators who are women. When I was in the peace process in Sri Lanka for many years, there were no central women in that peace process, except the president of Sri Lanka. This was true either of the parties to the conflict or of the dealer. Here's a lot to do. Norway organises a major international conference for peace brokers each June. We have had considerable problems finding women who have played a central enough role in peace processes around the globe to be natural participants at such a conference. So I'm not talking about the many women who are supporters of peace processes that are active in non-governmental organisations. There's a lot of women who make a fantastic effort there, but inside the innermost core of the peace processes, where the military and other decisive decisions are made, there are few women. I think Norway will be able to do more to get more women out of these positions. Let me just say in the end that the Danish Minister for Development, Ulla Tørnes, has taken an initiative for which I have signed up as one of the strongest supporters. It's getting the so-called Millennium Goal on Equality, Millennium Goal No. Let's get three more forward. There's been a tendency to be one of the forgotten millennial goals. She has gained a broad international commitment from both politics and business to contribute to the Millennium Goal, and from the Norwegian side we are doing what we can to support the Danish initiative in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e409	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e413	I just want to pay attention to a country that goes from bad to worse, in my opinion. It's Nicaragua, which has abortion legislation that endangers both mother's and children's lives. This has become a constellation between a radical president and former revolutionist, Ortega, and the Catholic Church. There is a country without sex education, where the number of teenage pregnancies is enormous, and where the challenge for young girls and women is depressing. I visited the country myself in January and thought it was despairing. Norway is an aid operator. We're in dialogue with the authorities. How can we change this desperate situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e420	I have to admit, I'm not a specialist in Nicaragua. It aroused considerable international amazement, as Morten Höglund said, when Daniel Ortega, possibly to win the election, in the final phase of the election campaign launched himself as a particularly restrictive politician when it came to abortion. The alliance seen in Nicaragua, as it is also mentioned here, between a strong, conservative church and a seemingly left-wing president, is unusual on an international scale. Let me suggest that on the basis of what Morten Höglund is now presenting, I contact our ambassador in Nicaragua to discuss with him whether there are ways Norway can positively influence policy. It's not always like a raised index finger is the right way. At least I'm going to discuss with him whether there are ways we can contribute to finding a solution to what we're dealing with.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e427	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e430	I would first like to thank the case rapporteur for an excellent work on this big message. I am very proud of a government that has submitted a message to the Stortinget stating that we must contribute to women being given the opportunity to take their rightful place in the development processes, and taking seriously that the Millennium Goals can never be achieved without changing the everyday life and the life situation of girls and women. Two thirds of the world's poor are women, who also underlined Anette Trettebergstien and Ågot Valle. I want to add what Valle and Trettebergstien have also said, that the government parties will put in again the 16 million. kr to the woman’s allocation cut to the revised national budget. Then I am very pleased that it was the representatives of the government parties in the Foreign Affairs Committee who insisted that the Women's Rights Assistance Action Plan, which was presented on 8 March last, I think it was, should be turned into a big message - first of all Ågot Valle, Anette Trettebergstuen and I ourselves. I can assure the President that there is a lot of rigidity in such a woman’s life, especially when it comes to putting women at the centre of development policy. I also want to commend the other parties that have participated in this. Norway has taken on specific responsibilities for the Millennium Goals 4 and 5 - reducing infant mortality and reducing the risk of death in pregnancy. There are areas in the world where the most dangerous days in life are the day you are born, and the day you, if you are a woman, create life by putting children into the world. While Angola is a nation of oil money flowing into a few, the birthplaces in Luanda, the capital, are among the worst in the world. This is a development paradox, but we don't want it like this. That is why it is necessary to focus on women in development policy. And as the Committee stresses, there has been far too poor follow-up of women and gender issues in both Norwegian and international development policies. The Committee points out that there is a need to enhance the competence of all parties involved in development cooperation and in humanitarian aid, national and global, public authorities and civil society. Therefore, both integrated actions and targeted activities for women are needed. In 1983, I was an information assistant in the Norwegian Folkehelp's TV collection «Action Human World». In a paper I edited about women, I wrote among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘In all societies, regardless of the economic or political system, women are worse off than men. No matter what starting point we take or what living conditions variable we choose: the women are at the bottom of all the statistics. The lower the social status, the harder the women's lives. They represent the poorest of the poor. Today, women constitute the great, poor masses in developing countries, those whom development aid has not reached, the masses that have never heard of North-South negotiations or international women's conferences.» So this is 25 years ago. It could, at least almost, have been written exactly the same way today. Whatever economic and social development we have in a society, women are actually at the bottom of the social ladder, exposed to social, economic, political and cultural oppression, but that doesn't mean it's not going forward. I want to refer to what the council said about the daily, nitite work, and that basically it doesn't go from bad to worse. Today’s big news is the first of its kind in Norway, but in fact it is also true that no country is so commonly compared to us, nor has it produced a similar document. It may be said that Norway has a special responsibility - the status and role of women in Norwegian society are in many ways in a special position internationally. There is again the result of the decade's struggle for equality in the direction of the women's movements and the political parties. This is an area where Norway has a high level of credit. Therefore, our voice is also heard when we consider the situation of women in a development context. Finally, let me mention two areas in the message that I think are particularly important. Others have been involved in these fields before, so I'm not going to do this far. First, women's sexual and reproductive health: this is about everything from being able to put children into the world without risking life, to the right to safe abortions, i.e., no to knitting pinnails. It's about the right not to be sexually mutilated, and about the right to determine your own sexuality and body. All of this is also important in the context of the Millennium Goals. I must commend the representative, Mr Höglund, who took up abortion legislation in Nicaragua. It is a very frightening development we see in some countries if we also see this in connection with the lack of sexual education and a very large proportion of teenage births and teen pregnancy. The second thing I think is very important is the follow-up to UN Resolution 1325, which concerns: less violence against women in war ensures women's participation in peacebuilding activities of women's participation in peacekeeping operations in the decision-making bodies that decide on security policy issues As a member of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, where we have finally got this on the agenda, I can say that in particular the last point is actually also very important. There must also be girls where security policy decisions are made. At the end of the day, the former prime minister and councillor Sissel Rønbeck called the oppression of women and the lack of equality here home to the ‘long ear’. Today, it is well relevant to say that: girls who are female mutilators who are coerced women who risk life when they put children to the world women who are exposed to prostitution and trafficking girls who are denied education women who are constantly exposed to violence women with the long, heavy working days are the ones who today notice this long earache. That's our challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e502	Let me start by thanking the case rapporteur, Mr Ågot Valle, for a very good piece of work. She has an exceptional commitment to women and their woes and well here at home and internationally, and she is clear, rightly, proud of this message. We are also the others in the Norwegian Parliament, not least we who have the background from the red-green ones. I am very proud that the Government has submitted a communication on women's rights and gender equality in development policy. Thus, we continue the work that the nation of Norway started at home several decades ago. Of course, we should not teach the world how to treat women, but we have solid experiences in gender equality that we can share with others. The government moves wisely when it says that the good thing must be promoted with speed and understanding, and that sometimes the tone must be low. I agree. However, it must never be that our own interests become crucial to whether we say off or tens. It must never be that we roar or look through our fingers because of who we're talking to or about. It must in any case be the case - in this case women's rights - that must be decisive. Some will be able to claim, rightly, that we are better at focusing on and addressing difficult issues - including lack of legal certainty for women and other suffering they have to undergo - in some countries more than in others. For example, we are much better at focusing on violations of human rights in China than in Israel. We are very strict in the tone as regards the opposition's condition in Iran -- and rightly so -- at the same time, we may be short on the guantanamo prisoners. Women have special needs in war and conflict. Such an example is the situation of women in Indian-controlled Kashmir. There are shared opinions as to whether there are 700,000 or 400,000 Indian paramilitary and military forces in the state. But everyone agrees that the conflict and military presence have meant great suffering for women in Kashmir. Amnesty International has no access to the valley. You might want to ask yourself why. However, other human rights groups estimate that a place between 7 000 and 10 000 women have been raped in the valley since 1989 - the vast majority of government forces, it is claimed. A place between 17 000 and 22,000 women have become widowed in the same period. Poverty as a result of the conflict affects women the most. There have been several people around before me. In a relatively underdeveloped part of the world, these women in Kashmir thus have to live without their husbands, who were perhaps the only income-bearing in the family. The conflict between the Kashmiri and the Indian Government has lasted for over 60 years. It should be resolved by peaceful means. We should help to solve it quickly. But violence against women in Kashmir must cease immediately. We must all be able to agree on this, and the message must be conveyed. In this context, it is important that both women are given special consideration in the conflict and that they be involved in defining the peace to be created. UN Security Council Resolution 1325 of 2000 on women, peace and security gives women the right to participate in both peace negotiations and post-conflict reconstruction. Historically, this perspective of peace building has been down-priority, but through Security Council Resolution 1325, we have established a strong global focus on this. SV and the Government take this perspective very seriously, and our action plan to meet women’s rights in peace and conflict is therefore very progressive and good. In order for women to enjoy the protection, legal certainty and peace they claim, these rights must also be valued by their own government. We have to make sure that women get involved in development, so that they can realize themselves, take education, work and make sure that there is no more harassment from their own people. We must find out that a peace that does not take women's situation into account is also not sustainable. Peace is a fundamental condition of human rights - a peace women should be involved in both creating and carrying. It cannot be expected that the peace will be very long in 50 p.m., perhaps more, of those who will carry this peace, have not been allowed to participate and decide how it should be. The government and the Minister for Development have an important and demanding task ahead of him, but he has the positive forces of the whole world behind him. Together, we're going to lift women's rights all over the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e524	I'm just like most speakers here -- I think I've heard it -- very proud that you've got a message like this in place. I would also like to express that what has happened here is very good. I was impressed when I read the settings and saw the extensive work that had been done with comments. It was almost a message of its own. In Nybakk's contributions, it was revealed that here we have another example of how important it is for women to participate and have power. That it's this womanry that has helped to get this in place, it doesn't matter any less. It's almost an emphasis on the whole message itself. Women's rights and equality are some of the main areas of government intervention. I think that's very good. I think it is strong when it is expressed that this government believes that women's efforts and women's rights are crucial to reaching the vision for the future of the world contained in the UN's Millennium Declaration. I believe many of us, at least when you read these goals, view this as a matter of course, but the truth is that in many places in the world it's not. I think it is good that the Storting now collectively joins in to this and has done this work to get so many common comments in place. Clearly, we have major challenges in achieving the UN’s Millennium Goals, perhaps especially in areas where Norway has taken special responsibility, namely maternal mortality and infant mortality. Women's rights and equality shall have a major place in Norwegian development policy and have also had it in recent years. But it's, as the representative Trettebergstien also said, very powerful forces that you fight in many areas. The report says that in many areas one must hurry slowly, and that one must take into account or ensure that one does not close doors and close for cooperation where one is in the process. I would nevertheless like to express my opinion that this should not be a kind of sleep cushion, that we should not resort to this, that here we are in a situation where we must proceed slowly. Even if you were to have that strategy, it's important when we meet partners or others that you can assume don't have the same opinions as us, to always remember to be clear and clear. As an active member of the AUF, I have had the pleasure of participating in many democratic projects around the world, including: in Uganda and Palestine. There I have seen for myself how important it is for women to participate - to comment on one of the disagreements in the setting - and how important it is for women to be quotad. When we arranged meetings and seminars, it was obvious that the AUF's equality policy was to be based on that at least 40 pst. of one sex should be represented. As a result, women had to participate, and organisations with whom we worked had to strive to find good female representatives from different areas of the country when we were going to have seminars. I think what we've seen is that women have a much greater willingness to criticize the society in which they themselves live. I think this is about not being bound to the same degree as men, who traditionally have the power of these societies, by the same structures of power. They're not part of the male apparatus of power, so they have a lot easier also to be able to criticise it and question it. Another thing that many have mentioned, and as I would like to stress, is that women's sexual rights and reproductive health, lack of access to prevention and safe, self-determined abortion are definitely some of the major problems. Insecure abortions must be replaced by lawful and safe abortions. I think it's scary when the message describes this as one of the areas where you're really working in the back. I also find it difficult to say clearly that one of the negative forces here is the policy that the United States is pursuing towards many developing countries, where abortion projects are not supported and prevention projects are not supported, because policy is about abstinence. You might say that abstinence is a theoretical possibility for family planning, but it's not, I don't think, a particularly practical opportunity. You can also see that on the birth figures. Women's rights are also important in our neighbourhoods. Countries such as Italy, Poland, Latvia and Lithuania, which are forces within the EU, call for a negative reduction in women’s rights. I believe that this can also have negative consequences for the policies pursued in the rest of the world, if it is no longer to be such that Europe is a positive force for the development of women's rights. Otherwise, I just want to join in what many others have said. - I'm looking at the clock here. When you first start talking about these issues, there's a lot you should have said. I will end by saying that I really knew first how taboo this topic is in the world, when I was given the opportunity to attend the UN General Assembly last autumn. I attended several meetings on women's rights - reproductive health, maternal and infant mortality, etc. - where the debate was only about clean health measures, i.e. good hospitals, feeding rooms and that kind of thing. It was quite obvious that everyone steered away from talking about prevention and abortion, because so strong forces in the world don't want to talk about it. They are trying to shut it off from the public debate, but then we have to be a clear and strong voice. At the end of the day, I just want to stress what the representative of Trettebergstien said, that this is not just about women's rights. This is also about gender equality, and gender equality also for other minorities who have problems getting through in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e552	I will first join the honor given, both to the Government, to the President, Ågot Valle, and to the entire committee. It has been very nice to sit and listen to the posts that have been so far. Here it has been said very much wisely. So this is the first message of its kind here to land. It is not similar in comparable countries. So let's hope that more now can inspire. There is clear talk when the Government says that the lack of follow-up to women’s and gender equality issues is one of the major omissions of Norwegian and international development policies, and that Norway should speak where others find it easiest to remain silent. That's something we in SV support 100 pst. There are enough areas to take off, enough of the areas where women are oppressed and discriminated against, unfortunately. Earlier today, at a meeting of the Parliamentary Network for the Rights of the Child of the Storting, we received one example. We had asked Redd Barna to tell us about the consequences of the natural disasters in Burma and China for children in particular. We wanted to know what is being done to deal with the abuse of children by UN soldiers and aid workers. The example we heard from Mozambique is not unique, but it is just as cruel and unfortunately representative of what many young women experience. A mother came to Red Children in Mozambique earlier this year and asked for help. Her 14-year-old daughter was bleeding in the heel after a failed illegal abortion for five months. She cared for her little siblings, seven in number, by prostitution for UN soldiers. This shows several things. The need to settle the positions of UN soldiers is one side. There has also been a proposal to establish a separate unit in the UN to ensure that abuse problems are taken seriously, because this is not the case in the UN so far. The need to provide access to school and health services for girls is another aspect of this issue. Reproductive rights, the right to decide over your own body, to gain control and power over your own life is also a side. In addition, we could say a lot about the right to legal and safe abortions, also seen in the light of, among other things. the experience of Nicaragua, which was taken up in place of Morten Høglund and several others. In Nicaragua, it has now been decided that no one, regardless of whether it is a low age, whether it is a rape, whether it is a risk of their own life, will have an abortion. At the other end of the scale, we know that there is probably a female deficit in the world of up to a hundred million due to selective abortions and partly also biotechnology. 80 pst. of the world's poor are women and their children. As a member of the Parliamentary Network of the Stortinge for Children's Rights, I would like to underline the child perspective. When women are discriminated against and oppressed or subjected to violence and abuse, children are also affected. Then it is easy to forget that children are not attached to their mothers or fathers. They are independent individuals with independent rights. Children have their own human rights convention. We must never forget that. We have also had experience at home in Norway from, for example, Norway. the own development and recognition of crisis centres, which may be worth reminding ourselves. Children shall be heard, taken seriously and listened to and assisted. I stress this today in this debate, because policies relating to women also have the greatest impact on children. We know that girls are particularly vulnerable and need a special focus. I fully agree with all those who have pointed out that the world's women are essentially not victims. It's e.g. worth recalling that the movement Support Centre against Incest here in Norway itself wants to use the term ‘exposed’ instead of the term ‘victim’, which often gives associations to the passive and auxiliary need. Victims also have resources, provided that the community around is conscious of asking for them and supporting them through Empowerment Strategies. A big danger is also that we create images of ourselves and the others, the others who need help from us, we please in the rich part of the world. We must maintain solidarity in terms of charity strategies. We have to hold on to the equivalence, respect and humility. We have a lot to learn from each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e569	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3442]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e587	The starting point for this interpellation is the World Bank's alarming announcement that 100 million people in poor U.S. countries are threatened by increasing poverty and hunger. In some countries, as in Ethiopia these days, drought has destroyed crops and led large numbers of people into acute starvation. In a number of other countries, significant increases in food prices have led to serious social unrest and conflict. The interpellation concludes with a question about a Norwegian answer to this situation: ‘Does the Government intend to take exceptional measures to prevent a world-poor famine?’ There are a number of reasons behind the sudden increase in food prices. One of them is strong growth in the use of biofuels, which captures both food products and large agricultural areas. The representative of Vallersnes was early on focusing on this problem, that ‘biofuels will not feed the hunger’, in an interview that we discussed on 8 May. I would like to take this opportunity to thank my colleague, Mr Vallersnes, for promoting this interpellation, which contributed to important clarifications not least on the criteria to be met for the sustainability and usefulness of biofuels in climate policy. What I want it to focus on in today's interpellation is what we can do to help those who are affected by the food crisis in the poor part of the world. In recent years, the number of people in absolute poverty has been reduced. Now evolution can turn around. It's not primarily because storms, such as drought or cyclones, destroy the crops, but this too creates major crises, as we've seen in the last of the cyclone-capped Burma. We now also receive alarming messages from the drought - stricken Ethiopia. The new aspect is the explosion in food prices. According to the World Bank, increased food prices can send over 100 million people into absolute poverty and severe malnutrition. Others want to take the kids out of school for the family to live. For the most vulnerable, it can mean hunger and, in the worst case, death. For the first time in 30 years, there are now food riots in several places in the world at the same time - from Haiti to Cameroon and Indonesia. The reason is the dramatic growth in food prices. The UN Food Organisation says that this crisis is the greatest they have ever faced since the organisation was established. Norway has a special responsibility. We've been making a lot of money on some of the things that contribute most to the crisis for years, namely, the increased oil prices. Now we also benefit greatly from poor country farmers through the increased fertiliser prices, as Yara's recent record results show with all manner of clarity. From the Christian People's Party we have repeatedly called for a stronger Norwegian response to this crisis situation. The government’s actions are disproportionate to the challenges. But let me give you credit for what's going on. The food aid promised to be 100 million. kr is a positive first step. But we need more. In my view, the government should take the initiative of a new deal for those who are now threatened by malnutrition and poverty. Tackling measures and reforms can improve the capacity to deal with the crisis. Firstly, I want the Government to provide much more resources to strengthen food security, especially in the most vulnerable countries. Norway should also take the initiative to reform the UN Food Programme. The UN and other actors must contribute to the development of new social security programmes, including: for the poor in the cities. The forms of support need to be more demanding and thus stimulate local agricultural production in developing countries, as we have seen that the Minister for Development has underlined. More robust food stocks are needed to better manage market fluctuations and strengthen food security in vulnerable regions, such as the United States and Japan. The UN Food Safety Special Rapporteur has pointed out. Secondly, there is a need for renewal and stricter requirements for biofuels policy, as we were well informed in the recent debate on the interpellation of Vallersnes. The quantity of maize to be used to fill a SUV tank with biofuels may be fed to one person for one year. American cars are now burning enough corn to cover the entire import needs of the 82 poor countries that the UN food programme says are threatened by food shortages. The share of US grain production going to fuel only increases. Countries that Germany plans to use high quantities of wheat for biofuels for the autumn. This isn't going to work. Food's on the plate, not on the tank! The UN, the World Bank, the OECD and Oxfam all agree that the biofuel policy of rich countries has made worse. It has taken land out of food production and contributed to increased prices. The food program believes it has contributed 10 pst. by the price increase, the IMF says 20 pst. Anyway, it's an important contributor. For a poor family in the Third World living on the edge of the plunge in food and nutrition, an increase of 10 pst is even noticed. on the body. It could mean the difference between hungry and saturated children. When biofuel production does not go beyond existing food soils, challenges related to the clearing of new land are created. Many forms of biofuel production destroy forests, grasslands and wetlands, releasing large amounts of CO2. New research shows that biofuels based on maize and soya are about twice as climate-friendly as petrol. Biofuel integration requires good certification arrangements. I therefore welcome today's SFT's message, which I also understood the Government is agreeing to, to proceed with caution and to ensure that good certification arrangements are in place. I hope that the European certification systems will be good enough, and that they will not be too much of a compromise product, where the strong business interests will dominate the outcome. I appreciate the positive signals that the Solheim Council gave during the debate on 8 May about the importance of certification. At the same time, action on the generation of second-generation biofuels is important, such as: can use food waste, forest waste and seaweed as feedstock. We are concerned about this precisely because sustainable biofuels that do not contribute to increased food prices are an important part of the response to the climate challenge. Thirdly, we need more agricultural aid for poor countries. The Bondevik II government presented an ambitious action plan for agricultural development in development policy. After the government change, the plan has not been followed up as provided by the majority of the population. I hope the Council of State can give other signals on this today. The technical advice goes very clearly in the direction that this should be followed up, and a joint foreign committee has repeatedly asked for agricultural assistance to be stepped up during this process and for the action plan to be followed up. Last autumn, a unanimous foreign committee asked for this. My impression -- I hope it can be corrected -- is that little or nothing has happened in relation to the follow-up to this. I hope that the responsible State Council today will be able to provide concrete news and concrete details of how the Government will follow up the unanimous recommendations of the Stortinget regarding agricultural aid. So far, I have focused on three follow-up areas: firstly, increased food aid and improved food security; secondly, reform of the biofuel policy; and thirdly, stepping up long-term aid for agricultural development and food production. We see the riots. We know who's hit by the food price -- it's the poorest. We know the consequences of malnutrition and hunger. It's a distress--and an injustice-- that doesn't hit us ourselves. In Norway, we foam the cream in the form of greatly increased revenues from sky-high oil and fertilizer prices. It gives us a responsibility to give a strong and solidarity handshake to those who are threatened by hunger. Exceptional measures are required. And it's urgent. I am excited to receive an update from the Council of State on how the Government is now following up both in international forums and in bilateral contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e631	Let me first thank the interpellant for an important interpellant, which also very well follows up the discussion we had on the basis of Finn Martin Vallersnes’ interpellation for a while back. Last weekend I was in Australia, in Australia's drought zones. I think they illustrate very well the relationship between climate change and food security in the world. There are places that have been among the world's grain chamber, where it is now incredibly dry. Just because Australia distributes the small water they have, with impressive precision and impressive state control, they get at all some significant agricultural production. Australia has never had it so dry. The last three years have been the driest Australia ever since measurements began in 1890. Although no one knows the precise relationship between international climate change and drought in Australia, at least I did not meet a single expert who thought anything other than that what you saw was an acute drought, yes, but within a generally downward trend towards a drier weather, more salt content in the soil and a much more difficult ecological situation in Australia. What is the individual farmer's response to this? It's natural, to look for products that can withstand a more dry climate and that can make more sense in a more dry climate, to survive at all. In short, it means the transition from rice and wheat to wine and almonds. Because you get a far higher profit on the same area in a more dry climate if you produce wine than if you produce rice. So once again, how things happen locally in Australia affect the international market, where rice is the raw material that has risen most in price -- at least of food -- in recent years. So the relationship between climate and food price increase should not be underestimated, even if no one can say on the dot how close that relationship is. We went into the debate after Vallersnes’ interpellation on what the reasons might be for food price increases, but let me just add one moment to what was said there. Because if you go more closely into the figures in countries like China and India and Africa, you can see that while there are, for example, India. is, above all, a general growth in all forms of consumption as a result of the richer country, in China what has also been seen in us is a drastic change in the pattern of consumption. While in India there is about the same increase in meat consumption as in direct consumption of cereal products etc., in China there is a dramatic much higher growth in the consumption of meat and dairy products versus the direct consumption of cereals. What we see then is the sum of what affects the world, that many countries get richer and thus can eat more of everything. But some countries have now become so rich that a significant number of people can move from one type of diet to another. Of course, the sum of this becomes a strong pressure on prices. Next week there is a big meeting about the international food crisis in Rome. This is a meeting that only six months ago was considered to be a relatively inconvenient UN meeting. With all due respect, there was no big sign either of state councils or heads of state, while now it seems to be a large number of -- many dozens -- heads of state coming, and a selection of state councils, from all over the world. And the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Ban Ki-moon, will be personally in charge of the meeting. So it's gone from being an important but not so important meeting to the very central forum. What I want to emphasize, as I see it now, at that meeting in Norway, is primarily three aspects: One is the link between climate change and food security. If we do not manage effectively to combat climate change, we will drastically reinforce the problems of food. The second is the significant market failure that we have seen in Africa, which actually leads African countries to produce less, not more, agricultural products now, while Asia has the exact opposite trend. And more than that, if you go below the numbers, there's a dramatic difference. Asian countries have almost no increase in the land used for agricultural production, but a substantial increase in production, while in Africa there is a significant increase in the land entering agricultural production, while there is a decrease in production. So when you increase the area while you get less output, it's obviously a drastically reduced agricultural productivity. There is a need for a drastic conversion of Africa's agriculture, in other words. And the third, which was also the interpellant, is the acute situation some states will face in the intersection of security, the potential for war and conflict and food insecurity. Let me then address the concrete proposals that the interpellant has made. He demanded a ‘New Deal’ for international food security and a Norwegian contribution to it. First, he asks for more money. Yes, but let's not forget that the main answers to the food security problem are not money, but politics, and that the most important thing for agricultural production is not necessarily what happens directly in it, but everything that happens around it. As I was in the last time, if it's not a port that works in Dar-es-Salaam, you don't get fertilizer enough to create a more productive agriculture in Tanzania. If there are no roads to bring fertilizer to the manufacturer, it will not be found. However, if there are no roads from the manufacturer to any market, they do not sell their goods - and therefore no incentive to increase production. Of course, Norwegian forestry is essential for agricultural production, including: because it is essential for biodiversity, which can provide long-term inputs to agriculture. Education is, of course, essential for agriculture, because educated people, a trained peasantry, who can more, of course, use new, more productive ways of farming faster. So we must not focus closely on money for agriculture, but look at agriculture in the broad context of development. But otherwise, I agree. The representative also asks for reforms in the World Food Programme. Yes, Norway has been a strong driver. That's also why we didn't increase the appropriations last year for the World Food Programme, just to demand those changes. Now it's really important, positive things going on in the organization. If you look at where the World Food Programme today buys its products, Uganda is no. 1 on that list. There is also a long list of poor countries where you buy your goods, so that the original impression of an organization dumping American surplus grain on poor African markets is no longer a comprehensive picture of the organization, even though it is American-led. So there's been positive changes here, but let's encourage their continuation. Let us also encourage close cooperation between the World Food Programme and the other two food agencies, FAO and IFAD, to use the abbreviations. The interpellant also wanted a close link between the issue of security, i.e. military state security, and food issues. I think that paying out cash almost always is better than distributing food directly, and that it will also be the most important tool to strengthen states that can get into trouble. The interpellant wants to address Norwegian biofuel policy in depth. I share that view. Of course, the attitude that comes from the state pollution control system today is going to go through thoroughly from the government. We want to engage in dialogue with our partners in the climate agreement. It was just supposed to be missing-- this is part of the climate agreement, and we're of course going to engage in dialogue with the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left to look at what's the natural interference requirement. The other two elements of what comes from the SFT, we believe that we are fully in agreement, namely a strong incentive for the rapid implementation of certification rules, which may be difficult to find strange. However, we need to influence the rules that come in the EU, and if the EU rules can also switch to a more global legislation on biofuels, nothing is better than that. Biofuels are a brilliant idea, to be promoted, but as with many other good ideas, one must avoid the growth of it. So certification - yes. The second element, the rapid introduction of second generation biofuels based on agricultural waste or forest waste, I perceive that there is also full consensus in the Storting, and we have to do what we can to get to it quickly. Then we're going to look at the exact integration requirements we're going to promote for 2008 and 2009 based on the setting that SFT comes with, but in the government-opposition dialogue. Let me just say in the end that one of the things that I'm putting the greatest emphasis on is public-private cooperation that we're now working on with Yara and with Jeffrey Sachs and Kofi Annan, which has been the driving force in the work of a global system for an African green revolution. However, a Norwegian contribution under this framework could be cooperation with Yara to promote policies to remove the obstacles that could increase productivity in African agriculture. African agriculture cannot continue to reduce its productivity when productivity increases almost anywhere else on the globe.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e665	Let me first thank the Council of State for a very timely response. I am also pleased that the Council of States went on to specify the Norwegian positions within the important international decisions that will be in a short time, and I will go into some of the shades. We can now, among other things: reports from Ethiopia on, as I mentioned, the threat of large-scale hunger and malnutrition. Nutrition analyses from the country show alarming and increasing signs of malnutrition among children. UNICEF has on its side asked for 20 million. US dollars for emergency rations, but only received 5 pst. of this so far. The UN says that donors do not respond, because attention is directed to natural disasters in Burma and China. I think it is a very timely illustration of an emergency situation, to which I would like to hear the comment of the Council of State. It is absolutely in place with the support of these countries in the unfathomable tragedies that occur there. That's why I mean, and that's my main message, that we have to have two thoughts in our head at the same time, we have to think about both money and politics. The Council of State included this dichotomy in its answer. There is a need for - and it is not possible to get out of - emergency aid and increased transfers to, among other things. United Nations Food Programme. However, in the longer term, and in countries that already have a certain social safety network, further action is needed. For traditional food distribution, the State Council has the disadvantage of undermining local food production. Demand for local food is weakened, thereby also reducing the potential of a viable local agricultural sector that can provide food self-sufficiency in the longer term. The government should therefore call for the reform of the UN Food Organisation, and it confirms to the Council that it is committed to and has been involved in, for example. by extending its mandate to other forms of long-term food aid which may stimulate rather than weaken local agricultural production. The representative Holten Hemdal will come closer to the agricultural side of this commitment from our side. My question in the follow-up is whether the Council of States will call for the UN Food Programme to be extended to support new and longer-term food programmes that stimulate local agriculture. To a greater extent than in the past, Norway will use Norwegian aid to support transfers of funds to poor families in order to ensure that families provide nutrition, school and health services to their children, in a way such as: Mexico and Brazil have had very good experiences?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e676	I share the representative's concern about what we often see, namely that some crises that - quite correctly - are high in the media's attention have been easy to overshadow the others. I say, as a remark a little bit on the page, that the amazingly different response that China and Burma - Myanmar - have shown to the two gigantic crises that the two countries have now been in, is well the best international evidence on the benefit of an engagement policy and helping to open up a country. China reacted 30 years ago exactly as Burma today does -- there were earthquakes in China in 1976. China was probably even more closed then than what Burma is today. The fact that the whole world is engaged with China, talking to China, relates to China, that China has got a big, wide middle class, has made China respond and react to the earthquake in a way that almost every country in the world is taking off its hat. It is important to draw such lessons as well. I share the positive considerations about the programmes that include: Brazil's on its way. The Bolsa Familia programme is the world's largest social policy programme. It attracts great, international, positive attention and is a programme in which there is just a cash link with families with responsibilities, for example. to bring the children to school. That's something we like to help support, but we also like to contribute, in cooperation with the Brazilian authorities, to creating even more attention to the idea. As for emergency aid and what the World Food Programme should engage in, I would like to take the views of the interpellant. The only contradiction I have is that we have to look closely at what the individual parts of the United Nations system are going to do, because there is a tendency that all UN organizations want to do everything. It's going to be a worse system than when there's a clear worksharing that shows who has to do what. With that reservation, I would like a positive response to the idea of what the World Food Programme should do. But we should continue to be a clear driver of reform. Let me also mention one last concrete thing. Norway contributed two years ago to the so-called Exogenous Shocks Facility, the ESF, in the International Monetary Fund. It was intended to help countries that were in an emergency situation as a result of, for example, increased oil price or natural disaster. So far, not one dollar or one dollar has been paid out of that fund. We have considered contacting the IMF and demanding money back, since they have not been used, but instead we have contacted the IMF and demanded that the IMF amend this fund, so that it can be used to assist countries that are experiencing acute payment problems as a result of increased food prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e687	Let me first thank the representative Højbräten for bringing up a very topical topic. At the same time, I would like to thank the representative Vallersnes for bringing up almost the same topic in an interview on 8 May. This means that we now have an opportunity to really discuss this issue in a thorough manner, and an important issue cannot be debated too often. This is about lack of food. These are rising food prices that have led to insurrections and demonstrations in several parts of the world, and which many now believe threaten the Millennium Goals, among others. halving poverty by 2015. Today, the Millennium Goals are the basis of all our development work, and I also refer to the previous debate. Let me do a simple rewrite of what the Council of State said in a previous statement: It's always been poverty -- our generation is the first one who has the means to do something with it, but it's the will it stands on. So I would like to say that the increase in food prices is a complex problem, and I think that was very clear in the interpellation with Vallersnes. When the production of biofuels contributes only to 10 pst. of the increase in prices, and only seizures of 1 pst. of the arable land of the world, this can hardly be the main cause of this food crisis. Let me also refer to the Council's response, about growth in consumption, change in consumption, climate -- not least -- and, of course, too low food production and too low productivity. The debate is important, and let us hope it can contribute to more systematic development in order to ensure increased food production and productivity and to improve self-sufficiency in poor countries, among others. in Africa. It will necessitate reforms for poverty-oriented agricultural development, food security, strengthening women’s rights and the right of use and ownership of land and water by poor people. There shall be a FAO meeting on 3 June in which the Council of State shall be present. I think it's important to work to find a common plan for how to deal with crises, especially in vulnerable countries. It will be to look at food supply, conflict, peace and reconciliation, among others. Then, as the Council of State said, we need to increase productivity primarily in Africa and set ourselves the goal of getting to a green revolution. It is true, as was also stressed in the previous debate, that African farmers have been out-competitive on the domestic market because cheap and subsidised food from Europe and the United States has been dumped. As if it were not enough - misunderstood food aid has led to local farmers not having sold their products. I mentioned in my post on 8 May Niger, where international media proclaimed a food crisis that was probably not there either, but this led to a number of relief organizations pouring food into the country. As a result, the local farmers did not receive a provision for their food on the markets and simply shut down production. Food aid must only be used exceptionally and in acute emergency situations. I fully agree with the Council of State: he used the word “cash”, and cash, money, is much better to provide assistance in such situations so that the needy themselves can buy the food that is needed. We also need a global food security policy to stimulate local food production and strengthen food security in vulnerable regions. So even though food prices are rising, perhaps some rural areas benefit, because there are a lot of people living from agriculture, the problem, according to the UN has been, is that the majority of the population of developing countries will live in cities in 20 years. A development policy must also take account of urban poverty. The slum population in cities is very vulnerable to increased food prices, and there are already countries that actually subsidise food in urban areas. I think the High Bank mentioned the use of robust food stores to deal with crisis situations. It's something else that we too until recently had as part of our civil protection. Ultimately, this is about policy, about lasting structural changes that ensure development, and that we achieve the UN's Millennium Goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e713	I will also give tribute to the interpellant to address a very important topic, and I think it has been said very well in the debate so far. I'm not going to necessarily repeat it, but I'm going to focus on a little bit of other aspects. As for emergency aid and the danger of famine, I'm sure Norway will stand up, and I hope the world community will stand up. But as I said here, it's also important in how the help is given. One thing is that we don't dump food from the West, but if we buy food locally, it's important that we don't undermine local markets and local distribution. Therefore - as the representative Nybakk was in and as others have been in it - this can be important in giving cash to use the existing markets and distribution systems. Because it is not that there is always a shortage of food, but the price has become too high. And here it seems that many -- also, we get hope, beyond the borders of Norway -- have learned from past mistakes. Then I think it was very gratifying that the Council of States spent a lot of time talking about the need for reform in African agriculture. Because we see, as the Council of State was concerned, that there is a decrease in production. Here, from our point of view, we want to focus on the high customs barriers. Usually we've talked about high customs barriers on food, but here there are high customs barriers not just on food, but for example. on fertilisers and agricultural machinery - all you need to have a modern, functioning agriculture. There is no reason, at least from our point of view, that these countries that are struggling to feed their own people should have these rates of duty. The use of fertilisers in Africa is on average one tenth of what it is in OECD countries. It has something to say about how much food you can produce. And even though the agricultural land is large, it's a manual agricultural production, without much use of machines, nor the use of fertilisers. This is simply linked to a protectionist policy that needs to be stopped. Then you can discuss whether countries need to protect their own food production. I believe that this is not very sensible either, but protecting against the import of fertilisers works at least very negatively. I also believe that a stimulus and competition in food production would have been good. Competition generally contributes to better performance, and what we have seen is that the countries that protect their markets most often stagnate most. There are few incentives to produce, and the quality of the goods is often also worse than it could have been. Not least, there is a higher proportion of the population of African countries living in cities. They are hit very hard by high customs walls. 70 pst. of the world’s trade barriers are between poor countries. The customs barriers we have against the poor world are a huge problem, but the customs barriers between poor countries are at least as big a problem. So these things have to be taken into account in order to achieve exactly what the Council of State correctly pointed out: we have to do something that gives a completely different level of production in African agriculture. This won't necessarily just fix things. It's about competence, and it can be about investment. But unfortunately, we see that some governments that have tried to initiate measures - I could mention Nigeria as an example - have failed to get the money to reach the poorest farmers. On paper, the programmes have looked good, international NGOs and international aid countries have been able to support them, but the beneficiaries have simply not seen much about the money. So once again, the way you do this is very important because if it produces results. But with the kind of high thinking going on here, which will take place at the FAO meeting, etc., we might get a new boost, not least for African agriculture, which will mean a lot.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e732	It's been three weeks since the last time we discussed the topic in the last interpellation, and some people have wondered that it came up again. But let me say it this way, as others have also been about: this is such an important topic for so many around the globe that we should really discuss it at regular intervals. I think today's debate already shows that we're further developing part of what we had up last time, so it's valuable. For my part, I want to refer to the posts I had on May 8th, and do not repeat the analysis that I was based on then. However, as stated at the time, it is obvious, as many people are concerned, that short-term measures are needed here for the hungry. That it can be more about money than about food to take into account local markets and local production, I think it's absolutely essential, and -- which maybe especially Høglund deepened instead -- that one is very aware of how the effect is of how one helps. But there is also talk of the long-term measures that are more structural, more political and focused on the causes. I asked some questions to the Council of State on 8 May, which was answered to some extent, but I would like to repeat some of it, because I think it might have deepened something. These included: a statement of what the Norwegian positions will be; ‘for both acute and structural measures at international level, when it comes to meeting the international community in a short period of time? Secondly, what Norwegian measures will a set of measures help to achieve those objectives?’ Looks like I'm getting unlimited speaking time here, President?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e746	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e749	Yeah, that's so sweet. And on the other hand, ‘The question is whether the Council of State agrees with the Right that agricultural development needs to be given a stronger priority in the aid budget.’ Yesterday, May 28th, a FAO report came out in front of the World Food Security Summit next week in Rome, to which the Council of State referred -- and we are very pleased that he is going to be present. In yesterday's report, the FAO calls for a double approach. Firstly, of course: to ensure that vulnerable groups do not starve in the short term. They define some of what ‘exposed groups’ are. Secondly, providing for a long-term rise in efforts to strengthen agriculture in order to counteract high and fluctuating prices. So one might ask, what is raising agriculture in the longer term? Several have been involved, including the Council of State. Clearly, there are many things to do. One of these is areas. We've been up to date, in the previous debate, that land that can be put into use has plenty of access in the world if it's set up a proper incentive policy. These include irrigation, technology, adapted and disease-resistant seed varieties, fertiliser access, access to local, regional and international markets. We have to face up to the fact that before one can enter the international market, one must have built up an experience and a quality of competence locally, so regionally, and then one can get out further. Obviously, there may be a difficult definition of how much and what types of protectionist measures one should accept in developing developing countries where they evolve from local to global markets, but here I think one must be willing to see something flexible about it, as long as it goes in the right direction. It is also about infrastructure to get the goods to and from, which the Council of State had to attend. I am left with the question of what the Government will contribute to Rome next week. The Council of State has indicated that he will contribute well with good analysis, but I may ask for something more about the measures that a Norwegian-based person might consider both proposing and joining in. And above all, the question is whether the Government will follow this up as a priority area in future development/aid budgets. So finally just a little comment on this very important point on which the Højbråten was concerned, on the mandate of the World Food Programme, and which the Council of State also commented on. I agree that it must be important, first of all, to develop mandates, but also to see it in the context of what the other organisations have of tasks. We have too many examples, as the Council of State said, that there is overlap, and that one goes a little on the other's bed - and that is at least ineffective. So here, there's a need for coordination. At least one must be able to expect that the part of the UN reform which is now concerned with the ‘One UN at country level’ must be able to deal with this in individual cases at country level.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e767	I think that both the interpellant and the state council had very important and interesting posts that highlight an important question. Also the fact that this is the second time in a short time we have this debate shows that there is an engagement in this hall. And there really needs to be a commitment to the poor of the world, because it's the poorest that are primarily hit by the food crisis. The fact that there is commitment also shows that the FAO meeting has a greater significance than it was going to have. The fact that the UN Secretary-General has set up a working group to look at food crises underlines the need for commitment. The situation of at least 850 million chronically undernourished food prices is serious. So now we hear that the new 100 million are at risk of life being degraded because of food shortages. As others have been asked, we see the result. There's social unrest, there's riots and the loss of opportunities because this food shortage and hunger primarily -- or especially -- hit kids hard. The interpellant was aware that we can imagine a development in which more children are taken out of school because the parents can't afford to send them there, or because the children have to do other things, and Marit Nybakk was concerned that it threatens the possibility of reaching the thousand-year targets. So, as many have said, and as we stressed in the previous discussion, there are many reasons for the food crisis. That is why more solutions need to be found. One important reason, which is also shown by the fact that there are now smaller food stores, is that there has been speculation in the food price. Another reason is the monopoly of food trade to a few multinational groups. There has been too little attention in the debate, I think. Furthermore, subsidisation of the use of agricultural land for the production of biofuels and a link between climate change and food crises. So I'd like to say a little bit about agriculture. When the committee was visiting the World Bank, we met Norway's representative there, who was also a member of the World Bank's board. He was very clear that agriculture had long been a priority in the work of the World Bank. It was not least because of pressure from the West that it had happened. So we have to admit that agricultural development has not been taken seriously enough in Norway’s development policy either. But there's been a trend, and the fact that you're looking at this again shows that it's possible to reverse that trend. Agriculture is very important for food security in many poor countries, and, as others have also said, the African farmer is usually a woman. In this way, we could lift much of what we said in the previous debate, into this debate. Food has become part of international trade on the same lines as other goods, and we see the result. Since the 1980s, the 50 poorest countries and developing countries, as a group, have gone from being net food exporters to net food importers. Thus, developing countries have increasingly been able to protect their own food production. I told you in the previous debate about Ghana, which has gone from having a large production of chicken and tomato to having to import the same products. It was not least because of two things: the requirement of the Bretton Woods institutions to stop subsidising, among other things. Fertilisers and dumping of subsidised food from the EU and the United States. I would like to point out that perhaps we should re-examine the old 1974 demand that the right to production for our own people also means political space for action. And then I want to highlight the right to water as a human right and the connection between peace, conflict, war and food production.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e785	First of all, I would like to thank the interpellant, who puts this important matter on the agenda. About 1 billion people live in extreme poverty in the world today, and three-quarters of them live and work in rural areas in developing countries. More than half of the extremely poor depend on agriculture and farm work for their livelihood. In the poorest countries, nearly 70 pst. primary industries — mainly agriculture. The production, further processing, transport and sale of agricultural products often constitute the main basis both for paid work and for the informal sector. Unfortunately, agricultural investment has been declining in many developing countries over the last decades, and many of the assistance provided by developed countries. This has had negative consequences in a number of areas. Negligation of agriculture has implications for both employment and food security. While overall food production has increased in the world over the last 20 years, production per year has increased. built-in in Africa - which the Council of State had in mind in its reply to today’s interpellant. The council also said that this will be some of his messages when he travels to Rome next week. He said that there is a need for a drastic change in agriculture in Africa, because without a strong commitment to agriculture in poor countries, it is difficult to see any long-term solutions to the food crisis. The International Agricultural Fund for Agricultural Development has concluded that poverty reduction cannot succeed without focusing on rural interventions. To reverse the negative trend, the Bondevik II government presented an action plan for agricultural development in developing countries. This action plan put support for the agricultural sector into a coherent context, focusing on policy reforms, industrial development, product quality, local markets, exports, rights and the environment - or as the Council of State says: we need to see everything that happens around agriculture, in the context, whether it is ports or roads. Yes - and therefore, on several occasions, a unanimous foreign committee has called for a more active follow-up to this action plan. Because you do agree on the overall picture, but unfortunately not quite on the instruments. My challenge to the Council of State in this debate is: What can the Council of State say about the follow-up to the present action plan? Has assistance to the agricultural sector increased or has it weakened in recent years? But perhaps even more important: what will follow-up be further? Can we now get a promise that agricultural aid will be increased in the context of the food crisis we are seeing on the stairs? Today, the SFT has presented its recommendation on the placing on the market requirements for biofuels. Both the inter-pellant and the state councils point out that rich countries’ greenhouse gas emissions contribute to drought and food production failures. In a press release today, the Council of State says that he wants to participate in the recommendations of the hearing bodies, including the SFT recommendation, and he says in today's debate that he will also have dialogue with our partners. On the part of the Christian People's Party, I would already like to stress that it is important that we have a reliable certification system that can demonstrate that the biofuels sold in Norway have a minimum of 50 p.p. climate benefit, that it does not result in loss of biodiversity, and that it does not result in loss of rainforest, wetlands or protected areas. The SFT today points to cooperation with the EU. Yes, there is no doubt that the EU may be ahead of us here, but there is no doubt that there are strong industrial interests that will influence these things in the EU. I have to confess that I am not quite sure that taking into account the environment and food prices will be crucial when the EU sets its framework for these different directives. For the Christian People's Party, this is absolutely vital, because we cannot be involved in a policy that does not take environmental considerations into account - that is also the case with the biofuels policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e806	I would also like to thank the High Commissioner for the initiative and follow up on what Mr Vallersnes has said. It's affordable, and I'm very happy that the opposition is active in this field, because it allows us to get a cross-political focus and a greater degree of consensus. In fact, as the representative Højbräten says, much more is threatened by poverty and hunger. The causes are complex. It's a very demanding situation. There are no simple solutions. Something can be done politically, something can be done economically, but there are also long structures that are crucial to what is happening. We agree on the cause of climate change. We agree on the eating habits. Eating habits are found in other countries, such as Norway, from potatoes to the inner file, only that in Norway it is more extreme. Some of us are used to eating what's on the plate when we're supplying the sea -- we might even be modern in Norway. It's also an opportunity to go along with the sea. We're in the middle of it going from porridge to farmed salmon, it goes from sheep meat to chicken. We know the context of the increased energy prices. Increased prices of stock oil also provide opportunities for increased prices of bio-oil, with its natural market implications. We also have a political ideology over quite many years that I will claim from my point of view is contributing to the situation in which we are living, an ideology based on the fact that the freest movement - the functionality of the market - is also going to take place in the field of food. There's a growing awareness that this might not be the case. I heard with interest from the representative, Höglund, who said that food prices are now at a level that is too high for many. I'm glad to hear that. It shows that there are limitations to the market mechanism in the food sector also in the camp of the Progress Party. It's good to hear that things happen. Norway’s role in food security: The Soria Moria Declaration states that all countries have the right to a policy that can ensure national food production for national consumption, or in another way: one must follow the internationally accepted guideline that each country is trying to follow, namely to ensure sufficient food production for its own inhabitants. Norway has a responsibility here. We have to make ourselves at least dependent on others. And just for information, I can mention that our imports of flour from the outside world have hardly been higher than it is this year. It's over 2 million bucks, if we were to use Norwegian soil for it. And the whole increase in Norwegian meat production occurs on imported flour. It's also a cross of thought. Food safety related to emergency stores has been mentioned here. In Norway, we had stockpiles, in their infancy, from 1810 to 1996. In 1996, ‘casher’ became out of the country, taking its income. Now we have a business warehouse of 15 days, which is very little to be rusted with when we are at the lowest production level. Then to the ethical positions in the matter. It should be that in Norway it is not ethically acceptable to have food on the tank. We all have opportunities to generate a technology so that we can support the production according to those we want to integrate biodiesel, and that we can provide the production based on second-generation biofuels. I am very pleased with the Government's position here, that at least food should not be produced on the idea in Norway. So for agricultural aid and the revitalisation of increased agricultural aid from Norway. On several occasions, the size has underlined the importance of an action plan on agricultural aid, and it is more urgent than ever. I get sick when strong support players on the red-green side in ever stronger layers of order are calling for action in this area. The content of the action plan is not least important. The experience from 1974 is that this is something far more than fertilizer. It's a question of seeing the social community as a whole, using local resources, seeing that soil is the use of soil, the gain of solar energy, having the great understanding of where fertilizers then become an important supplement. But it's not fertilizer that in itself is the solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e825	I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the interpellant for addressing this important and very topical question. It makes a strong impression when the UN warns that food prices can lead to hunger, war and refugee flows in the world. I am particularly concerned about the areas in the world where children live with chronic malnutrition. I believe that we are facing a major and complex problem here. It's complex because many relationships can help drive food prices up, and because we're dealing with both acute and longer-term conditions. Several others have also been mentioned in this debate. The interpellant points out in its question to the rich countries’ greenhouse gas emissions. They contribute to global warming, causing drought and food failure. In Australia - as the Council of State also mentioned - the problem of food production failure has occurred with great strength after many years of drought. Also in Africa and Asia there are many problems with drought or floods. Many suggest that climate change and extreme weather will become more frequent in the future and that this will make it more difficult to feed a growing population. The world's population was 2.5 billion in 1950, while the figure is expected to surface at about 10 billion in 2050. This means that in the future there will be many more mouths to saturation. It should be noted that the trend towards a higher standard of living in developing countries leads to a higher consumption of food, as others have also mentioned. At the same time, there is a distortion from the consumption of vegetable food for the consumption of meat. For example, a Chinese man ate 20 kg of meat in 1985, while he ate 50 kg in 2007. The consumption of meat is expected to increase rapidly - in China as in many other countries. As we know, a lot more land is required to produce meat than to produce the same amount of vegetable food. But we don't have to look all the way to China. In Norway, the production of feed for farmed fish requires four times as many proteins as we get from the fish we eat. I also want to mention that food is used to make biofuels. This is problematic if it is done on a large scale, as we know that one full biofuel tank corresponds to one person's consumption of grain for one year. Already today we see that in some countries there is an area conflict in the cultivation of food and cultivation, for example. sugar, maize and soya for fuel. In addition, there is widespread speculation about the placing on the market of raw materials. Batches of raw materials are held back to raise prices and increase profits. All of this is a relationship that helps drive up the prices of food, which will make it harder to feed a rapidly growing population. The list can be done much longer. It is therefore difficult to see a single solution to such a big and complex problem. We've already seen riots in many poor countries because of high food prices. However, the problem is also of a longer-term nature. Even if we were to be able to solve the current problems we see today, these problems are most likely to arise again. When a number of conditions contribute to making food more difficult to produce, and the world's population is increasing as fast as it does, we're likely to see more of hunger disasters in the future. Therefore, the right to clean water is also crucial in this situation. I understand well the reasons for the interpellant's questions about possible exceptional measures. But at the same time, I would like to stress that the problem we are facing is huge and complex. It requires that we contribute to finding broad international solutions, such as: at the meeting in Rome next week. One should distinguish between the acute problems we face today and the longer-term ones that are expected to arise. The former requires a handshake for starving people, whereas the latter requires a more structural approach. I am pleased that the Council of State in its response to the interpellant today has mentioned many different and good measures and forms of acute and long-term help. Finally, Norway, as a small, rich and well-born nation, has a clear responsibility here.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e846	The debate we have here today reminds me of a debate we had in Hedmark in the 1990s, when the golf course was to be built on cultivated land in Stage. Of course, it was a major local issue. We, as then young AUFs, thought it reprehensible that a golf course should be built on one of the best food fields in the world. We argued against this and for local food supply. We also outlined possible cases of global food crisis and the importance of local food production. Now, not exactly that golf course on Stange has a lot of responsibility in terms of the food crisis we're up against today, but my point is that at the time it wasn't something you discussed -- it wasn't something you had in mind. Had you discussed it the time we're discussing it here today, you might have avoided the crisis we're now in, and we can call it some kind of quiet tsunami in many ways. We are used to seeing images that show hunger and distress that have their cause in very simple and locatable factors - such as. war and conflict, acute drought or crop failure - in demarcated areas of least developed countries. And we're used to it hitting hard on those in the world who already live on the margins. The food crisis we are now facing is completely different. It comes from a whole series of factors-- I'm not going to mention everyone, they've been mentioned several times today. All of these factors together play a role. The consequence is increased prices, which in turn means poorer nutrition for large masses of people across large parts of the world -- while others sit and serve on it. Now we're seeing violent protests against the price rises all over the world. We see it in democracies. We see that it hits differently and that it hits more. The middle class in poor countries now cuts down on, for example, health costs. And they tickle, for example. in the case of meat, they may at least continue to eat three meals a day. And those who live in maybe the highest class of the poorest, take, for example, the children leave school and cut down on vegetables so that they can continue to eat rice and meat every day. The poorest, the ones that are defined to live on 1 dollar a day -- which would mean 1 billion people -- cut meat, vegetables and one or two meals, so that they can at least eat a bowl of rice every day. And those who live on less than this, of course, look hungry in their eyes. It is serious what has also been mentioned earlier today, that approx. 100 million people are at risk of falling back to poverty as food prices now rise, as the interpellant Højbråten also mentioned. So we are in danger of destroying a lot of the work that has been done in many countries over the last ten years to get people out of poverty. There is, of course, a need for immediate action and immediate help, but there is also a need to look at how the larger structures can change to avoid conditions like those we see now, to understand how this could happen, and to prevent it from happening again. It gives us a signal that we need to invest more in agricultural development in developing countries, in order to ensure greater self-sufficiency, global food security and economic growth. We must look at global trade policy. We must give farmers in poor countries both access to and money for seeds and fertilisers in the hope of increasing quality and production. The farmers living in the areas that are and will be most vulnerable to the impacts of climate change, such as climate change. droughts and floods need to be helped to secure future crops against just droughts, floods and other natural disasters. Then the debate on the responsibility of the biofuels for the food crisis is greatly exaggerated. Biofuels may have between 8 and 10 pst. because of the food crisis we have now. So that's not the reason for it, it's one of many factors. Second generation biofuels are also a solution to this. The food crisis is acute, but at the same time it is a warning of what will continue to come if we do not take the big picture - trade structures and economic structures. At the same time, it's a derailment to say that there's a shortage of food in the world as a whole -- it's wrong. That's the distribution that's wrong. It shows the fact that for the first time in history, the number of obese people has now exceeded the number of undernourished and starving people. Finally, I would like to join the representative, Mr Nybakk, in concluding his statement, that this is essentially about basic structures, long-term development, economic structures and a comprehensive policy for a fairer distribution in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e865	I will first, like everyone else here, give a big reward to the interpellant for addressing an important issue. We had a good and nuanced debate on this earlier this month, but it's nice to have an opportunity to discuss what to do with the food crisis, without being party posts for or against biofuels. I think it is good that the interpellant focuses on the fact that the rich countries' greenhouse gas emissions contribute to the drying and failing food production. We are in a situation where halving food production in Africa as a direct consequence of climate change is a current scenario. 20-30 pst. species of the world are threatened by climate change. Obviously, it does something about our ability to produce food. It requires the use of all good instruments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Good biofuels will contribute to a solution, while poor biofuels in the worst case can be part of the problem. Having said that, I have to say that it is very important to be aware that there is no shortage of agricultural land that is the cause of the crisis we are facing. Huge agricultural areas are fallow, among other things. as a result of dumping. Africa has the potential for a five-tidal doubling of its agricultural production. In the debate on biofuels, the Minister for the Environment and Development spoke of a green revolution. That's a very correct way to think about it, I think. I believe very strongly that we cannot refuse farmers and countries to find a way out of poverty by producing biofuels, which compete with oil in terms of price -- something quite different than producing food. We simply have to grow more, both food and biofuels of the good type, which have climate effects. So I also believe that it is very important to bear in mind that many have been concerned about the opposite issue - that food prices over a long time have been artificially low. Farmers have not been properly paid for their crops, they have not been harvested, they have not been sown, because there has been no agreement between the production costs and the price of food. We should remember that two thirds of the world's poor are farmers. The food crisis is therefore to a very large extent an urban problem - poor people in cities. Poverty control cannot be achieved by undercutting food prices. There will be a wrong way to fight poverty. But the population needs to be able to pay the cost of producing food through development, technology transfer, democratization and education - all of this that we are working on in development policy. The representative, Høglund, pointed to protectionist policies as a cause of poverty. This can be a polemic for or against free trade very quickly, and we should probably avoid that. But we need to be careful to get into a situation where developing countries are referred to producing and exporting only food, which is a sector with no particular technological development and potential for growth, while we are engaged in nanotechnology and high tech production and races from there in every way. The key to growth lies in technological development. In that case, one must actually have production in the sectors in which technological development is taking place. We need a green revolution in every way when such large agricultural areas lie fallow. It can mean more efficient and more modern agriculture in Africa. When e.g. Mozambique only uses one-fifth of its agricultural area, it says something about the potential that lies there. It is quite obvious that more of the arable soil has to be used. But that also means that we need to maintain food production in the West. It will be wrong to fight poverty if we end up in a situation where the world almost has a division of labour - where the developing world takes care of food production, while we do other things. I'm concerned that we have to be very aware that the food crisis does not lead to a strategy that means that Africa is just going to produce food -- just that. There's also a perspective to include yourself in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e890	I think this has been a debate that shows the Storting at its best. The big thing is the ability to take the small debates, the small questions -- there's no one in doubt about -- but the big thing is also the ability to take the big questions, and the big questions that we're involved in are important. We have done that today. I thank my colleagues for their broad and solid commitment. We can see that we agree on the broad lines of this important balance between climate policy and poverty policy. There are other balances between climate policy and poverty policy where we do not fully agree - we come back to that in the revised national budget. It is about using the aid framework to remedy the damage that rich countries have caused to the climate through rain forest resources. I'll leave that in this context. What we agree on in this debate is that we need to focus both on emergency aid and on reforms, both on money and on politics. We agree that we need a sustainable biofuels policy that focuses on certification that has authority far beyond the borders of Norway, but that is driven primarily by environmental concerns and by the interests of the world's population living in poverty, and not primarily by business interests. We also agree that it is important to put pressure on the development of the next generation of biofuels products, which, as the representative Lundtegen said, are also related to how we use the land and how we build food security. The food should be on the plate, not on the tank. There is no doubt that an offensive agricultural effort is seeking an overall increase. It has been confirmed in this debate. I record that the Storting is impatient with the Government, and the impatience extends far into the ranks of the government parties. I think that's good. The size of the population expects a follow-up to the action plan in this area. I probably have some disagreement about the level of ambition in relation to the dimensions that we've been talking about today. I want to say that the seriousness of Norway's responsibility here is that we are profiters in this context; we indirectly profit from the situation that has arisen here. We should therefore be at the forefront of meeting the deep human tragedy that lies in the food crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e905	I agree with Dagfinn Høybråten that this debate shows the Stortinget at its best. Let me just briefly comment on some contributions. I agree with Marianne Marthinsen that we should not throw the baby out with the bath water, but that we insist that biofuels are a good idea - that is, for example. the only idea so far produced in terms of how to reduce emissions from air traffic, where there is no alternative, as can be imagined in the case of a car. That is a good idea, but we have to set the framework for how it can be further developed. To Line Henriette Holten Heimdal: We will come back to how the government-opposition dialogue is going to be about biofuels. No decision will be taken before such a dialogue. I agree with Per Olaf Lundtegen that we need a much wider perspective on the debate. We also agree that it's not so stupid to bring yourself into a new era what you can call Mom's and Grandma's parole: eat your food, boy! -even though I have a lot of problems to get my children to practice it, I'll admit it. I agree a lot -- not 100 pst., necessarily -- Morten Höglund's emphasis on customs barriers as a problem. Not least, it is a huge problem in terms of China, a state of 1.4 billion people, and Africa, with 700-800 million people and 55 to some extent very weak states and with very little trade across. I also think it's a very heavy international experience that what can be called 'centre party farmers' is the most effective form of agricultural production. By that I believe that larger and medium-sized self-owned farmers connected to a market create almost everywhere and almost always a completely different production from feudal agriculture, than large plantations, or tiny-scale agriculture that is not connected to a market. It was the tribute for today to our partner in the government. So finally, I have some problems understanding the enormous belief in Norwegian action plans versus focusing on Norwegian advantage: what is Norway able to contribute internationally in terms of policy-making and in terms of smart use of our money? If we had been asked very specifically what to do at the Roma Summit, let me mention five things: We will help the world community to develop an overall response plan to the food crisis, where the emphasis must be on far and wide, not narrowly focused on agriculture, but also on all other aspects. We're going to help focus resolutely on the relationship between the climate and the food crisis. This has to be solved as a whole. We need to encourage an African green revolution that leads to a drastic increase in productivity and growth in production in Africa. The Norwegian advantage in that context is fertilizers and Yara. This does not mean that it is the only thing that will happen, but that partnership is important. We shall encourage close cooperation between the World Food Programme, the World Bank, the African Bank and the other UN organisations operating in this area on a sensible division of labour, so that we can make a good overall response to this crisis. And finally, we're going to help the world community develop a policy on how, in particular, to reach the landless and the poor part of the urban population that is the hardest hit by increased food prices - while others can profit from it - and where cash transfers must be an important part of that answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e933	The interpellant debate is therefore closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e947	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from the Council of State in the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e956	Much has been done both in Norway and in other countries to reduce the risk to health and the environment from chemicals that are hazardous to health and the environment. We know well what consequences some chemicals can have on nature, health, humans and animals, but the big picture is that we know far too little. We therefore need much more knowledge in order to make the right choices and, where appropriate, to ban them. Today we have dozens of thousands of chemicals that we do not know the health and environmental consequences of. But what we know is that many substances that are hazardous to health and the environment can lead to irreversible and long-term damage. We see, for example: an ever-increasing incidence of both minor and very serious diseases, including: multiple cancers. Allergy is a highly increasing health problem that costs both individuals and society a great deal. Researchers have demonstrated significant reductions in fertility, among others: due to the environmental toxicity of PCBs in seals, birds and polar bears. This is a strong warning that, on a global basis, pollutants are clearly one of the greatest environmental challenges we have. Of course, we cannot claim that all unfortunate disease trends come from the pollutants, because the causes are many and complex, yet many pollutants are both dangerous and harmful. We therefore need a chemical policy that is consistent and predictable, both for our own sake and for the sake of those who produce the products with which we surround ourselves and the consumer. Important principles are the precautionary principle, risk management rules, rules for the transition from health and environmental chemicals to alternatives with minor risks, the introduction of the polluter-pays principle, prevention rather than bet on cleaning, the right to know, etc. Hazardous chemicals are therefore a global challenge. The issue we have to deal with today is just a long and positive step on the way. Through the EU, we have now put in place a new European chemicals legislation, REACH, where the main elements are the registration of chemical substances, the evaluation of all substances registered in a certain quantity size, authorisation, i.e. an authorisation system for the most dangerous substances which means that they are not to be used unless authorised by the authority and further restrictions and the establishment of a new independent chemical agency added to Helsinki. We are at the heart of the matter today, when a unanimous Committee on Energy and the Environment calls for the Stortinget to agree to the Government's proposal that the Stortinget agree with the EEA Committee's decision No. 25/2008 of 14 March this year concerning the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of Regulation No 1907/2006 on the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation of Restrictions on Chemicals and the Establishment of a European Chemicals Agency, as referred to above located in Helsinki, ECHA, as well as Directive 2006/121/EC on chemicals legislation. As an EEA country, Norway is thus fully part of the EU chemicals policy. It is also important that there is a total accumulation which today gives its support to this, and I, as the rapporteur for this matter, have only perceived positive signals that what we are doing today is right for the Norwegian population and for the Norwegian industry. Although participation in the Chemicals Agency, ECHA, involves a certain transfer of authority to the Chemicals Agency because the Agency can take certain decisions and take decisions that may have a direct effect in Norway, this is considered to be so limited that the inclusion in the EEA Agreement does not require a decision under the Basic Law § 93. This has also been the subject of a constitutional assessment with such a conclusion. The opinion of the Committee on Energy and the Environment has been submitted to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, without any comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e975	I think the case rapporteur had a thorough and correct account of the process that has led to today's debate and today's vote. He gave us a good introduction to how serious the scope of the Chemicals Directive is in fact, and I'm not going to spend much time talking about it. I fully agree with the rapporteur in this area. For the Progress Party, it has been important that this matter was dealt with as quickly as possible. As I have seen it, there has been a broad consensus that flexibility and speed in dealing with this matter have been important. This concerns, among other things: that the pre-registration period for chemicals starts as early as the next Monday. Therefore, it is important that the Stortinget has now done the job we have done, so quickly under the direction of the representative Asmund Kristoffersen. I hope that the department can also continue the pace we have maintained in Stortinget, so that this legislation can come into force as soon as possible. I would like to point out another principle which the Progress Party gives its full support to, and which the Committee also endorses, namely that Norwegian chemicals policy will in future be based on international agreements rather than on special Norwegian laws, regulations and regulations. That means, of course, that it can be right, and in many cases it is certain that Norwegian chemicals policy should be fighting for a more stringent regulatory framework internationally, but it is in international forums that this fight should stand - not in such a way as to create strange rules that allow Norwegian industry to move its activities to countries with less stringent rules, but that we take this fight internationally. By doing so, the Progress Party shall agree to the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e986	The case spokesperson gave us the seriousness of the topic we are discussing today, namely chemical policy. When we now take decisions to include the EU chemicals rules in Norwegian legislation, there may be good reason to remind each other of how the rules, or the proposal for rules, have changed from when the white paper came from the European Commission in 2001 until today. The requirement that dangerous substances must be replaced with less hazardous substances, if they exist and can be used for the same purpose, is a question of conflict. The same applies to questions about what should be called a dangerous substance. At the beginning of the process, a division was made into four groups of substances: substances that can lead to carcinogenic substances that damage the genetic properties of endocrine disrupting substances that are not degraded in nature or that accumulate at the top of the food chain In the rules we adopt today, only the last group of substances that the EU considers dangerous enough to demand the substitution of the substance if there are better alternatives for health and the environment. The other properties, such as endocrine disruption, cancer and changes in genetic properties, are no longer so dangerous that one requires replacement. Thus, the EU chemicals company has been largely closed down by turning its attention from health and the environment over to its competitiveness and free movement across the EEA territory. Thus REACH is very different today from the 2001 White Paper. Despite the fact that the European Parliament tried to tighten up the directive, they did not. It also says a little about how little power a congregation that has many adherents in this room really has in the EU system. It also shows the values the Union prioritises when it has to choose between market liberalism on the one hand and public health and the environment on the other. However, it is good that the EU now has a comprehensive legal framework for the registration, control and approval of chemical substances, but it is foolish that many chemicals that should come under the directive will not be included in it. The centre party's EU position is well known, including our opposition to the EEA. Nevertheless, the Centre Party is and will be a party that does what we can to benefit from the space for action within the EEA Agreement. The result of the EU being trampled on by the government in the issue of a ban on so-called brominated flame retardants for electrical and electronic equipment was far more successful than one could expect. Norway’s ban came in 2006, in breach of the EEA Agreement. Denmark and the European Parliament wished to refer the matter to the Court of Justice, and the Court of Justice supports the fact that the European Commission could not exempt the so-called deka-BDE from the ban. As a result, these substances are also banned in the EU-wide EE product. In the proposal, the Government argues that national rules can be passed on and that the REACH Directive in some areas provides a basis for a tightening of the legislation by introducing more substances. The centre party believes that Norwegian government powers must be based on REACH as a minimum directive, so that we can continue to work to impose stricter requirements on substances when our professional authorities believe that the common requirements are too weak. The central party of my Government must work actively towards the EU in order to understand such a view. Norway shall play a role in ensuring that the common legislation is properly discharged. Norwegian efforts to bring brominated flame retardants under the legislation indicate that this is possible. Even if we wanted to see REACH as extensive as it was originally planned, there's a lot of work going on testing chemical. It is also important to contribute to further testing in cooperation in the EU. The central part of the game represents the setting that a group committee has presented here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e1020	Let me start by thanking the case rapporteur for a thorough review of the matter, and the committee for good work. When there is no more debate here than it seems, it is not because the matter is not important, but because there is a broad consensus about it. On the contrary, this is a matter that deserves great attention and which has a significant impact on the protection of the population both in Norway and in the rest of Europe against harmful substances. The new ambitious legislation is a step forward for Norway. This allows us to become part of a larger European regulatory framework and thus more easily protect Norwegian consumers. It is a step forward for Europe by creating a common regulatory framework for Europe as a whole, and also has a great potential to be a step forward for the world, because there is a great deal of experience in that when the EU regulates European markets, it also has a global dimension, in that producers elsewhere in the world change their production, because entry into the European market is important, and they can then look at their overall portfolio in that context. It is good that we get this done away with now, because already on 1 June some of the practical obligations start running under REACH. That's why it's good that we're in place from the beginning. Of course, the most fundamental thing is that REACH means that the burden of proof is placed on industry to show that their products are safe. So far, the authorities have had to prove that the products were dangerous. The reversal of the burden of proof in this way gives much greater protection to European consumers. Let me just say at the end that we from the Government will contribute to Norway's national implementation of REACH. We also need to look at the possibilities for a possibly stricter Norwegian legislation, which the representative Sande had in mind, based on the individual situations that may arise. At the same time, we need to be concerned about how Norway affects the further development of Europe's legislation in this area, and we need to look at the global impact. Now I see on the list of speakers that the next speaker is the leader of the European Movement. Without predicting exactly what he is going to say, I would say that the EU's design of this type of European environmental legislation also for an EU opponent is one of the most positive aspects of the EU, which has great European and global significance.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e1033	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e1036	The Council of State was aware that it is important that this is in place from the start. The start is in practice on Monday. The decision of the EEA Committee to include REACH in the EEA Agreement will enter into force on the day following the receipt of the notification by the EFTA States. Iceland has given such a notice. It is then that this will enter into force on the day following that of such notification to the EEA Committee. This is important for Norwegian export interests. The question then is, Is it the case that the Council of State assumes that this legislation could enter into force in practice from 2 June?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e1043	I can't say right here over the table when this is going to take effect. I just want to say that we're going to do what's in our power at all in order for this to be implemented as quickly as possible. Then we want to engage in dialogue with the professional organisations on how to deal with it in a practical way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e1048	I use the chance to take the word one more time, because I've read the committee setting as a clear signal from an overall surge that chemicals policy will in the future be based on international laws and regulations and international constraints. I very much appreciate what the Council of State says he will take advantage of the opportunity to travel to Europe to create a stricter regulatory framework for chemicals. I think he should do that where it is necessary for professional reasons. But I'm a little startled when I hear the signals that the Council of State gives, and I don't feel that the committee agrees, namely that you have to have a strange code in addition to REACH. Can the State Council comment and confirm that Norwegian chemicals policy will in the future be based on REACH and not on strange rules?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e1057	There is no doubt that Norwegian chemicals policy will be based on REACH. That's what's at stake here. We will try to influence European chemicals policy, not to be as strict as possible, but as strict as is necessary to take care of Europe's consumers. We will try to use this as a platform to influence chemical use globally. There is no doubt that chemical use, for example. in some developing countries is far, far more dangerous than it is in Europe. But this must not mean that we deny any possibility of going into individual situations where the protection of Norwegian consumers – in the most extreme cases of their lives and health – is at stake, and assess them on a separate basis, without any specific matter being notified.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e1065	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e1068	With reference to the introduction of the undersigned by the Council of State, it may be tempting, since he said that even an EU opponent believes that the EU can do something good, to quote the Finnish Minister for Foreign Affairs, who said that being against the EU is basically like being against the Internet. That's it. Our 27 neighbouring countries have chosen the EU as a form of cooperation. We've connected with Iceland and Liechtenstein. We're part of it. Of course, you can be against Norway becoming a full member - perhaps what the Council of State meant. It is gratifying that there is a unanimous committee recommending the inclusion of this Regulation in the EEA Agreement. There has been some debate in Norway too, but as usual it has come after the debate has ended and decisions have been taken where decisions are taken on such matters. Then it's a little late to discuss the realities. However, it is also gratifying to see that the scepticism expressed by some teams after REACH was adopted in the EU bodies has disappeared when working through the content and realities. The new legislation thus leads to a reinforced level of protection of health and the environment also in Norway. However, an even more important perspective is that such a common regulatory framework is European and means a reinforced level of protection in 30 countries in Europe. I believe that in several of these countries - perhaps in a majority - the improvements will be significant. It is one of the great advantages of this type of cooperation, which I understood at the representative Erling Sande that the Center Party has also seen the importance of. And as the Council of State also pointed out, when Europe sets a standard, it very often becomes a global standard, because it is an important market for other actors as well. This legislation shall be further developed. Member States may themselves consider prioritizing substances and proposing regulations at European level. So we will become a member of the European Union in another area. We join the Chemicals Agency, which has its seat in Helsinki. We even get one place on the board. However, when the Ministry of the Environment of the Proposition states that ‘the agreed adaptation texts ensure sufficient influence and participation by Norway under REACH’, it must be allowed to point out that the Ministry therefore considers that participation without voting rights is sufficient, because we do not get it - nor in this body. I think it's being a little bit small. That we have put ourselves in a situation where we do not get the right to vote even if we participate is now one thing, something else is that I believe that this is not sufficient in terms of influence. This is, after all, a commitment to international cooperation. We're surrendering sovereignty to a common body. The fact that we have to accept that we are not allowed to participate in the votes gives us a democratic deficit. It's not satisfying. There may be decisions in this Agency where it is important not just to be a voice, but where it would also be important to have a voice to put in the pot, for example. for more stringent legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e1081	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3442]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e1097	On behalf of the President-in-Office of the Council, who is travelling with the President of the Grand Duchy, I will present the matter. It is important that people have confidence that the elections in a democracy are really separate, whether it be local elections or big shots. The result shall reflect the vote of the voters. There shall be no room for cheating or manipulation from either those who vote or those who count. All experience suggests that voters have great confidence that the choices made in Norway are well balanced, although it is difficult to avoid the occurrence of errors here and there, for various reasons. The task is to develop the legislation and implementation of the choices so as to minimise the possibilities for errors. This is why we introduced, for example: requirements for identification at the last local elections, which had been considered unnecessary until then because in most of the polling rooms there are transparent conditions and good local knowledge. Those who support the proposal for a representative justify the many proposals for changes to the electoral law to help reduce electoral fraud, including: by introducing suspension provisions against elected elected representatives who are trying to cheat and fantasize. What is the real reason for other proposals, for example: limiting the right to vote in local elections to EEA citizens, we might have to think of ourselves. What is stated in the proposal is that we want to limit the right to vote to people who have ‘established a fundamental sense of democracy’. Why, then, the exclusion of nearly 10,000 American or Canadian citizens living in Norway from voting in local elections appears to be a bit funny. The same applies to Indians -- from a country that has 2,500 years of democratic history. A unanimous committee refers to the implementation of quite extensive changes in the electoral law in the treatment of Ot.prp. No 45 for 2001-2002. The starting point was extensive and thorough work in the Election Law Committee. Although we must constantly keep in mind the need to be able to adjust the electoral law on the basis of the experience gained, they are, in part, the extensive proposals of the Progress Party representatives far beyond the scope of such an adjustment. The government has also announced a big message on local democracy in spring 2008, where the electoral system will be one of the themes. In this connection, the Rocken Centre has been commissioned to evaluate, among other things. the experience of the 2007 Local Elections Scheme. It is therefore gratifying that a unanimous committee considers it natural to await a wider review of the experience of the electoral law before considering changes and recommends that the present proposal be annexed to the protocol. In view of this, the Committee does not consider it appropriate to examine the individual proposals contained in the draft representative. Nor do I find any reason to do so in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e1118	The Progress Party seems to be right to attach this matter to the Minutes, since there is still a big message about local democracy. When the Progress Party wanted to address a number of issues on some important points where we see that we have challenges, it was based in particular on the experience we gained in the municipal and county elections in 2007. This applies not least to electoral fraud. We have gained some experience in the 2007 elections that suggests that we should clarify some of the rules of the electoral law, and perhaps also strengthen the penalty framework for electoral fraud - also the possibility of suspending policy-makers suspected of electoral fraud, in the period until the end of the case. The proposal on the common election day for local elections and local and county elections, respectively, is also something we will address at a later stage in the context of the local democracy enlargement announcement, as well as in other contexts. We see clearly good reasons why we're going in that direction. Politicians from other parties, including government parties, have thought in the same paths. It is true that there are some other proposals in this document which vote for immigrants. We have a situation in Norway today where immigrants to Norway automatically receive voting rights after a three-year residence period. First of all, the Progress Party believes that there is a strange difference between decision-making and municipal and county elections. But then we also believe that all the time we have major integration challenges in relation to some immigrant groups, it is unnatural that living alone should be essential for the voting rights of local and county elections. The most natural thing would have been - the Progress Party - to attach it to citizenship, as in the case of major elections. This means that there is a clear and sensible division which is, in fact, by far the most common in democratic countries. We also address issues in relation to gender quotas. What is often seen as a problem in both local and post-arrangement nomination processes is that women have to take on a very large number of jobs and therefore often hesitate to be on the electoral list. Often it has an effect that is contrary to what was the purpose of the change that was made in the municipal law in its time. The Progress Party believes that it is totally unsustainable to put in place the leadership of democracy, which is based on gender, ethnicity and sexual orientation - these types of criteria that will in reality impede the exercise of democracy. We also see this extended, not least we saw that the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman, Beate Gangås, in the 2007 elections, made rather extreme statements, in my opinion, when she urged the voters to vote out white heterosexual men between 40 and 50 years of age without disability. She said this in the Evening Post on September 6, 2007. It shows a trend which, from the point of view of the Progress Party, is very problematic, because in the desire to achieve the fairest possible distribution of political powers on the basis of these criteria, one is willing to trample on democracy. Because that's really what I think you do, if you let the kind of relationship that sexual orientation, ethnic background or sex go before the free exercise of democracy. If that's what you want, you could ask the Central Statistical Bureau to implement the elections, and then we could withdraw and get a statistical breakdown that would be at the request of the Equality Ombudsman. But of course that's not what we see for ourselves, and of course that's not what any of us want. Therefore, we have to tread very carefully when a person gets into this kind of regulation, which I believe is obviously a barrier to free democracy. So it's not the kind of classification that's going on in ethnicity, sexual orientation or sex that's going to be crucial, but the fact that you're actually involved in politics, that you want to be involved in politics, and that you think and think you can do it for the benefit of either country, state or their respective municipalities. But, as I said, the Progress Party is pleased that the matter is annexed to the Minutes. We will pursue these issues on later occasions where appropriate, especially in the context of the announcement of local democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e1135	I will not repeat what the representative Amundsen said, of course I fully support it, but there are two things I thought to add. Although I am from Drammen, I should not say anything special about what happened in the election case there. One thing I would like to add, which the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs can take with him in the work, and which I was a little surprised, as she may know, was that prior to the elections in the Drama, election information was distributed to the households, to those who were to vote. In this choice information, the last two pages provided information to non-Norwegian but will still be put to the vote. What I was stunned about was that information was in English, Turkish, Russian, Somali, Vietnamese, Arabic, farsi and Urdu, but not in a number of EU languages, such as: Spanish, French, Italian, Polish, Hungarian, etc. At least that can be taken into account in the work. For me, this may seem more like a favour for the non-Western immigrants in Norway and in the Drammen. And if we do not get a majority for II in our proposal that election information in languages other than Norwegian should be primarily in EU languages, we should at least have equality. And I also ask that you look at this with an attempt to use fake ID cards when voting in the polls. I received a number of enquiries from election officials who actually came to me and asked what to do if you discovered this. There's clearly a lack of information about what the election officials should actually do if you see this. So I ask that you also take it into account in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e1144	Several have not asked for the floor and the debate on substance. 4 is over. [[Fotation, see page 3442]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e1160	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3442]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e1176	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3443]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e1184	The size should now vote in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e1204	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-29.ana.ud558e1567	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
