ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e86	The representatives Per Olaf Lundtigen and Ågot Valle, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e106	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 45 minutes, Progress Party 25 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes and Left 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e117	2009 is the first year of the new long-term programme period, the programme to balance defence. Actually, we should now focus on implementing – the big decisions should be behind us. So it should be simple, but I don't think it's that simple. There's a consensus about a lot in the defense. But there is also considerable disagreement, especially about what was pushed through by a very scarce majority in the Grand Duchy six months ago. The consensus that has been in this four-year period is not due to the Government. In fact, I don't remember cases where the government has been striving to create consensus. It has a majority and does not need to build a wider base. It has meant a more closed process. I think that is a democratic problem, and it is a problem that it does not give a broad ownership of the future of defence. Right now, the defense needs such broad ownership. It should therefore have been in another way on the Government to create this broad ownership of the Storting, it has not. This is probably an emphasis on the fact that a majority government is not always a particularly good idea. This relationship is reinforced by the fact that the budgetary paper we have received this time provides even less information than it has previously given. The majority of the Committee, during the long-term programme debate, clearly expressed concern about the operation and a clear majority wanted to know more about the important issues involved in the operation of the defence. It has been answered that the last remnants of concrete information have been withdrawn from the budgetary documents. At my discretion, there are four main groups of problems we have to address. One is the level of operations in the Defence. Over the spring, we have seen considerable frustrations in large parts of the defence linked to the scarcity of resources. We see it very clearly in the matter that the Stortinget will deal with later today, namely the revision of the 2008 budget, where there has been both a need to make so-called activity adjustments and, in addition, there has been a significant injection of money from the investment budget at the end of the year. This is also announced in the general order of the budgetary documents. There are concerns in Stortinget at this point – is it trained, practised, flown, sailed, and maintained enough? And there's little material in the documents to justify that it does. On some points, there is openness, not least home security and lack of practice. This is clearly less necessary. The migration of home security has been a success, and it is important to build on this success by attracting as many people as possible — getting them to practice and get them to be active. We believe that this has been misjudged by the Government. Had our budget been put through in the financial debate, we would have the means to do something about this. So we believe that the level of operation in the defence is too low, and the budget that we would like to have adopted in the Stortinget would allow more for operation. The second set of problems relates to the level of investment, where we haven't just adjusted the annual level by DKK 1.6 billion per year. years compared with the previous long-term programme period, but already, before the start of the period, you are based on the figures you have set yourself. This is also evident from the case we are going to deal with later today. It is important that a defense like ours, which is so small, is at least top equipped. It is therefore important to use funds on investments. But once again, there's little material to assess what's really a correct level of investment. We have our doubts in a number of areas, for example:: Is it now necessary to spend a great deal of money on the purchase of coastguard vessels that are already in operation today? That calculation has not been presented by the Government – and I hope that it is not the ideology, but that it is a calculation that makes the Government feel that it needs to own the coastguard vessels that are now running. When I talk about the Coast Guard, I want to bring a heart attack. I have seen press releases from the West: «The Coast Guard has... two-day raid in the Fiji Islands». Another coastal watchbook in the Sunnhordland newspaper is the ‘KV ‘Tor’ on windshield.’ My question to the Minister of Defense is: Is it really necessary to drive heavy grey-painted marine vessels with cannons up the rocks of people to check if they have too large jetties? I am not sure if that is what builds up the connection to the defence. The third problem we're facing is the decisions that were passed by barely a majority just before the summer break. I still believe that those decisions were incorrect. This concerns the movement of FOHK. I record that almost half a billion dollars will be spent on investments in a situation where the funds are tight. It shows one of the weaknesses of our treatment: one thing is what you can earn in a 20-year period, but what happens in the meantime was very little explained. Another question is crew training in the Home Office. We'll see if the rest of the weapons really do make up for the termination of their own education. So we don't least have the question of Olavs protection. Even members of the Defence Committee of the Government Parties have expressed great concern at the decision taken by the Stortinget, a decision with little economic impact. At my discretion, it's fairly clear that a credible north-eastern policy also requires that we are able to be military in North Norway in a proper way, and I think that also means a supporting point in the north, which is Olavsvermner. Although in between you may find someone in the Maritime Defense Department who thinks you can do without, there is no doubt that the most important part of the marine defence community in this country believes that this was a crazy decision – not only for our own maritime defence, but also in relation to the Allied Maritime Defence. We therefore believe that it is right to keep Olavs protection, and we get a vote at that point today. Another rather astonishing development is the development of ICT activities, or INI, which it is now called, at Jørstadmoen. We were through this in the spontaneous question hour not long ago. The piece of art on which the government parties are trying is that while INI's leadership has been uniquely assigned to Jørstadmoen, an instruction that came into force on 1 January 2006, a chief position will now be set up to do exactly the same in Oslo. How to maintain the two functions at the same time in two places, without saying that you move something from one place to another, is not immediately clear. I remember when I took over as rapporteur many decades ago, my predecessor gave me the following advice: If you wonder what to say in a matter, consider saying it as it is. I would also recommend the government parties to do that. If you've changed your mind, it's an honest thing. But at least you have to say it. You're not close to doing that here. The fourth point is about the Army, which is small. I think we see the serious daily consequences of the possibility of contributing to international operations. That is why there is such a broad consensus that the army must be rebuilt. I fully agree with those who say that the focus must be on filling the vulnerable points we now have – but we must go further and beyond it, and I pointed out in the context of the long-term programme how it can be done. I have to say at the same time that I'm completely open to other ways of doing it. The problem was that there was so little material for alternative thinking, both in the proposition and in Defense Study 07, so we pointed out in one way to do it, but I'm open that there are other ways to do it. The point is that they have to be done, and so we have to focus on how we can get this out. It also reminds me of a piece of advice I would like to pass on, for later processes. The problem with the long-term programme was that there was so little basis for alternative thinking. I always think it's of limited interest to know what you mean, what, for example. The head of defense believes, but it is of great interest to know why he or the department or others have their opinions. If you're not willing to consecrate others lately, the very conclusion is of an indicative nature and of relatively little interest. So a couple more things: one is the problem of price rise. I don't think that's really addressed in any way. One of the main points in FS07 was that the price increase in the defence sector is different from that in society, which is based on the proposition. Then we expect the ministry to open up with what numbers they have used in what context. If it's the same number, you obviously have to be on a collision course with this basic premise. There's a lot of talk and it's said relatively little. We need a number to verify what really happened. Secondly, the debate on the FLO. We have by no means been given a proper basis for decision. I think the committee's attitude with all the clarity tells. That means that at least my party can't stand behind the changes that you might now want. So let me refer to what the committee says about veterans. I look forward to finally having a decision on these issues when the proposal from the Government comes. I would like to stress the thanks that the Committee gives to those who are now serving out. Finally, a few words about security policy: there is only one point I want to address, namely Russia, and not least the question of Georgia. It is worrying that Russia has shown a willingness to use military resources beyond its own borders. It is worrying that they so openly say that they want to pursue Russian interests beyond their own borders. Much of what happened in Georgia was unclear. But it happened on undisputed Georgian grounds. We have to remember that. I belong to those who believe that dialogue with Russia is important. The Defence Committee therefore went there in October, even if it could be criticised. But I think the dialogue is important. That's why I'm putting 100 percent, at least, behind the line the Government has put on in terms of dialogue with Russia. But it is necessary to be clear in the criticism of what Russia has done. And it is necessary that the defence is clear that NATO is a defence alliance, and that getting new members is not an attack on Russia. There's one question Russians rarely answer, and it's: what's the security issue really related to NATO's expansion? It's not that easy to give an open answer to. What is Russia's security problem here is that they can no longer exercise influence in their backyard – they have to make peace with the fact that they have lost their empire. Without them coming to peace with this, we will never have a lasting, good relationship with Russia. It has to be made clear. That's why I'm amazed that you can't be clear about Georgia either. NATO itself, with the Norwegian government's approval, has given Georgia a perspective on where they will come. Then you shouldn't be so vague that you give Russia the impression that the Augustagreement actually paid off. The main question itself has been settled by the Government. Now what we're talking about is the technique to achieve this goal. Whether it's MAP status or something else, you can discuss, except that it's a little amazing, when the main question, namely the membership question, is already backed up, to give the MAP process a different name – that's probably not necessary. Just the kind of ambiguity that can give the impression that there is no need for gnawing. Russia is an amazing country, a neighboring country with which we have good history. Therefore, it is to hope that we can have a new era in the relationship of the West with Russia. But Russia must realize that the empire is no longer there – neither the Soviet Union nor the Czar. Any attempt to pretend to be there must end with conflict and bad conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e179	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e182	It was with great excitement that I read the draft budget from the Right on the Defence. This is where the credibility of the Right in relation to the Right went into the long-term proposition was supposed to turn out – because it was now the money had to be on the table. In the budget, the Right will grant 500 million. kr more than what the Government does, but it's actually only half of what the Right had in its long-term proposition. It is also the case that the appropriations for Madla, Værnes, FOHK, Olavsverk and the Home Office, and with a stronger build-up of the Army, would give a result as early as 1 January next year. The question then is: Is it so that the Right has given up these matters, as they do not show it in their draft budget? It is in the budget that the money should be on the table, and where you have to show that you have credibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e189	The right has definitely not given up. Although it is more difficult to create a budget in the Storting than when you sit in the government offices, we still have the right to get this quite significant investment into the Defence – to show in what direction we want to go. I believe that some of what was adopted last year – which is irreversible – should be reversed, for example. as regards Olavs protection, which it is possible to obtain within that framework. Sign Eyes must not be in doubt that we wish to return to the government offices, so that we can preface the budgets from the first moment. Then it will be easier to change the course, and the Right has previously shown that we are doing well to change the course in Norwegian policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e196	It might seem that we have a plural government, irritating Right. But the plural government has come as a result of the people's will in elections. There were three parties who opted for a programme and for a policy – which we, of course, implement. When we have had the long-term plan and other matters for treatment, we have invited the rest of the Storting to join the negotiations. And as far as I'm concerned, not all the parties have set up when we've had these negotiations. So I think we've tried to stretch as far as possible. But then specifically to the budget. Hardly before the long-term plan is finished in Stortinget, we come with fresh, new 400 million. kr in the budget. We take into account the military trades in which we say that there is a problem between balance sheet and investment. Doesn't Petersen see that we're dealing with the basic problems here? We're drawing on investments, yes, but we also come with fresh money, so that one can run the defense from day to day in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e205	This money is not as fresh as Jacobsen seems to think, because a great deal of it is going to compensate for the cuts in the budget that the red-green government itself stood for. What we're facing here is that you've spent a lot of money on zeroing out your own cuts. What is important is that the amount of money the government has invested in should not be written in stone in Norwegian politics. That's why we think we need to get higher. I wish we could get a lot higher, but here it's about having contact with reality, and that's what you have in the Right Budget. Otherwise, I am fully aware that it was a plurality that brought the three parties into government. But I assume that Jacobsen has also noticed the lack of enthusiasm in the years that followed. And that's where the point is, that this has led the government parties into the tempting situation of shutting down the processes. I think many people are quite doubtful as to whether this is a good thing. You could have done something about this, but you're so concerned about yourself that you can't reach out one hand to another.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e214	I have noticed that the Right has expressed skepticism – not to say great scepticism – about the transfer of the inspectors-general with his staffs from Oslo. My question is: doesn't the representative Petersen not see it as natural to move the general inspector of the Army, with his staff, from Oslo to Bardufoss and the general inspector of Defense to Bergen, near his base? Would it not be better to have the inspectors in the vicinity of the operational base than to have the organisation we have today?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e221	The answer to that is no. I believe it would be significantly more natural to have them around the head of defense. I think they would then in many ways be able to perform a more correct function than if you moved them out. I think it's moving, for example. The general inspector of the Army of Inner Troms has little to do with north-eastern issues. I wish that the representative Samuelsen, who comes from North Norway, had given more attention to the operational considerations, for example. to have Olavsværk restored, rather than to move out office workplaces. But this is the case with the Government – it's like the office workplaces that are the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e228	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e232	The government proposes to grant over 33 billion dollars to the Defense in 2009. This is a real increase of 620 million. kr compared to the 2008 budget. The increase comes at the top of compensation for wage and price increases and therefore means a real increase in the defence budget of 2 pst. The Bondevik II government made a comparison of the previous long-term plan with the objective of having an annual average defence budget of 29.5 billion in 2004. But already in the first year of the long-term plan, the Bondevik II government provided a budget of several hundred million dollars under their own assumptions for the long-term plan. So we're going to do the opposite. We meet half of the target in the long-term plan already the first year. That's good. Developments in our environment suggest that the relevant safety policy objectives for Norway should be firm. Taking into account Norway’s sovereignty, territorial integrity and political freedom of action are fundamental security interests, which are reflected, not least, in the overall Northern Territory initiative proposed by the Government. Another fundamental security interest is to contribute to a multilateral world order under the auspices of the United Nations, with emphasis on international law and universal human rights as evidence of international solidarity and a strengthening of the UN. Norway also has a vital interest in maintaining and strengthening the transatlantic security community through NATO. Norway’s fundamental security policy interests and main objectives are linked to these interests. I am pleased that there is a cross-political consensus on this both in the Committee and in the Stortinget. The 2009 budget represents a significant boost for the defence sector and represents an important step towards the long-term objectives set for the period 2009-2012. The Labour Party is very pleased that we are already following up half of the increase in the first year in order to achieve the allocation target we have set for 2012. In this context, it is tempting to refer to the speech of the Defence Manager Sverre Dens after the presentation of the budget, where he says that this budget involves ‘a breakthrough for a more rational and predictable financing of defence’. The Chief of Defence has also underlined that with this budget we have taken a step away from the stump. The Workers' Party believes that the Government in this way clearly demonstrates that we are prioritizing the Defence, and that we are following up both our Northern Territory Strategy and are facilitating a continuing high level of contributions to international operations through the UN and NATO. I am particularly pleased that both the Army, the Naval Defense and the Air Force have a financial boost in 2009. The budget for Norwegian forces abroad is proposed to continue at the high level of the day. Norway will thus be able to maintain the high level of contributions to the ISAF operation in Afghanistan. I would also like to take this opportunity to commend the efforts of the individual in our foreign operations, far from family and friends, in an area marked by war and great challenges. A few days ago I was on the Gardermoen when the new Hercule transport plane Frigg was baptized. There was a lot of political rage when the haste purchase of the new Hercules transport planes was adopted in Stortinget in June last year. As we know, the Progress Party went against it. They did not want to acknowledge that if the decision did not go through, Norway would remain standing without operationally available tactical transport aeroplane capacity. I get to say as the progress party rapporteur in Ullensaker said to me during the baptism: what is certain is that this government delivers what it promises. I wish his colleagues in Stortinget could see the same thing as him. I want to commend the work of the Council of State on the veterans. I guess there's no government and no government council that's done more for this group than what this government and government have done. The defence has established its own veterinary administration and the head of defence is in the process of creating a separate directive which will underline the responsibility of the defence for the care of the veterans. The government has also contributed to the development of its own military outpatient clinic, which, in addition to offering its own treatment, also helps veterans up against public health. The government is also in the final phase of providing for enhanced protection for veterans, and for the follow-up of the Defence after completion of foreign service. There has been a great focus this fall around the Olavsvern base in Tromsø. I have a great deal of understanding for those who have worked for the Olavsverms cause. It is, however, that the clear advice we have received from both the Chief of Defense, the Chief of Defence and others is that there is no need for Olav protection in the defence structure. I am aware that the health care environment in Tromsø has been concerned with maintaining the pressure chamber capacity that is at Olavsverm today. I share those concerns, but I am sure that the Government will find practical solutions for the disposal of Olavsværm so that the pressure chamber capacity of the Defense today on Olavsværm can be taken over by others. Another thing that has been very focused on this autumn is the location of the new head of the Defence ICT business. I have to say that at times there has been a rather demanding debate. Before I say anything about Chief INI, I would like to say that this government has actually done a lot for Jørstadmoen and the environment there. It is this government that made sure that Jørstadmoen was not closed. It is also this government that has strengthened Jørstadmoen with almost 100 posts during the last year. So to the very matter of the location of Chief INI. I am absolutely convinced that the establishment of Chief INI is an important and correct continuation and strengthening of the activities in the INI area currently carried out by the Defence Staff and to some extent the Ministry of Defence. The establishment will not involve the transfer of annual works or competences that are currently located in Jørstadmoen. Of course, I am familiar with the importance of Jørstadmoen as a spearhead in a developing ICT environment in the interior, and the cooperation between Jørstadmoen, the university and industry. This is military-civil cooperation that all parties are served with. I would like to stress that the high level of competence at Jørstadmoen will be there and will be further developed. The ICT environment at Jørstadmoen can be certain that this government will continue to invest in this environment. However, there must be limits to the level at which the size should be applied in terms of detail management. We must therefore, in my opinion, try to avoid that in the future we will end up in a position where the interests of some jobs and lobbyists are overshadowing Storting's work with the overall picture. I believe that the Right and Advance Party have not contributed to this matter. The Workers' Party has taken note of the Government's work with the Defence Logistics Organisation. I am of the clear opinion that the tasks of the FLO in providing, maintaining and delivering materials and supplies in the right place and at the right time are essential to this organisation. If this fails, the operational functions will also be harmed, with the consequences it will have for our fighting ability. I have noticed that the goal of the review that the Government is now proposing is to adapt the FLO to today's needs. It joins the Workers' Party. However, I would like to stress that any change in the FLO must have the widest possible anchoring both internally in the organisation and not least in the employee organisations. As the only woman in the defense committee, I cannot stand here today without saying anything about the position of women in the defense. It has also been taken into account by the Council of State. We know that the number of women in Defense is far too low, and our goal is to increase this significantly. There's been a lot of grips, and it's going to happen more. The Labour Party is pleased that, through the session system and other human resources policies, we will make considerable efforts to recruit and maintain more women in the defence sector. I'm going to say that with that, we're going to get an even better defense. In conclusion, I would like to say something about Homeland Protection. As is not known, HV should exercise strengths this year other than the intervention force, command and specialists. I have had a lot of contact with HV during this fall, and I was only a few weeks ago with HV when the Landsrådet für Heimevernet had its annual meeting at Heistandmoen. I'm not going to spend a lot of time here today arguing why we're going to have a strong HV. I think that a total accumulation is behind me when I say we're going to have a nationwide, strong HV, and I, like many others, therefore assume that HV already in 2010 gets to practice its entire organization. Finally, I would like to express my thanks to the chairman of the committee, who I believe has managed the Committee's work on the budget for the autumn. This has led us to get into port in a way that, in my opinion, makes the budget very good. In the end, I want to repeat what I started with, namely that with this budget, we have strengthened the defence, and that this also represents a clear turning point, from a reduction to a build-up of the Norwegian defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e283	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e286	It would have been tempting to take a line on transport aircraft, but I will leave that for now. I'll say a little about Homeland. Home protection has been through a dramatic cut-off and conversion over several years — from 83,000 men to 50,000 men and now to 45000 men. The number of districts is almost halved. This process has been supported by the Workers Party, but not by the Progress Party. In addition, the budgets for home protection have been reduced. For the Progress Party, this seems to be a little thoughtful, as one too for approx. 3 pst. of the total defence budget receives a great deal of defence, a part of defence that cannot be compared with others, and where local knowledge is an important part. No one else can do this better. The budget for 2009 is also not good for the Home Office. The Progress Party wants to increase the budget by 130 million. kr. The working party wants to reduce it, with the result that there will be no practice for the common protection teams. Does not the representative eye and government parties see how serious it is that military departments – in this case the Home Guard – do not get to practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e297	Firstly, I would say that the reorganisation that has taken place in HV has been a success. Everyone agrees, and we should be very happy about that, because HV is doing a very good job – now also in foreign operations, but not least in terms of what we talked about here in the Chamber yesterday: in terms of the security and care of Norwegian society. Now that we can reduce slightly in the budget in 2009, that's because there's a change in that area by reducing personnel from 50,000 to 45,000, and we're dropping Guards as a training center. It will provide some savings that we can use to boost the effort otherwise in HV. I agree that we should go very far in order for all the forces to practice in 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e304	It's not easy to be aggressive when Signe Eye is so nice, so I think I have to add what I was going to ask about. But it gives me so much opportunity to focus on something that I don't quite understand, and that's why the government parties can't openly and honestly admit that they've taken a new stand on Jørstadmoen's activities. The instructions say very clearly where the overall management of the information infrastructure should be: the head of Jørstadmoen. But when you read the budget documents, you get the impression that it's going to be in Oslo. Then my question is, is it that the Workers' Party believes that it can be located two places at the same time?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e311	No, Chief INI is, as I see it, a position that will take care of the entire ICT business throughout the country. There are locations around with some ICT activities. This is an administrative position which can lie in Oslo, and which takes care of it administratively. Jørstadmoen is a centre of expertise that is to develop and that has completely different tasks to be performed, and I believe that these do not conflict with each other. That's why we're going to go in so that we can now build the alarm center tasks there. In addition, we have said that we should build on Jørstadmoen, so that it becomes a place where a large part of the build-up of expertise in defence will take place within ICT. But Chief INI, who has a completely different function, can be in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e316	The President will note that it does not damage with a bit of nice rounding in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e319	I'll try to continue in the same good spirit. The Christian People's Party was very concerned about reaching a broad settlement in the treatment of the long-term plan. We couldn't. The only explanation we can figure out is that there was so much internal disagreement in the government that there was no room to move on anything. Then we see that there are further statements pointing in the exact same direction. Kristin Halvorsen spoke after the decision on the fighter flight purchase when it came to the use of money, that she thought it was ‘the happy madness’. In the past week, SV has said that it is now time for Norway to withdraw from Afghanistan. My question to the representative Signe Øye is: Does the Labour Party agree with the opinions of representatives of the government parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e328	First to the broad agreement that I, as well as very many others, worked to get to, because I saw it as a great need, and I think the defense had earned it. When we didn't get it, it was for one reason: the opposition wanted bases in the east and west, which already appears in the 2009 budget that they are not willing to pay for. We took the responsibility, we laid down bases and took the costs with it, but we can also now deliver a budget in balance. As far as Afghanistan is concerned, the government has not said that we should withdraw from Afghanistan. We understand that we have to be there for a long time, but we also have to be very conscious of what we're going to do, so that it becomes an exit once in the future – we're going to build up the Afghan army, and we're going to build democracy in Afghanistan, so it'll be possible to be there without soldiers there.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e335	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e338	The Progress Party is concerned that the Defence Organisation should be able to handle the tasks that Stortinget imposes on the Defence. This we believe is a big point. An organisation must be dimensioned according to tasks and requirements, not vice versa. As it is today, I have a feeling that the tasks and assignments need to be adapted to the organisation. Of course it is to some extent as it must be, but a fixed size of the organisation must not limit the necessary tasks and tasks. With the organisation listed in the adopted long-term plan and the Government budget, there will be no real consistency between tasks and organisation. There will also be no correlation between the economy and the size and mission of the organisation. This will in the long term make the situation of the defence considerably worse than it already is. We see no contradictions between being deplorable and being represented by forces in larger parts of the country. Nor is it true that we are opposed to the modernisation of the organisation, as someone thinks. What's important to us is that the defense is of such size and quality that they have the power to solve the assigned tasks and tasks. Security policy is the Progress Party of the view that NATO is the cornerstone of our security and defence anchoring. However, the Progress Party will point to the importance of Norway finding a credible hold in the development of defence policy cooperation in the EU. Norway should take this into account, for example: actively stimulate the development of pooling and training for strengths from European countries. This can be further developed from among others. North Sea cooperation, but also through other cooperation with the EU. Today's defense is based on another concept an earlier one. The new defence concept is covered by a new holistic approach, networked defence strength. The goal is for Norwegian soldiers to be able to find, share and trade on the basis of information about the enemy. We see this as an appropriate and forward-looking strategy. The challenge is that this requires both a strong economy and a lot of training. We're concerned that the defense should have access to appropriate technology, and we're willing to give money to this, as to the rest of the defense. In the wake of the amended defence concept, it has also been necessary to introduce new doctrines for the Defence Organisation. The new Doctrine Development is a tool to describe the military theoretical basis for the forthcoming transformations. In this context, it is essential that NATO doctrines form the basis for our national doctrines. It is therefore essential that national documents have not been developed to replace allied doctrines, but that they should complement them according to national circumstances by providing profound operational guidelines based on specific Norwegian political, demographic, organisational, topographical and climatic conditions. We are concerned that this is being followed up and thereby reflecting our special challenges based on our geopolitical relationships. We are concerned that Norway appears to be a stable partner to our allies. It is important that Norway continues to carry out foreign missions and cooperate with our allies, so that the defence has a relevant experience base in order to be able to operate coordinated with allied nations in the event of war and crisis, as well as operations of the species we have seen in recent years. We are concerned with engagement in foreign operations that it is necessary to see the mission as a whole, also considering the duration of the exposure. This has consequences for what operations we should engage in. As we see it, it's important to be able to have a continuity of engagement. This gives a signal that Norway has a stable and firm policy on engagement with allies. The size of exposures is determined by available resources. We will stress that whether or not our soldiers are going to operate abroad, they need education, training and practice. The training in the Defence must be relevant to the tasks and tasks to be performed by the Defence. Increasingly advanced equipment requires many ways more of the soldiers today than before. Training is therefore becoming increasingly technical and challenging. This therefore leads to an escalation of the number of engaged soldiers. We are concerned that these soldiers and commanders should have predictability in their careers and a good working environment. We view the reserve officers as a great resource for the defense, especially in the context of foreign operations, and hope the government follows this up in a good way. In the case of operational capabilities in the Defence, the state, as we know, is very limited initially. Therefore, it came as a great surprise that the government had decided to initiate the hijacking of our operational MTBs that were intended to be operational until 2015. As we perceived it when the Storting granted SEK 1 billion for the modernisation of the MTBs, the old, modernized MTBs were to be phased out as new ones were phased in. As of today, we do not have any new MTBs operational, and this means that we do not have any MTB weapons operationally. According to the opinion of the Progress Party, this is very unfortunate. During the participation of the MTBs in operations outside Lebanon, we saw that these vessels were well suited for, among other things. traffic control. We therefore believe that these MTBs could well have been a major resource off the coast of Somalia to secure ships against piracy. So it didn't work that way, and it's very regrettable to a ship's nation like Norway. The committee chairman has already said a few things about Olavsvern and Jørstadmoen and head of INI. That's what the Progress Party ends up all the time. It is also in the position set out in the proposed decision on this subject by the Progress Party and the Right. We would like to focus on the matter, because we believe that this is very unclear from the documents and from the Government's side, and we feel insecure especially with regard to INI and how head INI should be. We would like to clarify this, and we are therefore proposing to put it into practice. Veterans are also mentioned in the articles here. The Progress Party would like to join. We think you might have said even more in the position, but we've tried to focus on this and would like to clarify to them that this is something that the committee has taken very seriously. We now assume that the government is taking an even firmer grip on this. They have already started an affordable process around it, but there needs to be a much stronger focus on veterans, who have been a matter for many years that we have not done enough with, and where many feel very insecure. The Progress Party is, moreover, the only party on the Stortinget that wants a real increase in the defence budget. We want this because we believe the defence organization is too small as it is today. We believe that the defence suffers from a lack of material and sufficient means of operation. In order for the defence to be equipped to meet the challenges we can expect the defence to solve, as said, the Progress Party wants to increase the appropriations for defence. We are of the opinion that Norway must stand strongly armed against threats to infrastructure and soft targets. So in our alternative budget, we want to increase NSM's operating resources by 53 million. kr. In our opinion, the defence should have a significant presence in North Norway, including Finnmark. The army thus has an important task and therefore needs to be secured enough resources to have the necessary structure in the northern regions. In this regard, the government has announced that the army structure must be strengthened by 400 soldiers. Furthermore, there is already an urgent need for 500 new orders to the Army to solve the tasks imposed on the Army. We therefore want to increase the Army's budget by 750 million in our alternative budget. kr. In our alternative budget, we have also agreed to create a new battalion in line with the Telemark Battalion – which we hope the Government will be able to follow up. This is to relieve our soldiers who are in sharp foreign service, not least in Afghanistan, and to strengthen our presence in Norwegian territory. The defence is in the process of introducing new frigates, leading to a sharp increase in the need for operational means. Preparations for the phase-in of new MTBs will also be charged to the Maritime Defence budget. Therefore, in our alternative budget, we want to increase the operating budget of the Maritime Defence Agency by 400 million. kr. As far as air defence is concerned, it is important to take into account increased costs associated with the phase-in of new transport aircraft and increased air surveillance associated with Russian activity. Therefore, in our alternative budget, we want to increase the operating budget of the Air Force by 180 million. kr. Signe Eye mentioned in his post transport aircraft and was critical of the Advance Party in this way. Then I just have to remind Sign Eye that as long as I have been on Stortinget – and that is now almost 12 years – we have repeatedly, almost every year, suggested buying new transport aircraft, which the Workers' Party has voted against on equal occasions. We have had very good offers on new transport aircraft, but the Workers' Party has repeatedly voted against this. We still believe that the plane we bought is a good plane, but it's not the right plane. As Signe Eye well knows, we believe that we were going to buy a completely different plane. We might not have got it at the same time, but still. It doesn't help to buy a plane that doesn't have the capacities we think it should have, just because we can get it very quickly. We also believe it is necessary to strengthen the capacity, level of education and training of Home Affairs. Therefore, in our alternative budget, we want to strengthen the operating budget of the Home Protection Agency by 130 million. kr. We see today's threat situation, with major and complex security challenges and with major intelligence challenges. We therefore want to strengthen this operating budget by 37 million in our alternative budget. kr. We are also concerned that the FLO is not able to deliver the material and services the operational departments demand. We are concerned about Norwegian defence as a result of FLO's lack of funds to hire personnel to make purchases and take care of other tasks related to logistics at the Defence Department. The Progress Party therefore wishes to strengthen the operational budget by 100 million in its alternative budget. kr. We see the need to strengthen the capacity, level of education and presence of the Coast Guard. We therefore want to strengthen the Coast Guard operating budget by 350 million in our alternative budget. kr. This would lead to a strengthening of the defence budget of approx. 2 billion in 2009. We are concerned that the defence must get the material that is best suited to the task of the defense at all times. In this context, it is necessary to increase material acquisitions in order to adequately equip the Defence against the criteria given by the various missions. Therefore, in our alternative budget, we want to strengthen Item 45, Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance by an additional NOK 2 billion, through the foreign budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e388	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e391	After what I understand, the Progress Party is very critical of much of the transition that is taking place in Defence, because this creates too much change. The answer the party gives is much more money and get changes. Then I ask, how does the representative Width think it works on the organisation and the employees when it is invited from his party representatives to rematch only days after the adoption of a new long-term plan? Creates such predictability? Is the representative of Width behind the signals for rematching the establishment of the Joint Operational Headquarters in the north and the relocation of the inspectors-general, among others. to Bardufoss?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e398	Yes, I can answer this. We stand behind the counter when it comes to moving FOHK. We stand behind the counter when it comes to moving the inspectors. Otherwise, I also say in my post that we are in favour of modernising the defence, we are in favour of reorganization in a proper way. But we believe that this has gone too fast, and it has made the defence personnel today feel very insecure. For the representative Arnesen it must seem remarkable that we have also gone to the step of taking a rematch on Olavsverm. I can't ask the representative any questions, but it could be very interesting to know what the representative from the north thinks about it – if it wouldn't be timely, and if he can ask behind it. I hope he can come back to it in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e407	We are all concerned with the defence tasks and organisation. It is also the Progress Party. But then the Progress Party says that everything has become significantly worse. It is possible, but I want to say that we in the government party add up to the most possible operational capability based on what we allow here in the house. A major effort now being made is to reduce investment, thus securing the activity and not least liquidity. If the liquidity is poor, that will affect the activity. We know that we've got a ratio of 80-20, where we politicians set up with 20 pst. Now we're going to have 400 million dollars. Is that the 80 percent width believer will make everything so much worse – that is, the one who goes on the defense's own ability to become more effective? Width is coming today to agree that we politicians are setting up with ours. But doesn't Width believe that the defense is able to set up with its share?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e414	To the last one, the defense does. I guess there's no organization in the state -- to call it that -- that's really putting up the defenses today to make their business more efficient. They've noticed that on the body, and they've done some damage to it, in my opinion. Therefore, we cannot carry on this reorganisation that the Government has to add up because too little money is allocated, both for operation and for maintenance of the Defense. It's getting worse. Everyone who works in the Defense Department seems to have gotten worse -- to use that expression -- because there's less resources, less money, less finances. That is why the Progress Party has put forward proposals to increase the budget by DKK 2 billion. We think that would allay Jacobsen's concerns in a proper way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e421	I have three questions for the representative, Width. One concerns his thinking about the possible use of MTBs in the waters outside Somalia. The Progress Party is likely to face a priority problem between Somalia, Chad, Darfur and Congo. What priority will they take? The second question is: do we have the international framework that allows us to be effective there, among other things. with regard to potential prisoners in this system? And then I have one last question, about Reitan in Bodø. Is it not right to place the headquarters where the northern regions have a greater and more central importance?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e430	In the case of the MTBs, I pointed out in my post that per. Today we have no MTBs that are operational. The government has gone to the step of cutting up the old MTBs that we've spent $1 billion on upgrading, and that we could most likely use for certain missions in Somalia. Now the Progress Party is not so much concerned with sending neither one thing nor the other to these foreign assignments that Samuelsen specifies. We believe that it is important to deal with Afghanistan, make the effort we are going to do there, and not spread on all fronts, because we simply do not have the capacity to do so. So, as of today, we have nothing to send, either by crew or by a marine vessel. In the case of Reitan, it does not help the operational part of the northern areas that a headquarters is moved from Stavanger to Bodø, and that someone moves out of a mountain in Stavanger and into a mountain in Bodø. So it doesn't help the operative part, which the government seems to be so busy with. So we don't think of that as a good thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e439	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e442	There are great days and great celebrations in Oslo this week. We're getting confirmation and signing, along with a hundred countries, a ban on class bombs. We are not concerned with disarmament between states, but we are concerned with humanitarian disarmament for the benefit of civilians. We know that everything from the St. Petersburg Declaration came, and further up, we've got conventions that protect soldiers. We also know that in these hundred years it has turned around, most civilians die in war. That is why, of course, the need to protect civilians from war has also increased. In this way, the security of the states is set up against the security of the individual. We're not looking to eliminate tension between states, but to civilize the warfare. This is a step in the right direction for human beings, and of course for the thousands, or I might say tens of thousands, of kids who might as a result of what's happening in Oslo today, should not pick up a bomb and get blown up in pieces. We have taken an important step, and not least I thought that the defense and their contribution to this has made Norway able to go ahead here. I myself had a breakthrough when I asked artillery officers in the Norwegian defense, and they said: Yes, Jacobsen it is quite possible to replace the weapons we have with another type of artillery to defend Norway. There is no problem. Of course, it costs a lot of money, but there's no problem doing it. We don't need class bombs to defend Norway. Then I was 100 pst. ensuring that this would be possible, and not least because of the defence, professional military and others. With the advice they gave on the road, it was possible for Norway as a nation to take this enormous step, to help individuals and, of course, to the human dignity. Then we have to deal with a budget. That's the last budget before a new choice, and that's the first budget in the long-term plan. It's very nice to be able to go to the elections and say that we don't do that to any other government before, we follow up what we said in the long-term plan. It's not like the other long-term plans, that there was only one 'think of a number' paper, and then we'll just forget it when the next choice comes – or most importantly, when the next budget comes. We bring in the money we promise, we even get half of them. It says respect. We're going to have to see the voters, and, of course, defence friends, in the eye. Let's do what we said we should do. Then, of course, we also have an increase with regard to the Army. We know the Army has been outraged, but we've done it. Then one can discuss for a long time whether it was enough, whether it was right, etc., but there is no doubt that there are several settings in the Army. No one can disprove that, and we're very proud from the SV's point of view of being part of it. And the defense of the sea is not at fault. In the previous period they were at berth. They weren't in a curve, but they were on a path. One might disagree or disagree that there might have been an action from the Maritime Defense, a bit to fire up here in the Storting and for the daring Council of State, but I'm not going to throw it away. But they were at berth, because they didn't have money, they claimed, to be where they were going to be, simply out on the sea with different tasks. Then we put forward a proposal for a fighter aircraft purchase. It's probably coming to the Storting before Christmas. I have to admit that the option that is presented is not exactly the way I thought it would be. But the government delivers too few completed a process, which one can discuss – and we'll discuss this – but we're actually doing it. Many years ago, one put it on ice. We show action. It's not just because we're a plural government, but it's also because when we see something leading, we do what we've seen lead, even if it can be internal inequality, but we do it. So this is going to be presented in a proper way and treated in Stortinget. On the home page, I also thought that we have come a long way. We can discuss a lot there, but I record HV participating in international operations. It's incredibly important to me. It's not like I'm necessarily going to have HV in Afghanistan or Africa or where it should be. But that's the background of experience that I want -- a 50-year-old from space that comes along with a 25-year-old, maybe a lawyer, an international law expert, who's never been out on anything military before. The connection between the two is something I believe out there, because the experience HV has, it's just completely invaluable to be able to evaluate a situation out there. An HV-man will know the importance of all civil organizations in a local place, will know that you need to have contact with everyone, while a youth will be taught their different skills. And together, HV will help us get more successful international operations. We've also done something about what, in my opinion, is the basis of the defense, the economy. We've had a Dalseid selection at work. We've put in place different kinds of measures to clean up economic mess. We're very close to the goal, but we've taken this seriously, and we've done something about it. There's nothing clever here, but we've said that we're taking this seriously. So I'm going to include such a self-evident thing as that we're not going to give away soldiers to INTOPS without anchoring in the UN Charter and a clear UN mandate. We're out of the OEF and out of Iraq. And I want to see the government that's willing to change these milestones in Norwegian security policy. We don't have luck in Africa yet, but we're trying. We didn't come to Darfur, but of course we're on our way back to the United Nations, and to get back to Africa and be there long-term and in a good way. Then we see that when our Councils, the Foreign Minister and the Minister of Defence, have been in NATO and represented Norway there, they have done good jobs and got through. When it comes to the rocket shield, one took with him what was the government's opinion, one had clear and clear opposition to it. It was taken into account in the negotiated declaration that came from NATO. So we see that this can be good in relation to the stress relief work. It will be exciting to see if the new Obama regime will continue to push rocket shields. We may find ourselves in a situation where Medvedev and Obama may agree that we should not deploy anything in Poland, the Czech Republic or Kaliningrad. At least Norway has been represented in a very good way. And then we also see that in relation to the extension of NATO, the Norwegian position has been holding on for a very, very long time. Of course, one has stated that NATO legislation must be followed, regardless of which country wants to enter. We now see that this is a success, not least at the last meeting that we had here last week, in which there was no provision in any way for anyone to enter before unexplained territorial and political conflicts have been resolved. One should follow the rules of the game in NATO. That's what will strengthen NATO in the long run, that one follows the drawn gleams, and not allow individual countries to push members in for the reason that one wants to achieve division, and maybe in the worst case, we should send Norwegian soldiers, Norwegian uniforms, like, for example. would be dependent on fighting Russian soldiers all the way on the other flank of where we are busy having a good relationship with Russia. Then, too, we've had a positive – and very important – impact with other strong NATO countries – the fact that we need to have contact with Russia, because what's happened lately is that NATO has seen itself on the sideline completely. And it might be strange that I, as NATO opponents, should be standing here and saying that NATO has to be careful to be relevant. For today the Russians are talking to all other capitals in Europe but via the NATO-Russia Council. There should be thought for those who are trying to push forward enmity between NATO and Russia. Norway is totally dependent on the defence alliance we're a member of, and that's going to be a part of ensuring our security, also has a good relationship with our big neighbor in the East, Russia. Then I register that the European Parliament has found it necessary to decide that we, for example: needs a new Arctic law. The law of the sea and international law no longer applies. There should be some reflection for those who believe that Norwegian security will be created in the second quarter of Brussels. I believe Norwegian interests have stood well, and will stand well, through the UN, international law and the law of the sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e478	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e481	The government parties, of which SV is an important and major part, have now gone in to buy American aircraft, which is not the case either. But for SV there must be something strange. A while ago, on February 28, we could read that the representative Jacobsen wanted Nordic defence cooperation, and he mentioned among other things. that the army should become Finnish, the Air Force should go to the Swedes, while Norway takes care of the Marine. The representative said the government is following up what they said they should do. Then the question is, how does the representative Jacobsen view what he said on February 28th – or maybe a few days before – and where do we see any trace of this in the government's draft budget? At least I don't see it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e489	Let's not argue about the date, but it was probably a date. What I did then was refer to the Finnish defense chief, and I tried to put it into a Norwegian reality. No one should think that if we e.g. ends up signing a contract with the American aircraft supplier, JSF, it will in any way damage Nordic cooperation. Nordic cooperation is identified through at least 18 points, and will continue throughout the heart. There is nothing to prevent it from continuing when it comes to airspace dome and that kind of task also with possibly American technology in place. Then we have always been in SV because we want the Swedish plane. It turned out not to hold water through that process when it comes to quality, price osb. We have to take note of that. Something else would not be to stand for what we have said all along, that everyone should try, we should have competition and not drive on autopilot, as the previous government of course offered.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e498	I think I'll first of all compliment Bjorn Jacobsen. I've been here a few decades, and I have to say I was turned off to hear an SV representative talk with such enthusiasm about a defence budget, whose level is high above what I've been used to hearing from SV, and enthusiasm for Norwegian efforts in NATO cooperation. He even used the formulation that we are dependent on the alliance, which is going to be involved in ensuring our security. So this became so far a good day. I just hope that SV does not fall back to old sins at the moment they are again out of government. If Jacobsen didn't want to answer that, I'll give him an alternative. He has previously expressed himself with great enthusiasm about the protection of the Olavs, and, as far as I can see, he is really in favour of it. Is there anything that prevents him from going along with the Right Party and the Advance Party to ensure that that closure does not happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e507	That's it. The representative Petersen also knows very well that if he is a member of a government cooperation, there is a burden and a break with them. So to Olavsværn. The big discussion that needs to come, with which I also hope Right will be and will contribute when it comes to Oil Protection, will go to set it up against the logistic ship to come when to replace the Valkyrie. Then we get the question: do we want a base that is land-based, or do we want a logistics ship of NOK 2-3 billion? There's the choice there, and there's these two things that have to be set up against each other, because then there's a real choice between being offshore or being onshore. I think Olavsværn will stand in that kind of debate. I also think it's a security policy choice if we want to be in the north, or if we want to be around as much as possible. I welcome – it is not too late yet – the fact that the right hand is also the best way to get the political debate up, to set up a protection against a possible new logistics ship. It may be the realistic possibility for Olavs protection to become the mountains.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e514	The government is showing action, said the representative Jacobsen from SV. To the extent that the Christian People's Party agrees. In some areas, the Government has shown action. What also delights us is to hear the SV representative speak out so positively about the defence policy that this government has put forward. This means that SV has come significantly closer to the future of its defence policy. Even NATO membership gave Jacobsen a positive opinion, and it's been a long time since we've heard from this pulpit. My question is, is it that the underlying here is that the flight purchase is the happy madness, and SV wants out of Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e523	To take the last first: there is now a process of programme work in SV, as in any other party, before the national meeting. What has been proposed is that one should withdraw the ISAF solar data. Reading a little further down, one will see that there is a double decision that lies there, that Norwegian soldiers should contribute to a United Nations context to help create security. This is a proposal we are going to discuss in counties and communities around the country towards the national meeting, which will take a final decision about it. Of course, this country's meeting decision will involve us in new government negotiations when we have won the elections to the cottage, but the national meeting will first have to decide on this. So I would just like to make a brief comment that I clearly said that I was a NATO opponent, but one could be opposed to something and still be involved in improving it and doing it better when one first comes along.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e530	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e533	There is a long tradition of having a broad defence policy consensus in the Stortinget. That is why the Christian People's Party regrets that in parts of the long-term plan, as the Government proposed in the spring of 2008, we were unable to obtain a broad majority. Stability and predictability are particularly important in the field of defence and security policy. While there is still a broad political consensus on the fundamental aspects of defence policy, the Stortinget took important decisions on the long-term plan by a narrow majority. This is also reflected in the remarks in the budget position. The Christian People's Party will point to the important efforts of Norwegian forces in international operations. We believe Norway has a responsibility to contribute to international peace and stability. In addition, these operations also contribute to strengthening our own security policy position. There is a difficult situation in Afghanistan, and Norwegian soldiers are at high risk. It will express great respect and gratitude to the Christian People's Party. When SV did not surprisingly say this week that they no longer support the Norwegian soldiers to contribute in Afghanistan, as we were now confirmed by the representative Jacobsen, I would say that the Christian People's Party nevertheless assumes that the Government stands 100 pst. behind the Norwegian troops and holding a tough course as long as there is a need for our presence, and as long as we have an available capacity to be there. We have many challenges in following up our veterans in a good way, both on the defence side and on the civil side. We need to take over the unforeseeable consequences of war on our soldiers, and the need for a systematic follow-up of all war veterans to ensure the detection of possible damage at the earliest opportunity. The Christian People's Party is looking forward to the presentation by the Stortinget of an overall case concerning the veteran policy. There is a very large debate in the media at the moment that veterans strongly criticise the treatment they have received. I would therefore ask the Minister of Defence to speed up the announcement that Stortinget will receive on the veto policy, so that we can discuss this matter here in the Chamber. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to underline the key role played by the United Nations as the basis for Norwegian defence and foreign policy. International security challenges must find their solution based on the UN Charter, and international operations must be internationally anchored through the UN Security Council. The Government states in its proposal that it will actively increase Norwegian participation in UN-led peace operations in 2009 and that the focus should continue to be on Africa in this context. There is an alarming need in Congo. State Council Solheim and former government council Haga have been among those who have supported the Christian People's Party's request that the government should at least seriously assess what Norway can contribute to the Congo. The government has for a while rejected the United Nations request for Norway to contribute with UN forces in the war-torn country. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has now stated that sending Norwegian soldiers to the Congo next year may be relevant. I believe that the Minister for Defence will touch on this issue in his intervention later in the debate. The Christian People's Party is concerned that Homeland Departments maintain satisfactory levels of practice and training. We are therefore questioning that the Government in the draft budget is adding up to a reduced level of exercise in the Home Protection Agency for 2009. The Christian People's Party fears negative consequences of not being put up to practice the reinforcement and follow-up forces until next year. If most of the HV forces are not to exercise in 2009, we are afraid it will destroy capacity and morale. We cannot accept that the reorganisation should prevent a satisfactory level of training for Home Security even until next year. Norway has a number of challenges in the north. The Christian People's Party believes that the presence and activity of the defence in the northern regions must be maintained at a high level. The Christian People's Party therefore insists that Olavs protection should not be laid down. Oil protection is the northernmost maritime military base of NATO in Europe and has significant real and potential value in the North Sea effort based on the presence and operational military capacity. This closure gives a very unfortunate signal and weakens the allied presence in a region identified by Norway as its main strategic focus. The Christian People's Party will therefore vote in favour of the proposal of the Progress Party and the Right – XIV in the vote – on the maintenance of Olavs protection. The Christian People's Party will also vote in favour of the proposal from the same parties – XV in the vote – that the Government present a separate case on the transition in the FLO. It was foreseen when we dealt with the long-term plan, and it is quite natural when such extensive conversion is to be carried out, that the Stortinget receives a thorough explanation. Finally, in two long-term plans, the Storting has decided to bring together the ICT environment of the Defence at Jørstadmoen. It has always been the premise that the boss should belong to the environment at Jørstadmoen. The Christian People's Party is therefore also voting in favour of the proposal – XIII in the vote – that INI and its related staff functions should be established at Jørstadmoen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e561	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e564	The representative, Jan Sahl, said in yesterday's debate on the Social Security Communication that there would be a real North Region effort, it had to be strongly leaning. This is something I fully agree with, and there is still a lot to be done to get a good North Region bet. Is the representative of Sahl satisfied that the Christian People's Party will not bet on the North in terms of defence? Is the representative Sahl comfortable with the strong resistance of the Christian People's Party to the move of FOHK northwards, and the resistance to moving out the inspectors general, for example. that the army's general inspector is being moved to Bardufoss? I do not agree with what I asked the Progress Party: Will the Christian People's Party support a rematch on this if it is proposed, as we have heard that the Progress Party will do?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e573	The representative Arnesen and I have a common desire to strengthen the northern regions. I'm happy to belong to a party where it's opening up to have differences of opinion. For my part, I voted to move FOHK to Bodø, and I am happy that it is in Bodø. At the same time, I can admit from this pulpit that the Christian People's Party will not reverse that decision. As far as I can see from the setting that is on the table today, it also gives no indication that someone will take a rematch related to that particular decision. Then the Christian People's Party in the things we're facing is going to make sure that the fight for the North is going to get the necessary defense equipment, with the challenges we have there.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e580	My impression of the Christian People's Party is that the Christian People's Party is to trust when it really applies. Eight years ago in this room, we actually got the first plural decision against class bombs. It was submitted by SV, but thank you for the Christian People's Party's daring parliamentary leader, Steensnæs – it was a bit of a vote root – and that Haakon Blankenborg from the Labour Party joined, it was actually a plurality for what today, eight years later, was signed by 100 countries. So the Christian People's Party is to trust when it really applies to the important things here. But can we count on the Christian People's Party in the future to increase disarmament, work more against nuclear weapons and, of course, gain a more humane value? Can we then count on the Christian People's Party in defence policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e586	I thank you for the gesture I got from the representative Jacobsen, that the Christian People's Party is to trust. I would like to stress that I believe that the Christian People's Party and the SV have quite similar views on disarmament issues, except on the question of what defence policy relationship Norway should have. The Christian People's Party is concerned with peace issues. The Christian People's Party is pleased with what happened yesterday, and the Christian People's Party can be counted on in any question about disarmament in the future. Here, I think, we have quite similar points of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e593	I heard with interest the answer given by the representative Jan Sahl to the Workers' Party spokesman Bendiks H. Arnesen on the question of the Christian People's Party's defence policy in the North. I also note with interest that Jan Sahl dissented in relation to the position of his own party both – as far as I understood it – in connection with the Inspector General of the Army's location and the transfer of the headquarters of the Army to Retan. My question is: does the representative Jan Sahl not get a problem when he is going to campaign and present his party's position on just these two challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e600	Whether it's the Central Party or the Christian People's Party that gets the biggest problem when you're going to campaign, I'm not going to decide here. I can at least stand up straight in my own country and say that the Northern Region bet has been high on the agenda both for the representative Jan Sahl and for the Christian People's Party. I have clearly stated here that the Christian People's Party will not take any action on the location of FOHK. Then I want to say that the representative from the Central Party has a certain problem explaining that he has been involved in shutting down Olavsverm, which is now so much media attention in North Norway. If we add plus and minus, we can probably meet both resistance and follow-up in the election campaign we're going to meet.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e607	The cord shift is over. The next speaker is André N. Skelstad. Sorry, the president jumped over Alf Ivar Samuelsen. It was totally wrong. Please, Alf Ivar Samuelsen – and then André N. Skkelstad. It depends on the size of the parties, and the president has to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e612	I'm glad it goes according to the size of the parties – and not people! Let me first join in what the representative Bjørn Jacobsen said about the class weapons. It may seem a bit paradoxical that when you go into a defence budget debate, you express joy at the fact that a type of weapon will hopefully be scrapped in the future all over the world. When I express joy over it, it is because this is seen as a humanitarian measure. We have seen the tragedies that civilians have experienced in war. It is enough to remember what was said about the situation in Laos – 20–30 years after the country was bombed with class weapons. So this is positive. But then to today's theme, which is the defence budget. The Central Party considers that the proposed 2009 defence budget follows up the security and defence policy areas of the Soria Moria Declaration and the adopted long-term plan for the period 2009-2012. There is a clear commitment to strengthening the defence budget, by 620 million in real terms. kr compared to the 2008 budget. Of these, 400 million will. be directly targeted at the objective of the adopted long-term plan. Thus, the budget line is already allocated to the first year of the plan half of the 800 million increase in appropriations. kr, as provided. The budget is particularly important to strengthen the presence in the north, not only for the Maritime Defense and Coast Guard, but also for the Army. In 2009, a major joint operational exercise with allied participation in Northern and Troms shall be carried out. The high level of military participation in Afghanistan continues, while emphasising other measures that can help the Afghans to take responsibility for their own security. The aim is to increase Norway’s military contribution to UN operations, with priority for operations in Africa. It is important to continue the development of the Army, with special emphasis on increasing staffing in order to strengthen small and manned vulnerable environments that are important for participation in operations. Furthermore, selected joint capacities in the areas of sanitation, water flow, interconnection and information and communication technologies shall be strengthened in order to enhance the ability of relevant operational and supply support to units in operations. In the 2009 budget, senior management will be further developed. In addition to the building reinforcement, basic measures and a number of other measures adopted in the long-term plan are under way. These actions are implemented in order to continue to release resources internally in the defence sector and to use them to strengthen operational activities. The emphasis is on further developing human resources policies, including facilitating increased female participation and diversity in defence, strengthening the rights of veterans and ensuring a better follow-up of individual employees and their families. The budget provides the opportunity to follow up the Action Plan on attitudes, ethics and management and to facilitate sound and sound financial management and management. A more efficient logistics customer support service is provided in the Defence Agency, with clearer governance and responsibilities. Nordic cooperation in defence and security policy has a good dynamic and is characterised by developments in a number of areas. Significant emphasis is placed on the non-exclusive nature of Nordic cooperation and all projects are open to all five countries. Close Nordic cooperation is in addition to Norway’s commitments and cooperation in NATO and in addition to Sweden and Finland’s obligations towards the EU. At the operational level, an agreement was reached at the Nordic Defence Minister’s meeting in May 2008 to work for a common Nordic strength for a UN operation in Africa.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e638	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e641	From the day one, the government has talked a lot about the defence being in the north area – a lot of effort was needed on the presence of the marines in the large area, which has also been noted many times by the Center Party. I have two questions: how does the Center Party now view the need to maintain the Olav Protection, as requested by the Advance Party and the Right? Is the representative Samuelsen expecting problems in the election campaign on this last question?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e648	I find that the defence budget has now been increasing for some time – after a hunger period that we have left behind. There's no doubt about what was the Central Party's original wish: to keep the Olav protection. But within the given framework of which we were able to achieve a little increase, it was not possible to prioritise Olav protection among the other priorities we had.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e655	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e658	Norwegian security is best ensured by contributing to peace, freedom and democracy in as many countries as possible, combined with a real will for fair international development. Increased trade, interaction, cooperation and dialogue are the best means of peace between countries. The resource wealth and geopolitical location of Norway require both independent defence and binding international defence cooperation. Norway’s position as an energy exporter and management of natural resources in large sea areas also presupposes Norwegian security policy. It is important that Norway is able to assert sovereignty and sovereign rights and exercise powers in Norwegian regions. This requires a complex and strong presence in the northern regions. The defence must be a professional, responsive and dynamic organisation. Within the political objectives and the economic and ethical frameworks set by the Storting, the defence must be as free as possible to structure and organise itself. The location of military forces and stations shall not be used as a district policy instrument. It is also important that we have a protection of homes throughout the country which has a territorial responsibility but which can also assist military presence in vulnerable areas. Personnel participating in operations abroad shall be confident that they will receive the follow-up they need. I am therefore pleased that work on strengthening the rights of veterans continues in 2009. I see, among other things: until the proposal to legislate the follow-up of veterans. Veterans from international operations have not been sufficiently caught by today’s social security regime. A relevant question has been whether Nav is the appropriate body to deal with veterans with mental sensitivities after efforts in, for example, Asia or Africa. I don't necessarily think so. I therefore welcome the legislative proposal that is being consulted, which aims to legislate for the follow-up of veterans up to one year after the end of the service. The Veteran Act is now approaching treatment here in Stortinget. It will catch up with the veterans in a better way, and hopefully it will help them to stop feeling out of their health system, as many have done. One problem here is that it may take many years before veterans realize that it is time for the defense to do the damage. The longer it takes, the harder it is to prove. Therefore, I believe that the defence's obligation to follow up veterans should be considered extended to more than one year. Other measures to improve the care of veterans are also under way. The following may be mentioned: strengthening the psychological/psychiatry capacity of the Sanitary Service of the Defence Agency establishing an independent oversight service of the Defence Health Service abroad The purchase of Bäreia veterants on Kongswinger continued the financial compensation scheme for psychological damage These are measures that I fully support, and which I believe we owe our veterans for their efforts. These measures will ensure that our veterans receive the necessary follow-up and legal recognition. This really should have come a long time ago. In addition, there are measures that will help ensure recruitment to future Norwegian contributions to international military operations. Much indicates that the demand for Norwegian soldiers will increase in the coming years. I have noticed that, on the basis of an overall assessment, as it is now called, the Government has found it appropriate to set aside something less for material investment in 2009 than the long-term plan provides, in order to ensure the necessary resources for high priority tasks. The government commits to increase these appropriations beyond the planning period. The reduction is mainly related to the reallocation of funds for more priority activities within the defence budget. I'm concerned about the level of investment within the Defence. The long-term programme launched in 2009 is based on an annual reduction of DKK 1.6 billion compared to the current long-term level. The reductions in the 2009 draft budget and the proposal now presented by the Government in St.prp. No In addition, 14 for 2008-2009 on redisposals are added. I believe that slowing down investment now could make it difficult to achieve the investment targets set in the long-term programme. We are not faced with clear, unambiguously defined enemy images, such as during the Cold War. Hardly anyone has been able to predict the big changes that have taken place in our security image. This means that we have to strive for a defence structure that takes this into account. It must be so robust that it allows us to adapt to the changes that are taking place. Norwegian security policy must be designed in such a way that we are able to defend our fundamental security interests, including with our allies. The security environment will be more diffuse in the future. Security policy must therefore take into account a broad and more complex risk picture characterised by a moving transition between peace, conflict and war. Threats can arise and develop quickly and without any special warning. Non-governmental actors may threaten security and involve Norway in conflicts. A broader understanding of the concept of security plays a major role in the tasks of military forces. The left believes that NATO should be our most important defence alliance. Within the framework of NATO cooperation, the Left considers that Norway should seek closer defence policy cooperation with the Nordic countries and the EU. The conflict in Georgia has led to increased tension in Russia-West relations. It reminds us that we are facing a neighbor who is prepared to use raw power to achieve its foreign policy objectives. I think it's a wise decision by NATO this week to resume an informal dialogue with Russia. The left is a party that believes in dialogue to solve problems, and it is not in the interests of Norway or NATO to break contact with Russia. This shall not contribute to giving Russia acceptance and legitimacy for what they have done in Georgia. It shall keep an important channel open to avoid unnecessary stresses. We should continue to say clearly to Russia about what we mean Russia's new neighbouring country policy confronts us with new challenges, not least in the north. We have good cooperation with Russia at different levels in the north. It should remain an objective to continue this practicalised cooperation regardless of the evolution of economic conditions in relations between Russia and the West. Perhaps we can see the possibility of a new Norwegian bridge builder role? NATO is facing new challenges in Afghanistan, where the security situation is deteriorating. A stabilisation of the country that can provide the basis for NATO to withdraw its forces does not appear realistic in the short term. Furthermore, there is a pressure to put Norwegian soldiers and equipment into Africa, including in particular Congo. This shows that the limited resources available to our defence are stretched thinly in different directions. With them we must monitor and defend our own territory, including large sea areas in the north. Furthermore, we are going to participate in international military operations in Central Asia and Africa. There is still a strong need for rural strengths that can also contribute to operations abroad. Strengths are the largest proportion of such contributions. The left therefore believes that the Army must be strengthened in the long run. Norway should continue to participate actively in international military operations. This should be done on the basis of an assessment of each operation based primarily on the interests of peace and freedom in the region concerned. For the Left, it is a guiding principle that international military operations should not take place without a mandate from the United Nations. Military operations must be closely coordinated with humanitarian and development assistance. This means that in our defence planning we need to find the right balance between efforts at home and outside. Such an exercise becomes extra demanding in the light of the major geopolitical changes taking place in our time. In an early part of the debate, the Chairman of the Committee said, inter alia: that it was unfortunate to trump through some of the decisions that happened in ours. I very much agree with that, among other things. as regards what happened then in relation to Værnes. I would also like to make an explanation of vote, since we are not on the committee. The left will support the proposal – XIII in the vote – on the head of the INI and the proposal – XV in the vote – on the conversion of the FLO.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e718	The representative, André N. Skkelstad, then gave an explanation of vote on the proposals for decisions to which he now referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e724	The left, as is not known in the committee, is therefore interesting to read the financial position, which tells how the Left is in this situation in relation to the Defence. This is quite amazing, but not surprising – for again, as in all other years of this period, the Left Defence Budget is ageing by taking away the defence budget and giving it to other good purposes. That's almost 100 million. kr. The Left must be allowed to do that. But it certainly doesn't correspond to all the parties that we heard from the representatives of the Left when we had the long-term plan for treatment, and that's after all only six months ago. They voted to maintain all bases plus to increase in most areas, and it seemed as if they had enough money for everything. Then my question to the Left is: is this the moment of truth, or what has happened in the last few months with the Left's will to prioritize the defense?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e731	The willingness to give priority to the defence is absolute. I expect Signe Eye to think about what we do in relation to the sale of defence buildings, which she also brought up with the representative Dørum the last time we debated about this. In the case of the installations concerned, the Left will return to it. Just as the chairman of the committee, Jan Petersen, said in his statement, we think it would be wrong to deal with the things that we explicitly disagree with – first of all, with the protection of Olavs and HV Værnes. We will come back to this on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e738	There is a significant difference in the position of the Financial Committee as regards the Right and the Advance Party on the one hand and the Left and Christian People's Party on the other. After all, the right has already added 500 million. kr and can defend that Olavs protection and other bases can be ingested, although I believe that it is far from enough. But the left cutter as well as the appropriations. Now I heard that the representative did not allow himself to be rude enough to vote for the Olav protection, and that's good. Nevertheless, it's far from saying that you still want to maintain all the bases, which you were talking very much about half a year ago, to take almost 100 million. NOK from the Defence, as it is now added up to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e743	With respect to reporting, the representative does not want to say where we are going to cover these cuts, and it is when selling the defence facilities that are no longer needed, for example. those who have died earlier. And that's also part of the truth, which the representative doesn't point to here.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e748	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e751	The 2009 budget proposal provides a significant boost for the defence sector and is an important step towards the goals we have set for the period 2009-2012. For 2009, the Government has proposed to increase the budget by a total of 620 million. kr in relation to the 2008 budget. I would like to stress that this comes at the top of compensation for wage and price increases, and is therefore a real increase in the defence budget. The long-term plan adopted before the summer foresees an increase in the budgetary level over the period of 800 million. kr by the end of 2012. So the first year in the long term, we already meet half of this economic goal. I would remind you that the most important thing about the new long-term plan, by the Government, has been to create the necessary balance between resources, tasks and structure. The head of the Defence Committee was concerned that it was not adequately guarded, but here I would like to stress that we said that it would be a stepping-up in the period, and so we have taken half the gap already. This shows that the government is betting on the defense and is serious about what we have said in the long-term plan. In order to further increase the purchasing power of the Defence Agency, we implement, in accordance with the agreed long-term plan, a number of measures that provide cheaper operations in the Defence Agency, including a more rational exploitation and operation of garrisons and camps. In 2009, 475 million will. be released and directed towards the priority activity. Together with the proposed 620 million increase in appropriations. So this will increase the purchasing power of the Defense next year by NOK 1.1 billion. Let me then turn to answering a part of what has emerged during the debate. Many have come back to the process of the long-term plan, and the head of the Defence Committee, Jan Petersen, said again that this had been a closed process. I can't see that there's been a closed process. We had, in addition to the defense chief's own work, a defence policy selection with representatives of all the parties on the Stortinget. A large amount of work was done throughout the country. I expect that there was good cooperation between the Right Representative and the other representatives on the Stortinget. We just did this to create a broad ownership of the long-term plan. As far as the disagreements in the long-term plan are concerned, it was not about the large lines, about the major security policy lines that, after all, form the basis for the long-term plan. It's more about a change in the perception of which camps and bases to keep. I would like to stress that the Government is concerned that we should have a broad consensus on defence and security policy. It was also said that the budget presented this year provides less information than has been the case in the past. What we've been doing this year is tightening up the budget, so we don't have so many repetitions. That's why it's a little bit thinner. But it's as good at detailing as it's been before, and it's as good at detailing as it's been under previous governments. Jan Petersen also asked questions about it being trained, practiced, and sailed enough. Here again, I would like to say that what underlies the long-term plan is a stepping up until 2012. It is demanding to be in the transition phase. The 2009 budget has therefore not solved all the problems, but we are on a good path towards a balance between activity and resources, which we have not been in the current long-term plan. It was asked why the government chooses to buy a KV vessel. To put it this way: if the government buys a coastguard vessel, it is for two reasons: it is to increase operational capability, i.e. to have greater operational flexibility, and it is to improve the operating economy. Therefore, it is assessed. That would be the only reason to buy – but we see that it would give us more flexibility. It's probably the Inner Coast Guard who performs internal waters tasks, and it's hardly like walking with cannons for fishing nets. This is carried out by the smaller vessels of the Coast Guard. Then there's a big concern among a number of parties about Olav protection. Then I would like to remind you that even though the government has gone in to wind up the Olavs protection, we have three bases in the north: we have Ramsund, Trotdenes and Sortland. But the most important thing to really be visible in the north is the increase in sailing days, increasing by 158 days from 2008 to 2009, an increase of 59 pst. – from 265 in the current year to 423 in 2009. In the case of the FLO, the reorganisation envisaged is only a reorganisation to further develop the FLO in order to improve the performance of its core tasks. It concerns the provision, maintenance and supply of materials and supplies to the defence sectors. Again, it is a fundamental prerequisite for strengthening the operational capability of the defence. Cooperation with employee organisations has been very important here. We've added up to that, and of course we'll do that in this kind of a way. I would like to point out that when the FLO was last reorganised, this was recorded and outlined in the proposal for 2005. It was not presented to Stortinget as a matter of its own. I also want to stress that it is not about reducing with a single job in the number of employees. It's just that the defense is going to be better at doing the job. The representative Width once again mentioned the MTBs. I want to say that the government would continue the MTB weapon and therefore phase in and use the new MTBs. But it is clear that we cannot use new MTBs without having the staff with us to train new MTBs. With regard to the upgrade that has been mentioned in the past, which I have heard many times, not only today, but also in the past, it is a matter of upgrading that was absolutely necessary for the MTBs to sail in the years that they have sailed after upgrading, which has been an important period, where they have also made use of the Defence both in Norway and internationally. So there are a lot of people who have taken up this INI area -- the ICT area -- in the Defence. The ICT area is perhaps one of the most decentralised areas in the defence sector. It's never been the government's proposal to bring together the physical ICT environments in the defense, because they're per. definition spread, they must per. the definition is spread. Nor has it ever been the Government's intention or intention to remove the functions and competences of Jørstadmoen. On the contrary, we have said that we want to build on it. But when we go in to collect the entire ICT area, both what's at Jørstadmoen, and what's very many other places, and where it's about about. 1,200 jobs, we think it's right that the manager of the entire area sits in Oslo. I just want to point out at the end, because I see that the time is running fast, as the representative Jan Sahl said. He said he hoped that the government would support our forces in international operations. I can assure you that it does the government. The government is behind our forces, but it's also making a big deal, which is a very important signal to the soldiers we have out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e792	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e795	The consensus on defence and security policy, as the Council of State said, is great in this House, and we agree on that. Even SV has now gradually softened in that area. Then in my previous life I have driven a lot with sales and marketing, and then I know that repetitions work at the end – then it finally goes into the customer, only you repeat it enough. That's why I repeat what's happening to the Marine, because I never get a profound, good enough response from the Council of State in particular to the MTBs, which she said I almost mentioned to boredom. But I'll do it anyway. Then I ask: What was the government's motive to hijack the operational MTBs, all the time we had no other capacity and they were going to sail until 2015? When does the Council expect the new MTBs to be operational, and how are we going to train these teams that now have nothing to do with training?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e804	It was this government that also said that we should use the new MTBs. In the phase in which one goes from one capacity to another – and here we have changed material – a training period is required for the new material. It is the same staff who sailed the old MTBs, who are now to sail the new MTBs. They cannot do double work; they must concentrate on rehearsing the new MTB we have received. In the case of scrapping, very much of the equipment that was on the old MTBs is now in use on the new MTBs. What was chopped up is just the shells. It's not a full ship, because they're picked from each other, and very much used in the new structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e811	In the hope of putting the question of INI behind us, I would like to clarify that I have now understood the Council correctly. I understood that something on Jørstadmoen was not to be moved out of Jørstadmoen. According to the instructions, what is there and related to the boss’s job is among other things. that the position holder is the KKIS Inspector of Defence, i.e. the Commander of Command, Control and Information Systems. It states that Chief FK KKIS is the Chief Defence Officer's adviser within the Defence Information Structure and is on behalf of the Chief Defence Officer in charge. Furthermore, it says that he has overall management and management of the information structure of the defense, and that he is responsible for the overall development of the INI. Is it true that all of these problems, as described here, remain at Jørstadmoen?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e819	It is a little special – and I know the document it is referred to – that one instruction is drawn out of all the instructions of the Defence Department in Stortinget. But the area to be on Jørstadmoen is the area that is on Jørstadmoen. We have even said that we want to see if there are other ICT tasks to be added to Jørstadmoen. I also want to say that very large parts of the ICT environment are in the FLO. There is the large operating environment, among other things, and also some others. All of this is to be placed under one common boss. But the environment on Jørstadmoen is an important environment on the competence side, which is going to be there, which is going to grow, which is not going to be moved anywhere, and on which we are going to bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e826	Norwegian soldiers who make the serious decision to go abroad must be sure that they receive a healthful follow-up when they come home, both in the short and long term. Harm development must be detected as early as possible and monitored over time. Then, in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, follow-up is not enough just for the first year, as the soldiers now claim they are promised. Veterans stand out in the media and tell us that they have twice been promised a wide range of studies that would reach the individual, and they have hope that they will receive a medical follow-up to the Defense. But then the register didn't catch them up. My question to the Minister is: what does the Minister do to ensure that our veterans get the follow-up they both need and demand?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e833	I would like to stress that it is very important that our soldiers receive the follow-up they are entitled to, both before they go out, during the operation they are in, and also afterwards. As the representative of Sahl mentions, I would say that in 2001–2002, a comprehensive health survey was carried out among former veterans. Those results were also available at that time. No changes were made to the follow-up requirement at that time. What we're adding up to now, is you're going to have a year's right to legal follow-up. It's a follow-up that the Defense takes great responsibility for. But our soldiers, both when they're soldiers and later in life, are also part of the civil health system, and then the civil health system is going to be able to take over after the one year that we put up with when we legislate this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e840	To go a little further on the question that the representative of Sahl had: I am pleased that it is now being worked on further to look at the rights of our veterans. But I believe that the defense should be able to extend beyond the one year, because psychological sensitivities tend to come a long time after one has been in operational service, and can be difficult to prove after one year. Then I hear what the Council of State says, but I think this should perhaps be an assessment that is not so firm, so that one can also assess follow-up beyond one year. Do the councils agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e847	When we say that soldiers should have a one-year statutory right to follow-up, there is a major and important reform that has not been addressed before. So it is that all citizens of this country are to be covered by civil health. But the defense has to have some special competence, which we have reason to believe, based on the fact that we have soldiers in operating areas that the civil health community does not have. It may also be a matter of psychological damage that our psychologists and psychiatrists have better prerequisites for having knowledge of. It is important that we cooperate with the civil health community on this. But there should be no doubt that because the defense should not have further follow-up, the former soldiers should have it in the civil health system, because they are ordinary citizens of this country. But the defence takes a great responsibility in the reform to which it is put in the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e854	As the Council of State knows, there is a massive resistance to the decommissioning of Olavs protection. My question goes in that direction. In St. prp. No 48 for 2007-2008, which was dealt with here in Stortingen before the summer, says in connection with the closure of Olavsverms: ‘This has been considered not to result in a need for initial investment.’ That's why I'm a little surprised, because I've asked questions about the maintenance of submarines after the closure of Olavsverm is completed, and in an answer I've received from the Council of State on a previous question, it says that we should build up new capacity in Ramsund, among other things. with battery charge and such things. Why has the Government not informed Stortinget that new capacity will be built in Ramsund, with a need for significant investment?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e865	When the Olavs are laid down, there are still three bases left in the north. It's Ramsund, it's Trondenes and it's Blackland. What is being transferred to Ramsund is, in particular, the floating berth from Olavsværm. When the government has gone in to liquidate the Olavs protection, it is in the light of the advice we have received from the defense chief. There must be a lot of investment on Olavsværder if it is to be a future base. You don't want to. Then it's more important to invest in a logistics ship, which will be a more future way of supporting our ships.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e870	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e873	Today, the size of the population treats a defence budget that is seen as a trend change by now increasing after several years with a downward trend. When the sitting government started its work in 2005, there was no lack of negative predictions about the future of defence from the opposition, but now we see that these predictions are emphatically disgraced. Now the budgets are being increased – and they are being kept. This means that the defence has now received good financial management and thus releases acute and dramatic cuts and an unpredictable employment situation for employees. Now the positive decisions come in order, and it seems that the employees are seeing the future brighter. In today's government, we have a defence minister who, in record time, has done a formidable clearing job. This has resulted in a return to investment, and in the future we will have more defence for the money we spend on the defense. This creates confidence in the future, especially for those who have their daily and important work in the Defence. In such demanding jobs it is important to have predictability. As a representative from North Norway, I am also pleased and proud that the Government is standing by its promises in the Soria Moria Declaration of a clear commitment to the north. In the Soria Moria Declaration, it strikes among other things. solid: ‘The Government will strengthen the presence and sovereignty of the Defence in the north.’ [[...]] We now see this in practical policies, among other things. by establishing the Joint Operational Headquarters of the Defence in the north and moving the Inspector General of the Army to Inner Troms. This important north-field effort would not have happened if we had not had a majority government and a red-green majority. We have also confirmed that today from parts of the opposition. Despite beautiful words about north-eastern betting, it seems as if the opposition is waving away when there are concrete proposals like real monks. We have today been confirmed that the Progress Party will have a rematch on the decision-making process. Does the opposition not believe that something can be directed from the northern part of the country, or what is the reason for this resistance to northern location? Why do they just have to be branches in the north? I hope that one day we will get there that a total collapse looks at the northern areas as Norway's main strategic field, as the government parties do. With the opportunities that lie in the north, I hope that in the future we will be given full satisfaction about the effort that is needed to make good use of the resources, secure the settlement, create jobs and develop the country as a whole. In this picture, the defence has a very important role to play. There is a lot of other positive that could be said in relation to this budget, but I'll be careful to mention the case of the veterans. I'm glad that there are also important and noticeable improvements here. The veterans have made a formidable effort and must not be forgotten. If these people have had the aftereffects of tough events and experiences, they need the help they need. A Joint Committee expresses its satisfaction at the continuation of efforts to strengthen the rights of veterans. As you know, Bæria has been bought back and is now established as a welfare and recreation centre for the VA veterans. I'm really glad that the work to improve the conditions for the veterans now has a very high priority, and that there will be concrete results.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e897	Nearly SEK 2.1 billion is not much on a state budget alone, either for a department, in this case the Ministry of Defence. But when we add it to approx. 34 billion kroner granted by the government parties, that means a lot. For SEK 2.1 billion is the difference between the proposals of the Government and the Advance Party. This extra money makes us get a defense that can be called a defense. This extra money will give you, for example: Army 750 million. Extra NOK 400 million will be spent by the Maritime Defense Agency. kr extra, Air Force 180 million. Extra kr, the Home Guard will receive 130 million. NOK 37 million extra, intelligence service. extra, Defence Logistics Organisation 100 million. Extra kr, and the Coast Guard gets a total of 350 million. Extra kroner. This is money that makes that e.g. The Home Guard can train its crews, the Coast Guard can sail, the planes can fly, the Army can practice, etc. It's not going to come from the fact that the defense has been starving for years. There have been many reorganisations, military camp closures, mergers, offers of various financial packages to stop and reduce the number of soldiers. Home security consisted of 83,000 people a few years ago, 50,000, and now you're down to 45,000. The number 30000 is also referred to as the next step. The number of districts is also almost halved. We also saw the ability, possibilities, size of the defense, or maybe it was the economy that reflected itself during the opening of the Storting in the fall. Never before have there been so few soldiers along Karl Johan's gate. It shows in practice the path of defence. Then we realize that more financial resources are needed to achieve an acceptable level of defence. It's not enough to boast that we've got our first new transport plane. The Progress Party has put forward proposals for the purchase of new transport aircraft many years ago, and has repeated it without a majority. The parties to the Government have voted against the proposal once and for all. Otherwise, the defense – and has been – is in another phase I don't like either, namely the disposal of military equipment that we hear The defense doesn't need. This year alone, the defense is getting rid of many vehicles, hundreds of them. We cut up 80 war chariots of the type Leopard 1 A5. These tanks were modernized and in good condition. There are vehicles that are more modern and in better condition than Russia used recently in Georgia. For the Progress Party, this is not a sensible policy. You owe, among other things, lack of garages, which I find difficult to understand. I know that garages have enough of them in the defense. The problem is that the rental prices are so high that the defence cannot afford to hire itself. The Progress Party is the only party on the Stortinget that wants a real increase in the defence budget as monks. This is what the Progress Party wants because we believe the Defence Organisation is too small, as it is today. Furthermore, the Progress Party believes that the defence suffers from a lack of material and means enough to operate. I also want to commend those women and men who serve abroad, a service that requires everything, also the possibility of being hurt and what is worse than that. It is therefore important that the service, training and preparation of the soldiers – but also of the soldiers’ closest – make them as well equipped as possible, so that the service is as good as possible. Equally important is what happens when the soldiers come home again. Therefore, it is important to have an appliance that is accepted, both from day one and if you need help after several years. Sensation damage is part of it, and they must receive the help, understanding, and recognition they deserve. Until now this has not been treated well enough. I would like to commend what has happened recently, but with all due respect it must be said that it is more than the Minister of Defence who has the credit for this. I certainly think there are very many who should be praised, especially those organisations that care for their interests. Also from the Chair of the Stortinge, among others. by me, it has been demanded and demanded better conditions when the veterans need it – very many times. I'm also very pleased that Bæria has once again become a place that can serve the best of the veterans.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e918	In connection with the Defense Study, the Chief of Defense proposed to lay down Base Jørstadmoen. It came as a bomb, both at Jørstadmoen and around the region, especially after the Stortinget decided in 2004 to strengthen the military's operational ICT business and to gather her at Jørstadmoen. I am overconfident that it was a right and good decision that the Government and the Storting did in connection with the handling of the defence's long-term message, when one decided to hold up Jørstadmoen. It was a right decision for the Defense and not at least a right decision for the region. So here's the area and the possibilities for development. In particular, there is an essential interaction between the Defence and Højskulen, a development environment in the region – joint engineering training at the University of Gjøvik, interaction with the business community – in all that is of the development environment when it comes to ICT competence in the Lillehammer region. There's really something that the Defense pulls the switch on. So Jørstadmoen is a completely necessary locomotive for the ICT competence and development that is in this region. Such a strong locomotive is what the hinterland needs. The decision taken at Stortinget in connection with our long-term plan created optimism in the region – especially when, in a joint note from all parties, it was shown that the ICT environment was still too fragmented, and the decision taken in 2004 to establish the ICT operation at Jørstadmoen. After that, there has been an increase in military-civil cooperation. Here there has been a co-location with business, and a development environment is being established just around Jørstadmoen and the camp there. This is valuable for the Defense and the Region. This is exactly what the long-term message pointed out: if one wanted to keep a strong and good defense by team, one had to have very good military-civil cooperation in the future, in line with the intention. In connection with the staging proposition came the proposal that one should set up a chief INI, which I thought was very good for me. It's nice what the proposition says, that this chief INI position needs to be strengthened. But then it is proposed that it should be placed centrally in Oslo, while at the same time that the general inspectors and the second-line services should otherwise be located in their different areas of defence. It has created new insecurity. There has been a new debate on the consequences for Jørstadmoen in the light of this. Fears have been that one would build a staff around the head of INI centrally that had the same functions as those located on Jørstadmoen, and that one over time would capture the necessary environment that is on Jørstadmoen. Everyone understands that the Defence in the long term will not sit with two parallel organisations to carry out the same tasks. It's not just about the number of settings at Jørstadmoen, but about the content, the functions, the positions and the competence environment around the head of Jørstadmoen, which one was afraid would be lost in the long run. Thus, Jørstadmoen would in the long run be weakened. But the locomotive that I pointed out, it is necessary for one to have in the future as well. That's why the comment that a multiple of these is in the back room is very important. I'd like to quote from that comment: ‘It is therefore necessary that the tasks and functions assigned to Jørstadmoen continue there and that this environment be strengthened in the long term. Furthermore, it is stated that the creation of a Chief INI position should not result in ‘the creation of a staff around the Chief INI position that will reduce the activity, dynamics and competences of Jørstadmoen’. It was this that the Minister of Defence underlined in his statement. I think it's very important to have this said clearly and clearly, as it's done in the comment that a plural will stand behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e943	Today, the Stortinge deals with the defence budget for 2009. The budget shall be a continuation of the major lines of defence policy for the period 2009-2012 adopted in June this year. According to St.prp. No 48 for 2007-2008 have a more central role to play in social security and crisis relief. The protection of the home shall have a territorial responsibility and shall be capable of strengthening other military presence, if necessary. The protection of the home shall also, at the request of the police, be able to assist in the management of serious crime and in the event of threats of terrorism or terrorist attacks. The government also writes in St.prp. No 48 that the Home Security shall have the ability to respond rapidly, with well trained and equipped forces. It is on the basis of the above description of the Home Protection System that it is difficult to understand that the intention of St.prp. No 48 were followed up in the draft budget. The overall framework for the defence budget has been increased by approx. 2 pst., while the Home Guard budget is reduced by 6.7 pst., corresponding to 128.8 million. kr. The total budget of the Home Office is only 3 pst. by the entire defence budget. It seems that the government in its draft budget for the Home Affairs Agency is proposing to follow the FS07. Here, the Chief of Defense Sverre Dene recommends that the future structure of civil protection should be reduced from 50 000 to 30 000. The number of HV districts was proposed to be reduced from 13 to 11. The government did not choose to follow the Defence Manager’s proposals for command and personnel reductions and the country for a total of 45000 HV personnel. The Progress Party proposes to maintain the existing level of 50000. The number of HV districts was reduced from 13 to 11, resulting in the collapse of HV07 and HV08. This reduction has resulted in no operational military command apparatus between Skien and Stavanger. In the opinion of the Progress Party, the budget reduction shows that Home Protection is a very low priority in defence. In St. prp. No 1 writes to the Government that the operating costs of Home Security can be reduced by 128.8 million. kr, because the number of staff has been reduced from 50000 to 45000, and that there are now fewer HV districts. Furthermore, the Home Protection Education Centre on the Guards is closed. The government writes that until these changes become fully effective, the government is planning to reduce the exercise and training activity in Home Security in 2009. In clear text: there will be no exercises for the reinforcement and follow-up forces in 2009. The Progress Party is concerned that these forces will not be given exercises next year. Homeland Security is the only nationwide defense. That's why you don't practice, it's very suspicious. In addition to being able to carry out military tasks, the social tasks of Home Affairs are great. Without exercises, the motivation and therefore the effort will be reduced. Studies show that the number of exercises has been significantly reduced in recent years. In 2006, 80 pst. of the HV areas exercises, while the figures for 2007 and 2008 were 78 pst, respectively. and 53 pst. And then you come to 2009. Then there will be no exercises for these HV areas. In its alternative budget, the Progress Party has increased the framework for the Heimevertnert by 130 million. kr. This is enough to cover the cost of exercises for everyone. In a defence budget of approx. 33.5 billion dollars would hardly be difficult to re-prioritize 130 million. kr to Home Security, so that exercises could also be carried out in 2009. Therefore, a reduction in the Home Security budget can be difficult to understand in other ways than that this is a gradual downsizing and weakening of the Home Security sector as a defence sector. A likely combination with the Army in the long term works imaginably in this scenario.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e966	‘The budget of the year represents a trend break and means that the defence has taken a step away from the edge of the plunge’. I think he's quite right about that. This government has taken a real grip on the defense. We are about to reverse the economic situation and development. If you want a defense, it's important to have a presence in North Norway. And that's what this government has done, not least with the bet you're going to have on the north. The government sees the northern areas as Norway's main strategic field of activity in the coming years. It is also important to strengthen the presence and sovereignty of the defence in the north, including the defence’s contribution to good preparedness for environmental crises and the capacity of the Coast Guard for resource control and preparedness. The current safety challenge is less than previously linked to traditional military threats. The risk of terrorist attacks, major environmental and natural disasters or major accidents in different sectors of society has increased. What the government wants, is to have a modern defense, adapted to new security challenges. New and more complex threats increase the need for flexible defence, which can handle a wide range of different tasks. Coastal preparedness shall also be given higher priority. The defence must be more than at present directed towards managing sovereignty and ensuring stability in our marine areas, especially in the north. I am also very pleased that the Government continues the modernisation of the Coast Guard and the control of fisheries in the sea areas. It'll also have a high priority. We have increased the appropriations for the Coast Guard in recent years. The capacity of the Coast Guard has been strengthened in 2008 by phasing out old ships and introducing a few fewer but more modern vessels. New vessels are able to monitor larger sea areas. It also involves increased mobility and not least the ability to solve a greater range of tasks than before. I, representing the Nordic states, am very pleased with the location of the Defence's new joint operating headquarters to Retan in Bodø. Not least, there's been a grip here on the northern regions. It will also have a key role to play in the future. It is important to make this move as soon as possible. When it comes to moving to Reitan, I think – I don't know if it is a parliamentary expression, but I'm still trying to – that looking at the budget position, there's a change from the Progress Party and the Right. In fact, I think we should have a clarification from the Right and the Advance Party on whether they will respect a majority decision in this Chamber on moving to Retan. Of course, when it comes to localization, there will always be debate. I record that both the captain-general of the Navy and the chief of defence have clearly stated that there is no need for Olavs protection in the defence structure. I also refer to – if I have understood correctly – that there are alternatives to Olavsverm in the north. Having maintenance capacity will be the most important thing for the Naval Defense in the North. Such capacities and competences exist and are already concentrated in Ramsund in the municipality of Tjeldsund – a municipality that is perhaps the most defence-dependent with its ca. 1 300 inhabitants. I'm glad we also have such competence in the north. This government has also delivered here in relation to the Soria Moria declaration. There has been a demanding task both for the government, for the government and for the red-green ones on the Stortinget. But if you look at what's been done in the Defense until now, you've delivered in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e987	There is hardly a community area that then until those degrees have changed in a few decades as the Defense. It is not least because of the major changes we have had in the international picture. We've seen old constellations of power go down and new ones arise. New forums for dialogue and negotiation-based conflict solutions have given formerly cold warriors new opportunities, if it tightens up from time to time, as we have seen in the last year. A lot of center of gravity has moved. The traditional way of thinking about defence is in the process of development and change. I am pleased that the Government has this perspective on the defence policy that Norway is going to pursue. One of the main objectives of the Government is to have a defence capable of meeting the challenges in changing circumstances, thereby ensuring that we are equipped to protect the interests, values and security of the country. There is broad political consensus that the northern regions represent the centre of gravity of Norway's defence and security policy interests. Here, as a nation, we meet major and complex challenges of a global nature. We face our big neighbour in the east, and know that we share some of the world's richest and most important sea areas with them, where there are still unresolved questions about jurisdiction and borderline migration. The good policy of meeting this must be between diplomacy, an outstretched people for people's cooperation and a defense present. It's just this government adds up to its policy. This can be seen in many policy areas and in many budget chapters – not just those we are dealing with today. The government is present in the north with the Defense, both with the Army, the Maritime Defense and the Air Force. With the Armed Forces Operational Headquarters in Bodø, a clear strengthening of the Army in Inner Troms, a phase-in of new ship classes of frigates and MTBs and new transport aircraft, important measures have been implemented for the Defence of the North. It is also very important to have a modern and long-haul coastguard. I am pleased that the Coast Guard has been strengthened over the last few years, and that a comprehensive improvement in the quality of the fleet is now underway, thus increasing the capacity and the ability of the Coast Guard to monitor. This is very important for Norwegian presence in the vulnerable and resource-rich northern sea areas. There has been a lot of debate about the marine base Olavsvern in Tromsø. I belong to those who have thought that a solution should be found for the continued use of Olavsværn in the North Sea Defense, but I have taken note that neither the head of defence nor the department sees the base to be included in the further structure. I also note that it is from the north, among others. from Ramsund in the north of the North, there has been an opinion that the base available there, together with other coastal installations, has sufficient capacity. However, I am very pleased that there are signs from the Government that a solution must be found to ensure the access of the civil health service to the pressure chamber on the Olavs protection. Many people in the north have been concerned about this, and it is very important to find a solution to this. I note with satisfaction that the Government attaches importance to having a diversity of people in Defense, both by emphasising the recruitment of women and by having people in Defense who represent the minorities. An important social actor such as Defense depends on the legitimacy of the entire population and achieves this best by reflecting the diversity of society. I am also pleased that the Government is concerned about ethical issues and about having a policy of caring for people in the Defense who, in missions outside or at home, are facing very heavy and stressful experiences. I would like to stress that the defence is also a cultural bearer, and that this dimension is also respected in the government's arrangement. Defence music and fastening facilities are important both as elements of the cultural image and as a positive link between defence and the population. I'm glad that it's being taken care of in the government's arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1010	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1013	That's when you had 5 minutes, but you're going to have to deal with what you get. After we had had a fairly long round of business on Jørstadmoen in dealing with the long-term plan of defence, many of us believed that there was a broad political consensus on the level of ambition for the future business on Jørstadmoen. On the right, we noted the contributions made by the government parties' politicians, among others. by the representative of Rudihagen, who described the main issue of the Grand Duchy of the Inland, and who underlined the defence minister’s courage and ability to listen and make correct decisions. Here we talked about a collection of resources in the field of ICT and the great gains this would mean military professionally and for the Mjøs region. Oh, my gosh! How long was Adam in Paradise? In this case it was approx. three months. Because already at the first crossroads it turned out that there was little unity and really unclear what level of ambition the government was willing to add when it came to the piece. Because in the draft budget, what we had in advance was the idea: Chief INI was to be added to Oslo, with all that that means, both as a signal and in relation to staff and functions. The shift has been clear – not only in the Right, but also among employees at Jørstadmoen, in business and in the rest of the population. After much over and over, government parties have had an impact on comments that describe something in the direction of the status quo for the enterprise, and possible new locations for activities in the future. If these comments are as much worth as those we thought we could base in June, it's obviously not much to have expectations for. The government's plans for Jørstadmoen are not in any way consistent with the visions we carried with us at the time. For the right, this has been about a real collection of the ICT business, and then, of course, under its own management – and then we believe, of course, also without parallel organisations in Oslo. This is about building a professionally competent environment with a volume that provides sustainability. The collection of resources provides the basis for obtaining the best results for the Defence. Well located up against the higher education environments of Lillehammer and Gjøvik are all the reasons why there will also be environments around Defence, not least in the technology environment at Gjøvik. This cooperation has already produced results in the development of the professional data security environment – a very important and relevant area of defence. In a small country like ours, it must be right to open up the defence against the civil sector with a view to extracting the best of what our country can recover within the individual fields. The right will continue to work to realize the visions underlying our understanding of the consensus we felt was in dealing with the long-term plan. It is our belief that the positive effects we want for defence are triggered primarily when we get a real collection and thus a professional environment above the critical mass that is needed to make this really innovative and strong over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1034	Not surprisingly for some I think to take up the situation around Jørstadmoen. The setting of the long-term defence plan, presented in June of this year, includes: that the professional environments of the information infrastructure of the defence remain geographically dispersed and somewhat fragmented between a number of different actors and departments. Reference is made to earlier unanimous decisions to integrate the professional environment geographically into a common centre of expertise at Jørstadmoen. In addition, it says: ‘The Committee is concerned that this will maximise the pooling of ICT resources in defence.’ When we presented the long-term plan, we therefore worked hard to strengthen Jørstadmoen as a base for the ICT business in the Defence. The result of this was that the government parties went in to save Jørstadmoen from defeat – for which the head of defence had agreed – while at the same time we got binding comments in the setting both to the proposition and the long-term plan that Jørstadmoen would be strengthened. I experience that the opposition parties too are joining in our work to bet on Jørstadmoen in the future, which means that a mass accumulation is behind Jørstadmoen. There is a clear tendency for the defense to move towards being located in fewer places. It is therefore very important where activities are to be grouped and where they are to be shut down. It is also important to know that the choices made by the Storting must be fixed over time. Therefore, the Committee pointed out that the choice of Jørstadmoen as the focal point for ICT activities was a natural continuation of decisions in the context of the 2005-2008 long-term plan. The bet on Jørstadmoen is good for the Inland. In Finland, access to ICT skills is good, and the defence can benefit from it. At the same time, it is important for the Lillehammer region to have more strong technology environments that can drive the further development of business and competences. A comprehensive ICT Centre for Defence, with many competence jobs, will be such an engine. Today we have also heard a lot about Jørstadmoen, and I understand that the Council of State has said that Jørstadmoen will continue to grow. That's good. But for various reasons, this has been called into question both today and in the past, and it is not for no reason. It will therefore be reassuring for us if the Council of State can confirm that the Government's and the Grand Council's ambition to strengthen the ICT environment of the Defence at Jørstadmoen is established this summer, and that this will be done by creating new functions and ICT positions in the Defence Department at Jørstadmoen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1052	The centre party is satisfied with and looks forward to the assembly of the future command structure, and that the activities currently carried out by the Joint Operational Headquarters of the Defence and Landsdelskommando Nord-Norway are being grouped into one unit and established as the Defence Operational Headquarters. This also takes into account the importance of the northern regions in the future. In addition to providing operational savings, the measure will, primarily by reducing the number of mountain installations in operation, also involve robust capacity to conduct operations and major exercises nationally. It is also important for the Centre Party to stress that the Jørstadmoen business – as we have just heard another speaker – should be continued and strengthened. The government estimates, after the signals we have received, even if other ICTs in the future can be located in Jørstadmoen. The Central Party further believes that cooperation with civil authorities, such as police, state and local authorities, is important in this context. It is necessary to facilitate the recruitment of HV volunteers to units that can perform missions abroad. It will help to reduce the wear and tear of personnel in the other defence sectors and provide valuable competence to HV. It turns out that HV personnel in Afghanistan are well suited to the efforts of border work between civil and military efforts. The centre party is pleased that the appropriations for the Coast Guard have increased in recent years. This year’s budget facilitates continued substantial efforts on the Coast Guard. It is true that the number of Coast Guard vessels in 2009 is lower than in 2008, but capacity has improved due to modernisation, among others. for the phase-in of multiple heliports. This is a right priority, as the Coast Guard is important, and in this case it will be in line with the Northern Territory Initiative of the Government. The Central Party supports the Government's signals of a possible increase in military participation in UN-led peace operations in 2009, continuing with special attention to Africa and, primarily, in a Nordic framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1067	I'm going to start my post by raising the question that I asked the Council of State in the change of line, which I did not get a response to. In the long-term proposition that the Stortinge treated before the summer, it is quite clear in the case of Olav protection: ‘This has been considered not to result in a need for initial investment.’ When the Government, with the Workers' Party at its head, has ensured that the Olav Protection is closed, I have also asked questions about how to maintain submarines in the future. The response I received from the Council of State on 24 November 2008 indicates that a capacity should be built up in Ramsund. Among other things, for the charging of UVB batteries, it is planned that the charging station currently on the Olavsværm should be moved to Ramsund. It's for those who don't know it, a floating bridge. But the investments are going to land. Then I would like to know from the Council of State how large the investments are. Or is it that these investments do not exist until later? I would like to know why there has been a difference between what is in the proposition, and what the Council of State has given me on the question of Olav protection. I expect the Council of State to explain this a little later. Otherwise, I just have to record that there have been very many red-green politicians who have fought verbally for Olavsverm in the media, but when it comes to this hall, the pipe has got a different sound. My red-green colleagues, especially from Troms, will make sure that Olavs protection is closed this time as well, and this time it's probably the nail in the coffin, to use such an expression. So the Council of State also said that it was happy to have more sailing days for the Coast Guard, all 158 days for the next year. I'm happy about that, too. But in that calculation, it has not been taken into account that there were several fewer sailing days in 2008 than it was in 2007. Coast Guard figures show that there has been a decrease of between 20 and 25 pst. That the Council of State has the gift of fear to stand and boast that the Coast Guard has been given more sailing days, I think is quite remarkable. Now I do not know whether the ‘gift of luck’ is a parliamentary expression. If that's not the case, I have to say that I'm amazed that the Council of State is still getting to say something like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1082	The President will state that the expression ‘greedy gift’ is an unparliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1085	The northern regions are in the shot as never before, and the Norwegian defence is about to get a top modern fleet. The main task of the fleet must be to enforce Norwegian sovereignty in the strategically important maritime areas of the north. Here we have our most valuable fishing resources, here we assume that it hides large oil and gas reserves, and here we have a border with Russia, our east-facing hub, which does not recede to demonstrate its presence in the north. It is a serious paradox that while Norway is building a well-equipped marine and government, there is no reason for it to stress the great importance of the northern regions, the same government decides to build down the base structure and get rid of the most northbound base and almost Norwegian and allied ships commissioned in the northern regions. In its contributions to other bases in the north, the Council of State pointed out that the budget means several sailing days. The problem is that the bases to which the Council of State refers do not have doping possibilities in the mountains and cannot offer the same offers that the Olavsvern can provide, among other things. submarine fleet and allied ships. More sailing days in the north do not mean that base capacity should be reduced. In the long-term defence notice, perhaps the decision to abolish Olavs protection is one of the most incomprehensible. The right continues to disagree with that decision, and has therefore put out money in its alternative budget to maintain the Olavs protection activity. When I hear today the representatives from Troms explain themselves about the closure of Olavsverm, this is very disappointing. When a member of the defence committee Bjørn Jacobsen, in SV, has been in Tromsø and told how headless it is to shut down Olavsverm, there is reason to ask if Jacobsen has two positions – one in the south and one in the north, depending on where he is geographically located. When voting today, both Jacobsen and the big business representatives from Troms have a new chance to show what they really think about this matter. Operational environments in defence have been very clear that, based on an operational assessment, the base of Olavs protection should be maintained, and we know that with very modest costs. As NATO's northernmost marine military base in Europe, Olav protection is unique. And with our geographical location, Norway has a special responsibility and should have a special interest in facilitating also the allied presence. If the nearest alternative base is Bergen, we know that this represents many lost sailing days and absences from the north. In addition, Olav protection may refer to significant allied practice activities and calls, which it has a clear value to maintain. The timing could not be worse, when the Government in 2009 proposes to implement the closure of Olavsverms.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1100	The Council of State's response to Jørstadmoen made me deeply concerned. The councils were concerned with what the government thought. It's not that interesting in this context, the important thing is what the Big One has decided. That is what is binding on the Government. The opinion of the big business has been clear, the activity was to be gathered at Jørstadmoen. Of course, the person who wrote the instructions referred to in the line change has understood what it was about. That means that the activity described in the instruction, of course, should be at Jørstadmoen today. If you think otherwise, you get a decision on it, then it means moving. Then I come to what really made me worried. I almost got the impression, when I heard from the Council of State, that this activity is not on Jørstadmoen today. If it is not available at Jørstadmoen today, the Council of State must have ignored the Stortinge decision for many years. This instruction was completed and would apply from 1 January 2006. If these activities are not available at Jørstadmoen today – and I want to ask that it be clarified so that I do not attach anything to the Council of State that I should not – I think the Council of State must prepare for a matter of control in relation to her relationship with the decision of the Storting. Either we have a move now, or we have a big decision that is ignored. I find it hard to see that there may be other alternatives and ask to clarify that relationship. As far as the rest of the articles of the Council of State are concerned, I'm just going to comment on two points. One relates to budgetary development, because I understand that the ability to self-gratulation is fairly well developed among the government parties. I would like to remind you that the small increase you have for next year is still under the cuts of the red-green government itself since it took over. Or, in another way, the government is still significant in minus. As long as the government is still significant in minus, I would recommend that you set the self-gratulation, at least until you get to zero. And then finally, a majority in the committee has been clear that they want the budgets to be written differently, so that there is greater scope for employeeship and participation, and not least for understanding what is going on. I realized at the council that she did not intend to comply with that wish. I see it as an emphasis on what was my point, namely that the government is leading a closed line in the field of defence, not just the long-term programme, it is actually the whole four-year period.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1112	The representatives of the red-green government have been clear that this is going forward, we are away from the stump, and everything is fine. Now it's just wealth and joy with the Defense and the Defense budgets. However, I would like to comment on what Mr Øye said. She was surprised that the opposition in its draft budget did not have enough funds to reverse the move decisions in the long-term plan. It surprises me that the representative makes that claim, because it is clear that as long as the parliamentary basis is the same while the next fiscal year is working, there is no need to have the means to change anything. On the day we get a decision on rematch and it gets a majority, at least the Progress Party should be involved in supporting that we get enough funds to implement this. When we discussed the long-term plan for Defence in the spring of 2008, the Progress Party was particularly concerned with the problem of moving FOHK from Jåttå to Reitan to bring with it sufficient staff. It was claimed that there was no problem. Now, investigations of the same employees in the Defense on Yåtta show that there is only 20 pst. who want to move from Stavanger to Retan. This must be a concern for the Government. I doubt that the FOHK Jåtta employees agree with the Arnesen representative, because he said that employees now see the future brighter. I actually think the opposite is the case. I think the biggest problem for the Council of State is to fill positions with capable staff on Reitan.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1121	At the bottom of the debate, it's okay to sum up a little bit. After the line-up with the committee leader, I now notice that it's only Olavs protection that it's time to reverse. Guards, HV-07, FOHK, Madla and all that's forgotten, and it's okay to note. I fully agree with Aspaker that we are going to have a top modern fleet when we get everything in place, both with frigates, MTBs and Coast Guards. That's very good, and that's also the Northern Region bet the Government is very concerned about. 45 Ramsund, Sortland and Trondenes are bases that can now increase activity. I think you're very happy with that on these bases. Now a lot of time has been spent on the proposal to maintain Olav protection. If you thought so strongly that that proposal would come up for vote here, I think it would have been much more credible if you had also found the 32 million that this costs in 2009. Of course, they had to be taken from other good suggestions, but that had to be backed up. As Jan Sahl says, decisions were taken in connection with the long-term plan with hardly a majority. Yes, the government took the pressure to co-locate and put down what the defense thought was not needed, in order to get money for the operational part. I am very pleased, especially after the debate today, where we hear that, among other things. The Christian People's Party, which wanted to have a large structure, now does not have a single crown to drive this structure already in the first year. It's also surprising to hear the Christian People's Party, which went very far in maintaining FOHK, saying that it was going to be a battle cause for next year. We know that the leader there will be elected from Rogaland next fall. But now the representative Sahl says it's no longer true. It's very easy to find out. I believe that the government prioritises defence. We deliver, and we take responsibility for getting a defense with the best possible operational capability. That is why the Workers' Party believes that the Storting has more ambitions than you are willing to pay for. We have actually heard that here today. The Labour Party believes that it is old-fashioned and political, and I hope that we will soon end it. So one explanation of vote: the Labour Party will vote against the Committee's position on XIII, XIV and XV.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1136	At the end of the debate, I would like to challenge once again the government parties and the state council on the further journey of Homeland Protection. Some speakers have praised the efforts of Homeland Protection, which is well deserved, of course. But the question is, where is Home Security in a few years? In a relatively short period of time, there has been a sharp decrease in the protection of the home, from 83 000 to 45 000. The number of districts is almost halved, and it's cut in budgets. Therefore, this is a timely question when government parties praise the participation of Homeland Protection in foreign missions. But when we know that Homeland was based on proximity and local knowledge to solve their mission, the Progress Party is afraid of the evolution we see. It may look as if the next step is 30,000 men, and then the Home Guard is included in the Army, and so the history of Home Guard is over. If you believe in something, you contribute money, so that you can practice and train for the tasks you have to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1143	Once the government has gone in to bring down the Olavs protection, it is because it has been clearly said by the Defense that it has been considered not to be operational needs for maritime forces on Olavs protection further. The re-use of the flotation plant on Olavsværr, e.g. on Ramsund, will involve minimum costs. In the case of Jørstadmoen and the new head of INI, the establishment of a Chief INI is largely a formalisation and a collection of functions currently exercised by the Defence Staff and to some extent by the Ministry of Defence. Here are some positions that will go into the staff of the new head of the INI. It is not intended to be overlapping positions in a central staff and in the one currently on the FK-KKIS. It is an environment that must retain its competence. It is always the case that when you regulate an organisation or make changes, guidelines will change, but there is no need to move one position from Jørstadmoen. Jørstadmoen stands for a very important environment of competence, to which many people have been involved, which is very important for the defence, and on which we will also be dependent for the future. I don't want it to be in doubt. With regard to HV, which you were just about to talk about, it's like the effort force is going to be fully trained. The command is fully trained. Otherwise, HV will also work with reorganization. There's some reduction in HV, but we're very open on it in the budget. We have just prioritised this in order to be able to prioritise a significant increase in the other defence sectors. So to Korsberg, who went to the great heights – I'll say – when it was about sailing days. When I spoke about sailing day, it was not the Coast Guard I referred to. It was the Sea Defense's sailing day, which is increasing significantly in 2009 – actually by 59 pst. In conclusion, I just want to say that the effort we made in the long-term plan, with a significant investment in the northern regions, has been taken into account in the 2009 government defence budget. Because the presence is important, as mentioned, we have prioritised this with the marked increase in the number of days sailing for the Maritime Defense. Of course, the defence must continue to exercise surveillance, intelligence, sovereignty and the exercise of authority. That is what we are doing with this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1156	There have been many contributions on Olavs protection in this debate. I would have liked Olavsverm to be continued, but now professional military leaders have repeatedly replied that they do not need this base. This is both a professional and an economic question, and that means that we have to give priority here as well. So we can't say yes, thanks, both. We must give priority. Then my question to both the representative of Aspaker and the representative of Korsberg is: What base will be laid when you do not agree with the closure of Olavsvermner? I am pleased that there is now a system that ensures that the pressure tank at Olavsverm is driven further, and perhaps in an even better form than it has been driven before. I also feel confident that the Olavsverm plant will be used for good purposes in maritime activity in the future as well. No one must imagine that the plant is being mutilated and scraped, as it is often produced. This is a good installation, and, as I said, I should have liked it to be driven further. But as politicians, we sometimes face priorities that we have to decide on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1165	For SV, it is very important that the defense's investments and the defence's operations are primarily aimed at ensuring the country's security. But there's nothing in the way that if you can see district interests and their defenses work together, it's going to be beaten up. We see this happening at Jørstadmoen. Remember that Jørstadmoen was proposed in FS 07. I imagine that Jørstadmoen is going to be a future field of investment within ICT in Defence, just as we saw that the South Travel in Troms was within air surveillance. Jørstadmoen may be a growing region. You can see it in connection with the College in Lillehammer, osb. Here we can do a lot. SV's position is that we would like to move hundreds of jobs from Oslo and into the districts whenever possible, and when it also corresponds to good district interests. This is what we're going to get back to, and I trust that the Council of State will follow this up. Yes, a wish for Olavs protection, but one is not at all interested in taking the security policy debate that may come, and that I believe will rock Olavs protection in the future. Would you like a 'out of area' policy, one of which would like to build a logistics ship for NOK 2-3 billion, or would you like a base that is in the north, which is defined as Norway's most relevant area to defend when it comes to its security? If you dare to take that debate, dare to contribute to that debate, we may mount Olavsværn. I think we're going to do it in the future, because you don't put down the mountains. They're going to be there. I think the Olavs protection will stand, if the opposition who is here today is afraid to take that debate. But take that debate then, instead of going into budgetary measures, as I see it. We have the best coastguard in the world, or are on our way to get it. It's also thanks to those who are in opposition today. They should be honored for that. We're following this very closely. But when the Storting took that decision, a not 50 cents were opened to Coast Guard, a privatized Coast Guard. It is possible that one will have it like this, but Coast Guard Lir for it every single day, due to increased operating costs. The private riders of Sunnmøre and Tromsø don't run well. Of course, they will do their good work, and they will, and they will be well paid for it as well. But that's what wears the Defence and Coast Guard's operating budget. That's what we want to fix. This was a Pontius Pilate system: One said that a bet on the best coastguard in the world. The size often expresses its will by allowing money, but it did not, not 50 cents. Finally, I wonder that Skumsvoll makes a claim that Norwegian command will not dwell where there is something to defend.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1176	The representative Jan Petersen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1179	I feel that I have to ask a follow-up question, because the council did not answer my question. The issue is that the Storting has decided that the activity should be grouped at Jørstadmoen. It involves a command line clearly described in an instruction. The question is: is this position available today at Jørstadmoen, or is it not available? If it does not exist, it raises the question of whether or not the decision is ignored. I thought it was better that we cleaned up this in the hall than that we have to run the case as a control case.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1188	I expect the Council of State to sign up for a new post to answer the representative Jan Petersen's question, because I suppose the Council of State has so much respect for the Storting. I would also like to take the opportunity to get some more specific answers regarding the transfer of the floating dock to Ramsund. The Council of State says that this will lead to minimal costs. I would like to know what are the minimum costs. Is this about $100,000? Is that about 1 million? Do you really want to delete this item? Is that about five million? Do you really want to delete this item? I would like to know much more specifically what minimum costs are, up to what is in the document St.prp. No 48 for the 2007-2008 government. I would also like to know if there is a need for other investments in Ramsund as a result of a certain service and maintenance of submarines there. So the representative Arnesen asked questions about which other bases we're going to lay down. No, we're not going to put anything down. If he had brought with him what is in the budgetary position here today and in the budgetary position that forms the basis for the framework we have, we want to strengthen and continue the defence we have. As far as the Coast Guard is concerned, Bjørn Jacobsen was concerned that we have the best coastguard in the world. I think you also have to include that in the Barents Sea there is an overfishing of over $1 billion, over $1,000 million. kr. Then to say that we have the best coastguard in the world, I think you have to go in and look at the role of the Coast Guard. Those who are on board the ships and do that job out on the sea are the best in the world. But the economic framework conditions that this government puts at its disposal are far from enough. Here is SV and accepts that you drive and plunder the Barents Sea without lifting a single finger. If we had kept to our proposal for a government budget, it would have been 350 million. kr more to strengthen the Coast Guard. It would have been a long step in the right direction. I hope that the SV, when they come in opposition to the fall, can follow our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1201	The representative Henning Skumsvoll has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1204	I was challenged by the representative Jacobsen, who wondered how I could claim to have officers want to move from FOHK on Jåttå to Bodø. It appeared in NRK Rogaland at the end of last week, when there had been a survey of the employees at FOHK on Jåttå. I think the percentage that would volunteer to move was 18 pst. The rest didn't want to move. Some can be ordered, as known, but not all.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1210	This evolves in a rather interesting way. So it's a greater and greater paradox that at a time when Russia is modernizing its fleet and is more visible and more obvious when it comes to asserting its sovereignty in the north, the answer from the Norwegian side is that we're going to lay down bases in the north. I remember what you're trying to do here. It almost sounds like it costs a billion dollars to run Olavs protection, while the actual costs are less than a million dollars of the total defence budget. That's what it's all about. Then it's not about economics, whether you're going to get the base to move on. Then I also notice that there is a full red-green speck about what you actually think about the future of Olavsverm. Bendiks H. Arnesen was up here and said it wasn't so dangerous to put down the Olavs protection, because there were many other purposes you could use that base for. He was absolutely sure that someone was going to move in, and that someone was going to fill that base with second activity. While Bjørn Jacobsen just afterwards stood here and said that he did not rule out the possibility that in the future one might still be able to use the Olav protection. So the same red-green defense fraction has two very different opinions about what you want and what you don't want with the Olav protection. But I note that today we are voting against the proposal to continue Olavsverscherung, which means that Bjørn Jacobsen has lost. Then he can set the future blow that he partly drives and maintains here today, and only realize at the latest that it is not possible to have one position in Tromsø about Olavsvermner and then come here in the hall and have a different position and serve himself that here there are still opportunities and try to give the impression that the door is still on fire. So we've kind of figured out what's the truth about the government party's position here today. I believe that both Tromsø people, people from North Norway, or other defence interests in the whole country have actually noticed that in the age of the north you go to the step of laying that base, with a capacity that is not in Ramsund, in Blackland or in Trondnes. You don't have the dolls and the mountain halls. They only exist in Bergen, and it does not last if you want to have a presence in the north and take care of the sailing opportunities and the capacity that you actually want us to have in the north, which we need in the north – and which we need in view of the fact that we have a neighbor in the east who challenges us, and which is important that Norway also stands up to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1221	The representative Per Roar Bredvold has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1224	The Council of State replied in previous articles to a question about the future of Home Affairs. If I understood correctly, she said that the Home Guard was not a priority, and that they prioritised other defenses by taking money from the Home Guard and transferring them to the other branches. My question was whether Homeland will be history in the long term, and the answer to the Council of State could be interpreted there. Did I understand correctly, will the Home Office be further reduced in the long term and included in the Army?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1231	It is sea and air navigation that primarily constitutes north-eastern policy, not if we have a base like Olavsvern. There are three bases left in the north that can be used, and it's the defense chief's opinion that we don't need this base. Then it's interesting that that's what really gets the most attention. Our government has increased the appropriations for the Coast Guard in the years we have been sitting. In 2009, we are continuing the high level from the current year. But then we also change the entire structure of the Coast Guard, because we get new and larger vessels in. Then to Jørstadmoen. There is the fact that Chief FK KKIS today reports to the Chief Joint Loss that is again directly under the Chief of Defense. Chief FK KKIS will report in the future to a senior INI Chief, who will take up the positions in the Defence Staff and the Ministry of Defence, and who will have overall responsibility for the environments of the FLO and FLO/ICT that are not under the head of the FK KKIS, even though he has a coordinating professional responsibility in many areas. The environment at Jørstadmoen will continue to be at Jørstadmoen, and it will have the same relationship with the head of defence as today. But it goes without saying that when you're going to have a chief executive for all of these areas, you can't avoid that it also includes the environment at Jørstadmoen. But that doesn't mean any degradation of that environment. It means a bet on the entire ICT field in Defense. It means a significant investment in the environment on Jørstadmoen, which we want to build up, and which we have also invested in since we adopted the long-term plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1240	Representative Bjørn Jacobsen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1243	Defence Policy Selection and Defence Study 07 were the basis for the long-term plan. In fact, I had to travel around the country several times to say that it was the head of defense, the top professional military lease in the country, like for example. proposed that the protection of Olavs be reduced. There was no enemy power or anyone else who suggested it; it was the top professional military council that it was possible to get. And then we can try to challenge it. We have not made it through the long-term plan, it has our compromises and one with the other. But it has not been said that this debate is dead. I note that the Right does not want to take that debate, but the Right is quite right that, in cooperation with Russia, we need Olavs protection. But let's work on that in the future. No one's denying us that. So to Skumsvoll: I want to make sure we don't move to Retan, we move back to. In fact, someone worked there before, for many, many, many years. The representative produced it as if in one of the largest cities in North Norway, which has grown much since the last headquarters was there, the Norwegian command cannot imagine working. Then we're in big trouble.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1250	The representative Bendiks H. Arnesen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1253	I do not want to take this debate out, but I wonder about the contributions of the representatives of Aspaker and Korsberg. Firstly, they believe that we should ignore the professional military recommendations in the case of base elections. I hear what the representatives are saying, but the framework is already in place, so if the opposition's proposal on the Olavs protection was to be adopted today, we still lack the money, and then we have to put down the Olavs protection or another base. That's the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1258	I can only comment on the Minister of Defence's response to Jan Petersen as follows: I now stand with «Instructions for Chief Defence Competence Center Command Control Information Systems/KIS Inspector of Defence» to say it correctly and simply! What the Minister of Defence describes can, of course, be nothing other than what is described in this instruction as follows: ‘Certain management and management of the information infrastructure of the defence’. It is then difficult to understand other than that the reality is that we are facing the construction of a parallel organisation with overlapping functions, which was not a prerequisite for the original decision of the Storting. That means, as far as I can see, that what is underlying the state budget is not in line with what the Storting should expect under previous decisions. Then either the defence minister has to clean up with the head of defence as to what is to be that structure, or she has to actually make a proposal to move activities that were already foreseen today – and which we expect to be – at Jørstadmoen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1263	This has developed into a very interesting debate. What's perhaps the most interesting, is that once again, there's a huge disagreement within the government. So now we've had a case about fighter planes that have plagued SV to those degrees, and on which they obviously must have given up. Then we now have a debate about Olavsværn that may plague SV as much, but on which they now have to surrender. When Bjørn Jacobsen can allow himself to say that he is taking the debate, then Olav's protection will arise again, why in all the world will he now move it? It costs a lot of money that can go to the operational capability of the Defense. Why in the world will SV move the activity of Olavsvermn now, and then say that if we take a debate, it will probably come back? I don't understand the argument at all. You can't just use the argument here that the head of defense has told us to do that. After all, the Grand Council decides, and there may be other motives that also form the basis for not moving Olavs protection, not only the purely military operational capabilities, which are most in place by the fact that Olavs protection continues to exist, but there may also be other motives. The size must be allowed to assess it on its own basis. We can't at any time just listen to the professional military advice and say that once they say it, it's like that. Why in the world should we have this debate? That's the Big Thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1270	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1274	It was the representative of Arnesen who made me take the floor, because he indicated that all the professional military advice went in to put down the Olavs protection. Now there have been other reports, which the government has not stressed, which have concluded in a completely different direction. If it was so simple to just follow the trade-military advice, you really wouldn't have to be on the Storting. There may be a thought of the nomination committee in the Workers' Party in Troms being able to do some work in the future. So it's like Bjørn Jacobsen has said that Olavsværn will or can be resurrected. It is clear that the representative Bjørn Jacobsen believes in a life after death, or he must have some kind of magic powder so that he can conjure up life in Olavsverm, which he and the representative Arnesen today make sure to settle down.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1281	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1049]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1297	Document No 5 for 2007-2008 concerns the Ombudsman’s name for the defence report on the activities from 1 January to 31. of December 2007. A number of the issues mentioned in the report have been addressed in St.prp. No 48 for 2007-2008, and through its treatment by the Stortingen, cf. Inner. S. No 318 for 2007-2008. The Committee takes note, inter alia, of: that the denominator is concerned about the irresponsible high level of duty on the part of vulnerable persons in some departments. The Committee points out that, in previous reports, the Committee has repeatedly requested that the Security Council be assessed for further location to the defence management. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Progressive Party and the Right, find it unsatisfactory that this issue has not yet been discussed, despite the fact that several cases have been raised. Otherwise, the Committee takes note that with regard to the safety clearance of crews, this remains an area in which matters generally take too long. The Committee considers that this is an adverse situation and is of little benefit both to the defence and to the defence. The Committee has also noted that on several occasions the Committee has pointed out that the Code of Conduct for Service Calls, i.e. Staff Calls, for Protective Crews and the Rules for the issuing of Military Certificate of Service, needs to be better followed up by many departments. Otherwise, the Committee agrees that the activities of Adult Training will be reinforced and assessed in a broader way for the January indents of the compulsory protection. The Committee notes that problems with access to doctors, nurses and nurses have been improved, but still not satisfactorily resolved. The Committee is concerned that the soldiers should receive a satisfactory medical offer during the service; this also applies to dental services for those under protection. Here you can again refer to the above-mentioned landing proposal and setting, where it is used, for example. it appears that efforts will be made to identify and implement measures to streamline and strengthen the Sanitary Service of Defence, including through internal efficiency improvement and further development of the cooperation between FSAN and the sanitary activities of the defence sectors. The Committee has also noted that, on several occasions, it has expressed strong concern about the lack of psychiatric services and that people such as: suffer from post-traumatic stress disorder associated with their military service, experience a lack of protection and little or no follow-up from the Defence. In addition, the work undertaken to strengthen the psychiatry and psychology services in the Defence Department is referred to. The Committee also takes note of the fact that the Advocate-General also reports in 2007 on the lack of competence in the departments and the lack of or incorrect reporting in the context of the Advocate-General’s inspection of penalties. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Party of Advancement and the Right, shall be required to strengthen and comply with the relevant provisions. Otherwise, the Committee takes note of the fact that, as far as some aspects of the situation of apprentices are concerned, the development is at an active and positive stage. The Committee notes that there is still a good deal to be done before the situation can be said to be fully satisfactory. Otherwise, the parties have some special comments, which I think they present themselves. The members of the Progress Party note that, according to the Ombudsman, representatives of the civil service organisations express great concern about the working environment in the Defence. We take note that transparency was considered to be much better when the head of defence was separated from the Ministry of Defence. We assume that these conditions are improved by better communication and cooperation between the Defence Management and the civil service organisations. We record that the official organisations are constantly putting the workload on the line, and take this as a sign that the conversion phase has not stabilised, and that this is an additional burden for the employees. We note that the military and political leadership of the Defense are familiar with the imbalance between mission and resources, and expect the Government to bring balance to these relationships. The Progress Party and the Right, like the Ombudsman, are committed to the good follow-up of the trustee apparatus and to the continued priority of the TMO and HMS courses. We believe that a well-functioning TMO device is an important contribution to well-being and cohesion in defence, and welcome the fact that the TMO device contributes to an increasing number of disputes finding its solution through informal and formal contacts between the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1329	Today we are dealing with the position on the Ombudsman’s subject of the defence report for 2007, which I believe is a very important matter. The Ombudsman shall contribute to ensuring the general human rights of defence personnel and to dealing with matters of a fundamental nature or of general interest. It is good that there has been a slight decrease in the number of complaints that have been dealt with by the Ombudsman, and I hope that this will continue to decrease in the years to come. I have noticed that in the Ombudsman's report, it is used as an expression of the fact that the defence staff are being 'took to silence'. I do not think it is good to use such language, and I expect the Ombudsman in the future not to use such characteristics without being able to substantiate this in a completely different way than is the case in this communication. It is positive that the Ministry of Defence and Defence have regular meetings with representatives of the elected representatives in order to find appropriate solutions for those responsible for protection. I'm concerned that it still takes a relatively long time for the defense crew to get security clearance. In my view, this is a poor situation both for the defence and for those involved. However, I am aware that the Ministry of Defence has received a report on the accelerated procedure for data protection officers. I am therefore confident that in the time to come, the work on security clearance will be carried out more quickly from reception to clearance, if necessary, given. I am pleased that access to doctors and nurses has improved, although it is still not entirely satisfactory. The working party is committed to providing full medical and dental care during the service to the guardians. In this context, I would like to point out that in the summer we dealt with St.prp. No 48 for 2007-2008, cf. Innst.S No. 318 for 2007–08, where one of the themes was a strengthening of the health of the defence. It is therefore gratifying that in the 2009 state budget we have got a strengthening of the health of the defence. The Ombudsman’s report expresses concern about the psychiatry service in the Defence Department and that there are people with stress disorders associated with their military service. I'm not going to go into the depth of the veteran problem, but I can assure you that there's an area that's occupying us strongly. To repeat what I said in my speech during the treatment of the defence budget, a lot has happened under this government that has improved the situation for the veterans. I recognize that there is more to be done here, but I'm absolutely sure that we finally get to the goal of good solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1346	It's like the case spokesperson said, a very important thing that is now being presented to us. I have noticed the employee investigation that was in the defense, and the feedback that came there – that one has problems with bullying, unwanted sexual attention, workload and also lack of association. We sometimes get letters from parents, and not least mothers, who are a little shocked by what the boys experience when they come in, and there may be some rough times. At the same time, we have assumed that they have been taken into account in the best possible way. But there's no doubt that someone is being bullied, and someone is coming into a culture that's ahead of them. So this has to work on more, and it's good that the ombudsman pulls it out. It's good with sexual attention if it's the right way, but we're trying to increase the female part of the defense without using coercion, and then we're going to have to sort out when it's about sexuality around in the various military camps, so that this becomes a non-existent problem in the future. Because if we're going to recruit women, the first thing is that they have to feel safe when they're inside. So here I also hope that the ombudsman will follow up this work further. So for this with work load and wear. I think the most important thing we can do is – and that is because I think the greatest burden is for those who are out there – to get even better planned operations, even better preparation for those who are going out, and then we have to spread it across more defence branches. I think we're getting there. There will be other types of operations – perhaps more training and less sharp operations. I think it could help with the work loads and the wear we see on the staff. But perhaps first of all, we need to get more of the defenses involved in this work. So finally, Bendiks H. Arnesen was also involved with this with the veterans. No one's any better than the defense to celebrate and to have good positions and to distribute medals, and it's probably about 70 ways to distinguish people in the defense. But then it may be even tougher for those standing outside; or as Arnulf Upperland – I believe – write in a poem, that «there is a dance, but I am standing outside and trampling the pace». It's the worst situation you can get into when it's celebrating – whether it's at Rena, in Harstad, in Molde, or where it might be – and if people feel outside here, and maybe in addition are mentally ill, we have to do everything we can to catch them. I know from Ålesund and also from other places that the crew itself is making contact with the one who knows maybe wears a little bit, gets them in, socializes them. But I want to make sure that even the Ombudsman's subject must follow the fact that this work is done – that people are seen, and that people are drawn into the communities that are, and of course that the defence is also careful that everyone joins in the context where it is celebrated, because that's where those who need it most can have a tendency to fall outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1359	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1053]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1375	St. pp. No 14 for 2008-2009, on changes in the State budget, address a number of economic changes. Among the major changes are: Coast Guard budget with an increase of 54 million. NOK 6 million in the rescue helicopter service. SEK, Norwegian forces abroad by 148 million. kr and not least FLO with 336 million. kr. But something has also been reduced, for example. Homeland by $4 million. kr., Air Force 3 million. NOK 23 million in defense of the sea. SEK, new material acquisition and construction of 11 million. kr, and not least the Army will be reduced by 42 million. kr. All of the numbers are approximate. There are also other chapters that either increase or decrease, which can be read in the staging proposition. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Right, noted that the overall expenditure framework was reinforced by DKK 231.13 million. The majority record that the total operational budget has been proposed to be strengthened by 495,753 million. kr, while the investment budget has been proposed to be reduced by 264,623 million. kr. The Defence Manager has recommended an activity adjustment on the branch chapters to redeploy to more priority activities in the budgets of the Defence Logistics Organisation, Coast Guard, Norwegian forces abroad and joint institutions under the Defence Staff. The majority take note that such an activity adjustment is important for the defence manager’s overall management of the defence activities. It is noted that the activities of the Army, the Marine Defense and to some extent the Air Force and the Home Guard have been reduced in order to strengthen the defence chief's more priority tasks in the Defence. Adequate and good training and practice are the responsibility of the operational departments. It is assumed that a reduction in activity does not affect the tasks and quality of the defence. It is expected that the reduction in the framework of large new acquisitions will not go beyond the acquisition needs of defence. The Progress Party and the Right have on a number of occasions expressed concerns about the operational situation of the Defence and refer to their respective Inn comments. S. No 318 for 2007-2008 and budget-inside. S. No 7 for 2008-2009. We point out that the 2008 budget already had a number of shortcomings in the level of defence operations and operations. The Progress Party and the Right have also previously noted in particular the level of exercise as a challenge. In St. prp. No 14 for 2008-2009, it is reported that activity adjustments have been made during the year. These adjustments, which in reality represent a reduction in activity, have not been sufficient and it is now proposed to transfer 250 million. kr from the investment budget. The Progress Party and the Right see this as a clear expression that the situation is not satisfactory and that the operational budget was already unrealistically low. The Progress Party and the Right will again demonstrate that the budgetary documents in the defence sector are written in such general terms as to impair the ownership of the defence policy by the Stortinge and the ability of the Stortinge to budget its operations with sufficient precision and to verify the budgetary procedures. The Progress Party and the Right will also raise concerns about the level of investment. The long-term programme launched in 2009 is based on an annual reduction of DKK 1.6 billion compared to the current long-term level. The reductions in the 2009 draft budget and the proposal now presented by the Government in St.prp. No In addition, 14 for 2008-2009 for the current year on redisposals are added. The Progress Party and the Right will support, with reference to the fact that consumption has to be forced into the limits of the adopted budget for 2008, the proposals made in St.prp. No 14, but emphasises that the alternative budgets of these parties for the year 2008 would have provided a framework that would have been better adapted to the defence's tasks and needs. Otherwise, the Workers' Party and SV have their specific comments, which they will probably explain.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1396	Initially, I would like to say that the regrouping proposal is an important tool for ensuring good financial management in the defence sector. It is absolutely necessary to have the opportunity to balance the defence budget when new tasks arise. The regrouping proposal is also an important tool for ensuring purely technical changes during the financial year. We've been busy keeping the volume of the regrouping proposition at the lowest possible level. In addition to such changes, such as: due to the transfer of budgetary responsibilities between the different chapters, formalises the regrouping proposal for the 2008 compensation of wages and salaries and revenues that were initially not budgeted. Overall, the proposed regrouping represents an increase in the defence budget of 231.13 million. kr. This increase applies to revenue as a whole. Proposals for major changes, in addition to purely technical ones, relate to the strengthening of priority activities in the chapters of the Defence Logistics Organisation, the Coast Guard, Norwegian forces abroad and joint institutions under the Defence Staff. Strengthening is mainly linked to increased costs due to higher fuel prices, subsequent release of gains and higher costs of logistical instability. Strengthening is achieved by redeploying internal defence budgets, including: 250 million. kr from the tangible investment budget. The Defence Manager has recommended such temporary re-disposal in order to avoid operational consequences. There are concerns expressed in the statement about both the level of material investment in the long-term perspective and the fact that, in the regrouping, I have proposed transferring funds from material investment to priority operations in 2008. Firstly, I would like to say that the level is balanced with the agreed structure of the long-term plan. To the concern about this transfer in 2008, I can say that this is made possible by the occurrence of project-related delays. This reduction will be reduced by strengthening the material investment area in the period 2010-2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1409	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 1053]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1425	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that three replies be given with comments from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1434	In a few years, the international gambling industry has grown to be one of the major entertainment and media industries, and the Nordic computer gambling market is developing rapidly. The computer game crash message is therefore a timely message. There is a broad consensus that the development of computer games should be an important part of the overall cultural effort. In the following, I take the view of the majority and assume that the Progress Party itself will explain its views in those areas where the Progress Party has a dissenting view on the matter. Today, the market is dominated by imported games. With the position of computer games in the everyday lives of children and young people, it is important from a linguistic and cultural policy perspective to increase the amount of computer games in Norwegian and Norwegian content. Computer games are something far more than pure entertainment or a useful educational tool. Game development involves various actors with artistic and cultural skills and thus has an exciting potential to create more cultural workplaces. The computer gambling industry in Norway is mainly concentrated in the Oslo area. The majority believe that such business development could provide attractive skills jobs across the country. The computer gambling industry is a knowledge-intensive industry experiencing strong competition from other industries in terms of wage levels and labour supply. Several Norwegian institutions in the university and higher education sectors offer their own education aimed at the gambling industry. The government announces a mapping of the environments of competence and the need for recruitment. The Norwegian computer gambling industry is characterised by several small enterprises and in reality by only one major established operator. The fact that it is a young industry in strong competition with dominant foreign players means that the computer gambling industry in Norway is in a demanding position. Since the Norwegian market is so small, it should be an objective to develop the Norwegian data game industry so that it reaches out and can also claim itself in markets other than Norwegian. The gambling industry is a very labour-intensive industry with high wage costs. This, combined with a long development phase before a finished product can be put into production and yield, means that the waste industry in Norway needs to attract risk capital. The same majority would point out the urgent need to ensure better framework conditions for the development of good Norwegian computer games in different genres, based on Norwegian language and content. In addition to targeted grant and procurement schemes and the active stimulation of research and development, measures against piracy and copyright protection will be essential to strengthen the economy in the industry. The majority indicate that developments in this sector are moving very rapidly. The Government announces the continuation and strengthening of the existing grant scheme for the development of computer games. Better grant schemes need to be put in place quickly to stimulate and strengthen the economy in the different parts of the value chain. Studies show that Norwegian consumers are little aware of and aware of Norwegian-produced computer games. The same majority therefore favour the introduction of a grant for the launch of computer games. Only one regional film fund has explicitly declared grants for the development of computer games. The majority believe that the possibilities for such regional grants should be made known and should also apply in other parts of the country. A few public libraries already offer loans for computer games in their branches. A separate purchasing and lending mechanism for Norwegian computer games under the auspices of the public libraries shall be further investigated. However, the establishment of a purchasing and lending system concerns copyright issues that need to be clarified. The Ministry calls for an inquiry into the possibilities of extending the existing fee on the marketing of films and DVDs to computer games, which will provide an increased subsidy basis for the production of Norwegian computer games. Such a sectoral tax could have consequences for the whole value chain. The majority therefore share the Government’s view that such a proposal must be subject to a thorough investigation assessing both the economic and legal implications. Both the Spillproducer Association and the Producers Association support a further investigation of such a sector fee. The right and the left will not oppose an investigation, but I assume that these parties themselves will explain the concerns related to the introduction of any sectoral fee these parties have. Computer games are essentially a source of positive experiences and of utility for different purposes. However, the Committee is concerned about a trend in which an increase in the number of people who have been hooked on computer games is reported and therefore calls on the Ministry to give priority to strengthening knowledge on the prevalence of problem-solving use of computer games. In addition, the Committee welcomes the fact that parts of the provision from Norwegian Typing for action against gambling can also be used for action against problematic use of computer games. Finally, the majority would stress the importance of increased knowledge of the relationship between problem-making and non-money games to ensure that state grant schemes only support good Norwegian computer games. With this I recommend setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1477	As a mother and an old grandmother, it has been exciting to see how a whole new world has opened up to children and young people through the computer and media world. I have also had some reflections on how my own attitudes towards this world have been challenged and changed, starting with concern to look at young people in the house who suffer from skyscrapers with no interests other than this computer screen, to see that this activity opened up new opportunities, new matches, other friends and other interests than what I could motivate. Evolution has continued, and in computer games I see a new arena for entertainment, for learning and for skill training. That it's circumstantial, I get demonstrated in these pre-Christmas days, where computer games are at the top of my grandchildren' wish list. The turnover of computer games over disk amounts to DKK 4 billion in the Nordic region. In the United States, the largest retail market in the gambling industry, turnover in 2006 was DKK 54 billion, and the industry is still growing. This development will affect consumers where many are children and young people. It will shape the development of the experience industry, the development of industry and the economy associated with it. And because game development is a highly knowledge-driven and innovation-driven field, it will set requirements for development, research and education. With the numbers I've referred to earlier, one could maybe lean back and say that here's the market so big that this can control itself without political involvement. But the father is here as in the other entertainment industry that we are colonized by American culture if we don't do anything. It is therefore culturally important that we draw up a policy for the development of Norwegian-produced computer games, a policy for innovation, research, production and financing. Computer game development is both time-consuming and economical. Norway is a small market, and it must therefore have additional incentives to compete, among others. with the US production. The policy drawn up in this Communication is also in line with the project initiative taken by Norway in the Nordic Council to develop Nordic computer programmes – part of a wider strategy to meet the challenges of globalisation. By visualising and cultivating the Nordic welfare values, a developing Nordic region will be a competitive region. Both in the Nordic Language Declaration and in the language notification submitted, there is concern about linguistic loss. I look at my grandchildren and think it's fine with all the English that they learn through the computer games, but at the same time I'm worried about the loss of Norwegian words and about the values and attitudes of the games. In this way, Norwegian and Nordic computer games will be a desired counterweight. In the end, I have a Christmas wish for my oldest grandson – Robin – that he will take me to the boys' room and give me some hours of training in practical computer games, so that I too can get into this exciting world for which we are currently drawing up political guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1494	In a few years, the computer game industry has grown to be one of the major industries. Computer games are available in almost all homes where there are residents under 50 years of age. Billions of dollars are traded, and information provided in this message indicates that you are about to pass the market for record sales and legal downloading of music. In Norway, too, turnover is significant, approx. DKr 4 billion. Computer games are now a very central part of many people’s cultural and media everyday life, especially for children and young people. You shouldn't have messed around much in the Christmas trade until you see that creativity is great in terms of games. There are all kinds of games, ranging from pedagogical games to sports simulators and other skill games – as well as games with raw violence, of which you can of course discuss both the benefits and the desire. We in the Progress Party have noticed that the other parties believe that it is now necessary to enter and regulate this industry through excise duty, language and content requirements, subsidy and purchasing systems and active stimulation of research and development. So you have to take into account an industry that's proven to be good and growing, and start specializing in it from a political point of view, despite the fact that all experience suggests that where politicians start to interfere in well-functioning markets, the result is not good. The Party considers that special measures and specific arrangements should be very careful. The best thing we can do is to provide the best possible framework conditions for all industries – including in this context – in particular for those based on high technology and competences. It should be possible to facilitate the development by Norway of both good Norwegian computer games in different songs based on Norwegian languages and content and games for the international market. It is therefore critical for the party to decide whether its own subsidy and purchasing schemes for the industry are the way to go. But it is obvious that this is an industry that will benefit from the overall level of research and development. In this context, we will recall the significant ‘sleep cutting’ of the sitting government has taken on this field. The Committee believes that the computer gambling industry has a high potential for further development. We note that the other parties almost uncritically endorse the proposal in the communication to explore a separate purchasing and lending mechanism for Norwegian computer games under the auspices of the public libraries. We believe that it should not be a primary task for public libraries to offer loans for computer games and DVD in their branches. So to say that all children in Norway have access to computer, games and DVD. We cannot see the need to establish such a system. Furthermore, it is clear that the establishment of a purchasing and lending system concerns copyright issues that need to be resolved, and we cannot see that these issues are finally resolved. The Progress Party considers that the Ministry in the notification is in favour of extending the existing fee on the marketing of films and DVDs to computer games. Like the majority of industry players, we believe that this idea should be scrapped, and we are promoting a concrete proposal on this. If politicians could keep their fingers away from this industry, there is only one thing that concerns the Progress Party, and it is the fact that some children and young people spend too much time in front of their computers, thus becoming physically inactive. Finally, I would like to refer to the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1517	The representative Knut Gjerde has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1520	We handle a big message that is instructive and good, and that addresses most of the questions you might think were relevant. I agree with the rapporteur's excellent presentation of this matter. I know as Right-Man that fear grips me a little bit when the representative Hildeng talks about political involvement, or developing a policy with too much control. I join it to the extent that it is about stimulating, and then scepticism grows when it comes to regulating. It may be that we need some regulation, but first of all, here we are meeting a need to stimulate an industry in growth, and make sure that we get a good industry that works in Norway, which can help produce games and fill that part of the digital public, so that we have a good Norwegian content to deal with. This is an industry that is faced with great demands. Here's tough competition from the outside. And it's probably more than in any other area an industry that's like this, the weave into an international market, not only on the sales side, but also through ways of producing -- being ahead of it all the time to have a good expression. So we're in. The right is involved in everything that can stimulate this industry, prepare the ground and ensure that we can achieve good growth in Norway. The message is so clear that I expect that there will be many crossroads in the future when this is to be concrete in relation to matters or budgets. With regard to the issue of the sector tax, we have the same objections to this crossroads as we had in the case of the DVD tax, and it is quite simply that we are a little concerned about whether fees here would rather be a barrier to the industry than stimulate it. In that case, we think that is a bad idea. We're also not sure to what extent it will be possible to enforce. We will probably also come back to this, but so far is not the enthusiasm for the sector fee. Finally, I would like to say a little bit about copyright. In recent times, there have been some issues that primarily relate to electronic art – and there is something slightly different than this, at least in relation to what we traditionally associate with it. There have been issues related to storage, related to care requirements in the context of deletion, related to issues relating to extradition requirements – short and well a number of issues that I believe should be raised in the copyright law and not, as I believe is the case today, primarily left to contractual works and to more bond law laws. Not least I think this will be relevant in a sector that will be small in Norway. Here you will be able to make use of operators of services from outside, and works, and parts of works, will be able to remain in the hands of others quickly. I actually think it would be important to put some principles at the bottom of how this should be legally formulated. So I join in all the main features of the message. I want everything good for a Norwegian gaming industry and hope that we can do what is a major challenge: to gain good competence in this area in our small country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1537	Today we process an important message, St.meld. No 14 for 2007-2008 on computer games. Computer games have become an important part of children’s and young people’s culture and media everyday life, and the use of computer games is increasing — including among grandmothers, as we have heard earlier here today. It is therefore important that children and young people have access to high-quality games, based on Norwegian language and culture. This will be an important step forward in our cultural policy. Computer games can contribute positively to stimulating the imagination, creativity and learning of children and young people. Good Norwegian computer games should therefore be an important element in the development of the cultural school bag. The industry depends on good grant schemes, measures against piracy and copyright protection. It is absolutely necessary to strengthen the economy in the industry. The gambling industry is an industry of great growth. Many new jobs are created, and the development of computer games depends on a profession based on creativity, innovation and technological competence. Some games contain items that are not suitable for children, while other games may be a source of learning and knowledge. It's serious that some games can create addiction. High quality research and education is therefore important, together with information, in order to raise awareness and ensure the safe use of computer games. Computer games are not only entertainment, they are also a useful educational tool. A study shows that Norwegian consumers pay little attention to Norwegian-produced computer games, while there are positive attitudes to Norwegian games. This may mean that there is a potential for Norwegian games on the market. SV therefore believes, together with the majority, that developing the Norwegian data game industry must be an objective. The Communication also proposes to explore a separate purchasing and lending mechanism for Norwegian computer games under the auspices of the public libraries. We believe this will help to make the library even more attractive for children and young people. In this context, copyright issues need to be clarified. SV is also in favour of a sectoral charge on computer games that can provide an increased subsidy basis for the production of Norwegian computer games. The proposal must be examined. SV, in line with the majority, is concerned that there is a report of an increase in requests from people who are hooked on computer games. Priority must therefore be given to improving knowledge of the prevalence of problem-solving use of computer games and careful monitoring of developments.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1554	The computer game notification may be the first video game broadcast in the world to deal with the media. Computer games are a source of joy and entertainment for very many people. Technological developments in the game field have been enormous in recent years, and more and more players, especially children and young people. Games can be pure entertainment, but many games also offer opportunities for learning and developing different skills. In addition, the computer game industry provides important work and development opportunities for cultural workers in the fields of music, graphics and much more. This makes computer games an important sector, and this crash message shows that we're taking computer games seriously. With this message, we make it clear that computer games are part of the government's cultural effort. We have four main objectives for computer games: to develop good Norwegian computer games in different genres based on Norwegian language and content. We're going to have a viable Norwegian game producer business. Norway shall have competence, innovation and technology development in computer games, and the use of computer games shall be safe. There are ambitious targets that require concrete action. That is why we are proposing both new measures and strengthening existing schemes. To achieve the goal of viable Norwegian gaming producer environments that can create good computer games for children and young people, we will strengthen the existing game development grant scheme. This scheme has been a success, and without grants it would not have been possible to create most Norwegian-produced games that have come in recent years. We want to give more money to this system and make sure that there are even more good games coming out. It is also important that the games are well launched, so that they come out to consumers. We will therefore introduce a new system of launch grants for computer games, as we have in the field of film. This will allow Norwegian game distributors to get help in the competition with the major foreign titles. We will continue the Nordic grant scheme for computer games, the Nordic computer game program. This programme has recently been evaluated and is a success that has strengthened the Nordic gambling industry. The government will also develop a purchasing system for library computer games. Several libraries already offer computer games today, and there is a need to clarify the issues of copyright. We will also deal with this in the library message that comes to spring. In order to finance an increased bet on computer games grants, we propose to explore an extension of the sector fee on film and videograms to include computer games. This is a tax that has been living with the film and video industries for many years and has contributed to a number of important cultural activities in the field of film. In the context of this investigation, a consultation will be held to allow the entire industry to express its views. It is not the case that the Government has drawn a conclusion in advance. We're doing this with an open mind. Computer games are also a source of learning. I am therefore pleased with the excellent recording that has come from the members of the Committee from the government parties to make computer games an element in the cultural school bag. This is a proposal we look at positively in the department and will take us along in the further work. Finally, to the fourth objective, we also address some of the issues of computer games in the message, including: the content of violence and problematic use. We propose to strengthen the media surveillance information activities on the safe use of computer games, and we will investigate the prevalence of computer game dependence. We know from the Game addicts Guide that there are also some queries that are related to games that do not have money prizes involved. For this purpose, we will use some of the provision from Norwegian Typing for action against gambling. I think this is a sector that provides both opportunities for good jobs, for Norway to participate in an international market, and for creating products with Norwegian content. So I think there's an important meeting point between the computer game industry, film production, that also uses many of the same technologies, and the development of teaching materials and development projects that strengthen the education sector, which I also know from my time as Minister of Education. I think new teaching materials can also use some of the technology used by the computer games sector. I am pleased that Norway has received its first video game programming message – probably the first anywhere in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1584	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1588	As you know, the Progress Party is opposed to a sectoral tax on computer games in line with the one on film and DVD, which we also opposed. The majority argue that the sectoral tax may allow for increased subsidy bases for the production of Norwegian computer games. Then I have two questions for the Council of State. Firstly, in the case of grants to Norwegian computer games, is this not anti-competitive and in conflict with the EEA Agreement? Secondly, what are the eligibility criteria for the production of Norwegian computer games?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1595	It is possible to grant grants for the production of computer games within the EEA legislation. We also have arrangements for that today. In particular, the Nordic schemes, where the Nordic countries have merged on such a support scheme, have produced good results. Of course, we need to certify the systems we may introduce as new arrangements within the EEA system, or at least ensure that they are within the regulatory framework. But as I also said in my main post, the sector fee is something we are investigating. We haven't even concluded here. If such a sectoral tax were to be applied, it obviously had to go back to Stortinget for treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1602	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1055]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1620	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1627	The proposal before us today, where the proposers want to wind up the system of state grants and guarantee receipts for artists, has not received very much support in the committee, so I assume that the proposers will argue for their position. The main argument they use is that it is an obsolete system and that it contributes to ‘restricting the breadth of cultural life’. The majority do not agree with that position. The majority actually believe the opposite, that it is a prerequisite for the breadth of cultural life that we have a system of state scholarships and guarantee income for artists. It is also essential to get to the creative business you want in Norwegian cultural life, and it has been an important plank for art and culture in Norway up to now. In fact, we believe that such a basic system of scholarships and guarantee receipts has been absolutely essential for us to have developed art at all in this country. The only thing we agree with the rapporteurs is that there will be a debate on this in the future. The reason is not that you want to dismantle the systems, but that you want to look at their devices. You want to look at how they're organized, you want to look at how high the performances are, and how they're organized in relation to other artists' incomes. There is a life-rate survey here – and the so-called Løken Committee – and I assume that the Council of State will come back to the Stortinge in this regard. Then we get the opportunity to discuss whether this is the right way to set up such a kind of support for art life. But that we need a support for art life, there is a broad consensus in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1636	The proposers of this document No. The 8th proposal, the representatives of Ulf Erik Knudsen and Karin Woldseth, calls for the system of State grants and guarantees for artists to be terminated. In the first instance, there is a call for a halving of expenditure linked to 2009. The proposers believe that this is an obsolete scheme such as: contributes to ‘restricting the breadth of cultural life’. It's kind of strange to read the argument from the representatives Knudsen and Woldseth. On the one hand, it is to be asked that committees based on professional competence decide on the award of grants and other cultural resources – on the other hand, it is not to be expected that the government will carry out the distribution. Rather, the scarce means that, in the opinion of the Advance Party, can go to art and culture, should more or less follow a sales and popularity curve, as I understand the Advance Party. In addition, the market must regulate most if the lot receives as it pleases. I am pleased that there is a common political position in all other parties that such a prescription is not to be recommended. Grants and other cultural subsidy schemes are neither dormant medicine nor the road to free time. In fact, government grants in the cultural field are very often arranged as seed resources, as we spend public money in other areas of society to create activity and growth. After many years of cultural life, I have the pleasure of meeting artists who passively vegetate on the arrangements that exist. The allocations in the cultural field are neither of the nature nor of the magnitude that this is possible. On the contrary, they contribute to stimulating creative and performing artistic activities and thus to growth both in the cultural field and in other areas of society. We should have an ongoing discussion on all the grant schemes we have in cultural life and be open to making changes in line with the intention of ensuring artists good living and working conditions. And then we have to make sure that state support is distributed in the best possible way. This has also been the government's focus, among others. through the work of the Løken Committee, which has also led to improvements in award procedures. In addition, a survey on income and living conditions among artists has been carried out by Telemark research, which shows that many artists belong to the low-wage group and therefore need a raise in terms of pay and living conditions. As a society, we need the art and the artists. That is why we must also have public arrangements to ensure that we can have that very thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1649	When the guaranteed income for artists was introduced in 1977, the main objective was to 'provide artists with financial security and the ability to have artistic activity as their main occupation'. If the recipient continues to show sufficient artistic quality, this support is retained until retirement. When this system was set up, shortening rules were also introduced in relation to what they earned on their art. Of those who receive guarantee income, there are 70 pst. which does not receive any curtailment in the income of the State and thus earns no more of its art than the free amount, namely 66 000. That means it's approx. 350 artists who have guaranteed income until retirement and who do not need to produce and sell for more than 66 000 per year. years. I should also have done my handicrafts. This guarantee income does not encourage artists to sell their works, because then you can get over the amount of free money of 66 000. The danger of this, as the Progress Party sees it, is that the goal is to get guarantee income from the state, and then to have very good days. You can get too fast. We've seen examples that this has been exploited, and it was hardly the intention when we started this scheme. Of course, in the case of artists' scholarships, that's not all we want to touch here. That an artist can apply for a travel grant or a temporary allowance, we don't think of it as a real problem – one place artists also have to be able to apply to fill up their skills. But what really matters is that an increasingly large group of artists actually get this scholarship. The number of scholarships and other state scholarships is increasing. 387 scholarships were awarded and as much as 12,000 other state scholarships were awarded in 2006. And it's okay to ask whether it's realistic to think that all of these will ever be able to feed themselves on their art. What is perhaps the biggest dilemma, is that these are state scholarships, where selection takes place by the selection of trade unions in the Council of Culture. There are strong ties to the state, which – whether you like it or not – makes the artist dependent on the state. And then it boils down to that it's the state that finally decides what to see, hear and read. For us in the Progress Party, it is important that there is a wide range of art and cultural life, but the most important thing is to get the most back on the resources you invest. When you can go for three years on guarantee income without being controlled, I am not sure whether the guarantee income – and scholarships to that extent – will be anything other than a sleeping cushion. There are very few other countries that use state resources to reward performers in the way they do in Norway. We have faith in other incentives, for example. artist communities, such as in London, accounting and marketing training for their own products – and not least belief in their own products – and perhaps favourable tax schemes as incentives to stimulate artists to produce enough to support themselves. With this I also address our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1664	The representative Karin S. Woldseth has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1667	Document No 8:119 for 2007-2008 is a proposal from the Progress Party to wind up the scheme of State scholarships and guarantee income for artists. The proposers request that the scheme of State scholarships and artists’ guarantee revenue be reviewed with a view to halving the costs of the scheme in 2009. First of all, the proposers want to wind up the scheme immediately because, in their opinion, it is a obsolete scheme, such as: contributes to ‘restricting the breadth of cultural life’. This is SV completely disagreed. The foreseeable economy of artists will also lead to greater diversity and breadth. It is important that it is organised for different expressions, so that we get a variety of expressions for children and young people and the adult audience. This type of support is essential and has a significant impact on artistic activity and freedom in a number of fields. Over several major periods, SV has proposed a review of the artist’s living conditions, and we are pleased that this has now been done. Many artists have predictable revenues and cannot live by their art. It is serious because it can cause young people not to dare or to invest in the development of their art. We also have major challenges with pension rights and, not least, equality. For example, it is a major challenge to: are not enough roles for older women. The report of the Løken Committee and the survey on income and living conditions among artists – carried out by Telemarksforsking-Bø – has recently been consulted. SV agrees with the Council of State that these reports, together with their consultation responses, will be useful basic documents for further efforts to ensure good living and working conditions for artists. Here we refer to the letter from the Council of State to the Committee on 12 September 2008. There has been a broad political consensus in recent years about maintaining the system of scholarships and guarantee receipts. The debate on these schemes has largely focused on the way in which such State aid schemes are organised – not to eliminate them. SV believes that this should continue to be the starting point, but we, as the majority of the Committee, are open, in cooperation with the artists, to make changes in line with the intention, in order to ensure them good living and working conditions. Finally, SV, together with the majority, assumes that the Government will return to the Storting in an appropriate context with an assessment of the continuation of the guarantee income and of various types of grant schemes as well as other relevant aspects relating to the conditions of life and work of artists.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1682	Grants and guarantee receipts help to give artists who have shown that they deliver art of high quality, economic freedom to concentrate on artistic ideas and artistic development. I read the proposal there that the representatives believe that scholarships and guarantee receipts prevent market management of the art. If the art is to be controlled by the market alone, the artist will be forced to think only commercially. I have problems seeing that it can contribute to diversity and breadth. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the Committee agrees that state support schemes for artists are essential for artistic activity and freedom in several genres, and that they contribute to creating breadth and diversity in Norwegian cultural life. One of the points of the Cultural Promise is to improve the living conditions of artists. In the Ministry of Culture and the Church's 2009 budget proposal, we therefore propose to increase the number of grants by 15 and to increase the grant by NOK 10 000. I am concerned that the Ministry's arrangements should be designed to maximise the quality of art and ensure that artists have acceptable living and working conditions. Telemark research has recently carried out a life-cycle study that shows that it can be very difficult to feed as an artist and that many artists are poor. The average artistic income in 2006 was about NOK 190 000 — significantly lower than the average income of most other occupations. The distance between those who serve the most, and those who serve the least, is great. At the bottom are artists, artisans, and artistic photographers with average income from artistic work of 86 000 kroner, 109 000 kroner, and 62 000 kroner respectively. The results make us more sure that the grant and guarantee income schemes are successful, because there are primarily artist groups with little commercial potential who receive scholarships and guarantee income. In its report, the Licensing Committee points out that the artist community has changed considerably since the design of the guarantee income scheme in the 1970s, and recommends phasing out the guarantee income scheme for the benefit of work grants. The Ministry will take a closer look at the answers to the opinion of the Løken Committee and come back to Stortinget with an assessment of how artistic policy should be designed. An artist who has been granted guarantee income retains it until he reaches retirement age. The State grant and guarantee income for artists regulation states: ‘If it is decided that the guarantee income scheme be terminated or restricted, artists who hold guarantee income and are affected by the relationship shall otherwise receive satisfactory support up to the retirement age of the people’s security, if they would otherwise meet the guarantee income requirements.’;» In other words, only available guarantee income – approx. 20 and 30 per year – which may be re-disposaled for other purposes. If the representative proposal to halve the costs of grants and guarantees received a majority, it would in practice mean in 2009 that the allocation of grants and miscellaneous grants falls away. It would mean that one of our most important artistic policy instruments to ensure the diversity and breadth of the offer of visual art, music, stage art, literature and other would be gone. I am therefore pleased that it seems that this proposal does not have a majority in the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1702	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1055]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1718	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that up to five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1725	The proposal from the Christian People's Party focuses on a real environmental problem. Each year, according to the World Watch Institute, between 4 and 5 trillion plastic bags are produced. Here I have to add that there has been a slight error in the comment from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, where reference is made to ‘trillions’ – but that is the English term. Unfortunately, a very small proportion is recycled. Many of the plastic bags end up in nature, where it takes up to hundreds of years to break them down. It makes plastic bags an international but also a national environmental problem. In addition, the production of plastics depends on oil. The Committee fully agrees with this. On the other hand, the Committee disagrees with the view of the polluter-pays principle, whether the real cost of the plastic bag in terms of environmental damage should be reflected in the price of the bag or whether to introduce other measures to limit the scope of the plastic bag usage. The Committee's minority, consisting of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, points out that an environmental tax or other measure could reduce its scope. Other measures could include prohibitions and other forms of regulatory regulation and voluntary cooperation with the shops. Plastic bags have a number of practical properties that make them very popular. They are lightweight, reasonable and waterproof. Compared to paper bags, they are also less energy-intensive to produce, they create less pollution and less waste. Good alternatives to plastic bags will therefore be reusable bags and retail networks made of more powerful substances, which allow them to be used several times, or bags made of starch from food waste or other environmentally friendly solutions. It is also possible to use plastic bags more frequently than at present if there is a greater awareness of the adverse environmental impact of the plastic bag. At the same time, it is important to point out that the plastic bags are also widely used as household waste packaging. There is something that also needs to be addressed. I'd like to add that the best thing would be if you found a similar product made with much less impact on the environment. It should be fully possible. I will assume that it is an overall committee that believes it is positive that the State pollution regulators have been given the task of providing an overview of the environmental impact of today's use of plastic bags and their alternatives. This screening and evaluation work should have been completed. Any measures taken in the light of this evaluation are deferred. That's too bad. State Council Solheim was exceptionally clear in its opinions to the NRK: ‘In China they prohibit plastic bags, in Ireland they have imposed charges on bags and in Australia a ban is being discussed. Then we cannot be worse». The NRK further announced that Solheim hoped to see a change in the course of the year, either through a roll-out decision or through cooperation with the industry. I hope this is not enough of an example that in the Government there is a difference between word and action. Finally, let me comment on the comments made by the Progress Party on the introduction of the landfill ban from 1 July 2009, which will mean that most of Norwegian plastic bags will be used after use for incineration in energy recovery plants. As the part of progress specifies that the good calorific value of the plastic bags is now being used, it will result in less use of oil or gas to increase the temperature of the combustion plants. I don't think anyone disagrees. However, such a position would unfortunately not mean anything to reduce the widespread use of plastic bags, nor the environmental impact. In conclusion, I will address the proposal on which the Right stands with the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1756	The representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1759	In its letter to the Committee, the Council of State has underlined its personal commitment to this matter. Even before this proposal was promoted by the Christian People's Party, he had asked the SFT to monitor the environmental impact of today's use of plastic bags and their alternatives. The results of the survey are mentioned in proposals for a State budget to be debated here in the plenary session on Monday. The screening shows that plastic or textile multi-use bags are most environmentally friendly, provided they are reused sufficiently often. However, plastic bags come out better environmentally than paper bags. The study also found that plastic bags form an essential part of household waste management. About 80 pst. of the plastic bags are used as waste packaging. This is usually after-use, in that they have been used as packaging for household goods. In addition, the survey revealed that a very small proportion of the plastic bags end up in nature, which is very positive. While there is a certain degree of re-use, plastic bags pose an environmental challenge. In the SFT screening, it is noted that more plastic bags are consumed than necessary and even 80 pst. used for waste management, it is therefore 20 pst. which ends up in garbage. With a consumption of nearly 1 billion plastic bags per year in the nation of Norway, these constitute 20 pst. a significant number and thus a significant environmental challenge. Plastic bags as an environmental challenge have been significantly focused on also internationally, and prohibitions and other legal regulations have been introduced in several places. In Los Angeles and San Francisco, government agencies forbid the distribution of plastic bags. Customers should have their own bag – or they can buy cheap bags made of paper or other degradable material. A general ban on plastic bags in Norway is probably a bit ahead of time, especially when plastic bags form such a large part of our waste management. Alternatives must be present first. Nevertheless, there is much that can be done to reverse consumption and increase reuse, and I am very pleased that the Council of State has such a strong personal commitment to this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1774	The majority of the cases in this case show that they are awaiting SFT responses to a request from the Ministry of the Environment to identify the environmental impact of today’s use of plastic bags and their alternatives. The answer from SFT to the Ministry of Environment is available – I found it on the Internet, on the websites of the SFT. It's dated September 1st. They specify: ‘Plast carrier bags play an important role in today’s waste management and approx. 82 % to be reused in one way or another: 60 % of the bags are used for packaging waste, 22 % to be used for packaging on pantry bottles, metal, glass and clothes for return points. The remaining 18 % of plastic carrier bags are not reused for waste management: 15 % is delivered for material recovery and 3 % is added to the waste.» They do not have an overview of the extent to which these items are reused for different household purposes until they are discarded. Furthermore, it is stated that: ‘Consumption statistics, taken into account in the number of bags in the waste stream, show that a very small proportion of carrier bags pose a potential problem with waste disposal.’ In view of this, the SFT considers that there is no need for State instruments to reduce the use of plastic carrier bags. Minorities, including: Right, believes that the fee is the right instrument to reduce the use of these bags. If you take SFT's answer seriously, that's not what they recommend. They believe that based on an overall assessment, there is no need to take the bags out of the market. They believe that the reduction in the number of plastic bags is already underway, as the shopping network has received increased attention recently. The same minority also refers to statements by the Council of State Erik Solheim on restrictions/bans on the use of plastic bags in other countries. The SFT considers that ‘measures put in place to limit the use of plastic bags internationally are all significantly targeted at bags that are thinner and lighter than those used in Norway, and are largely due to problems with sewage treatment and congestion’. I would also like to point out that the petroleum-based raw material used to produce plastic bags is a residual product after refining crude oil for high-grade fuel, and with the introduction of a landfill ban from 1 July next year, most of Norwegian plastic bags after use will be used for incineration in energy recovery plants. With the good calorific value in plastic bags, their combustion could somewhat reduce the need for the use of oil or gas in order to increase the temperature of combustion plants. This is a strange matter – one would almost think it was an urgent matter. There's a mapping going on, and then it's a little weird that you couldn't wait for the results of that mapping. The matter would then have a completely different outcome. I am also surprised that the Right supports this charge. The Progress Party does not.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1802	State pollution control has addressed different consultative environments in order to carry out a survey of the environmental impact of current use of plastic bags and alternatives. We were many who were excited about the mapping that was to be done. I thought I would refer to what was the conclusion of the SFT: ‘The assessment of different types of carrier bags shows that plastic bags come out better from a life-cycle perspective than paper bags. In addition, plastic carrier bags play an important role in current waste management: c. 80 % of them are used as packaging of household waste. Studies show that a very small proportion of the plastic carrier bags end up in nature. Plastic or textile trade networks are most environmentally friendly, provided they are used many times. Measures taken to limit the use of plastic bags internationally are all essentially aimed at bags that are thinner and lighter than those used in Norway, and are largely due to problems associated with sewage treatment and congestion. The SFT considers that based on an overall assessment there is no specific need to remove the plastic carrier bags from the market, although it is desirable to reduce the consumption of the bags somewhat. The use of trade networks has gained increased attention recently and is now being marketed to a greater extent than before. This is positive, and in the current situation, the SFT does not see the need for new state instruments to be put in place to reduce the consumption of plastic carrier bags. However, the SFT recommends that developments be followed and should it prove that the industry’s self-initiated actions do not lead to, the SFT will assess the need for new instruments.’ As it looks now, I think that is why it is difficult to argue for a general ban on plastic bags. However, I believe that we should look at the means to deal with the unnecessary use of plastic bags, as SFT also points out, that this is an over-consumption in relation to what is necessary. On March 9, 2008, the NRK reported that every plastic bag we throw takes 100 years to break down into nature. In Norway, we throw 1 billion bags every year. At the same time, at least according to the SFT, there are fortunately few plastic bags that actually end up in nature, and that 80 pst. used for waste management. Nevertheless, there is a share that is not being reused. We have many alternatives, and we can also develop many alternatives that are more environmentally friendly – if we want to. It is also possible that this could be an international problem. We've seen programs about it on TV. Birds have been reported in various media, e.g., that acquire plastic from plastic bags lying and floating around in the garden. World heritage areas are polluted. We have a big waste problem at all, which also has consequences for nature and animal life. After all, we are going to discuss waste problems in a broader sense later today. Now it is the case in this case that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left believe that an environmental tax should be imposed on plastic bags, in line with the polluter pays principle. I believe that we need to assess different instruments, including a fee, in order to bring down the unnecessary plastic bag usage. For example, there are probably many of us who have been given a shopping network in the last year. At least I have a whole pile at home. Despite that, most of us are probably quite reluctant to take that shopping net with us when we go to the store. I think that if a carrier bag had cost e.g. 5 kroner, many of us would be better off taking that trading net with us. There's something about being able to create habits, and it's easy to influence habits in the population. It also shows the story. Erik Solheim pointed out in his statement earlier that we have quickly waited for mobile phones. We can also refer to the Smoking Act as an example of people becoming friends of new things. The conclusion is that I believe that we should follow this field further, and, as SFT also says, we should consider different instruments. I also think we should keep the door open to assess charges in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1829	Minister for the Environment and Development Erik Solheim is good at promoting new policy initiatives in the media. Many initiatives are good and affordable. The Christian People's Party and SV have a lot in common in environmental and development policy. The problem is that only a few of the initiatives of the Council of State come to political attention in the Grand Duchy. Many of the proposals also die out and are buried after a good look. Unfortunately, this may also seem to be the case in this matter, unless the minister has some good news to come to us here in Stortinget today. Earlier in the debate, reference has been made to the Council of State opinion to the NRC on 9 March this year, where he says that we cannot be worse in Norway. He refers to Ireland, he refers to China, he refers to Australia – where there is a ban where there is a charge and where a ban is discussed. According to the NRK, he wants to get some changes in place during the year, either through a decision-making process or through cooperation with the industry. And that's where we are today. Today, the matter is being dealt with here in Stortinget, and the government parties have the opportunity to take the decision that the Council of State wanted to take on the NRK in March. The Government fraction has in the setting offered one comment on this matter. In this note, they refer to the SFT’s study of the environmental impact of current use of plastic bags. The Government Parties and the Advance Party point out: ‘These investigations could provide an important basis for assessing possible measures to ensure a sustainable reduction in the consumption of plastic bags.’ The same parties also refer to the Council's reply to the Committee dated 22 May, where he says the following: ‘After the screening work has been completed, the Government will work to put in place any tools as soon as possible.’ The survey ended on 1 September, and the government has been sitting on the final report for two months. I am therefore keen to hear what the Council of State is going to do on the basis of this report, and I expect him to make this in his contribution. I have registered that SFT in its recommendation to the department advises not to remove the plastic bags from the Norwegian market because 60 pst. the plastic carrier bags are reused as packaging for household waste and 22 pst. re-used for packaging of pant bottles, metal, glass and garments for return points. The remaining 18 pst. is not used in waste management. At the same time, the SFT points out that more plastic carrier bags are produced than is necessary in Norway and that replacing some of the bags with plastic or textile carrier nets would be an environmental benefit. I don't think this replacement is going to happen if the plastic bags don't get more expensive. Today, the Christian People's Party is asking the Government to make proposals for the Storting to introduce measures that could lead to a sustainable reduction in the consumption of plastic bags. Since plastic bags are environmentally harmful, we have called for an environmental tax. Environmental taxes will show the actual cost of the bag in terms of the environmental damage it causes. We also know that this will affect those who buy plastic bags for themselves, given that they also take into account the environmental damage they cause to others. In the debate we have had so far, many have spoken about bans. As the proposer, I have never called for a ban, but we challenge the Government to introduce environmental taxes or other measures that can ensure that the consumption of plastic bags is reduced in a sustainable way. I'm referring to Ireland, which left 50 cents and got a 90 pst reduction. In the light of the clear statements made by the Council of State in the media and the fact that his parties here today will vote against this proposal, I am excited to hear what he will do in relation to the clear statements he made at the NRK on 9 March this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1861	The left fully shares the ambition to reduce the size and use of plastic bags. It will contribute to less congestion, and it will result in less resource loss. The SFT has made an important contribution to this debate, which puts it in a context that is worth keeping in mind. However, the main conclusion is clear: the aim should be to reduce the use of plastic bags. If you think so, it is natural to support the proposal that is being promoted today by the minority. It is a scheme in which an assessment of different measures to reduce the use of plastic bags is ordered. One does not mention prohibition as a current measure, one mentions a possible charge. This is an area where it would not be unnatural for the polluter-pays principle to be based. But I'm recording that the government parties' commitment to making use of this principle is small, whether it concerns the small or the larger issues. I noticed an enthusiastic and replayed state council that in winter ordered a fee or a ban on plastic bags. He said there's so many things we've learned to be ahead of us, so we also have to be able to learn to be besides plastic bags. The opposition has not called for a ban. I have recorded that when the light from the TV cameras disappeared, the involvement in this matter was obviously lost in the Council of State party. It's a new example that there's a great deal of distance between the messages that you give, the expectations that you create, and the ones that you actually deliver. We see that in the case of the Biomultiplicity Act, as it is a scandal that still has not come to the Stortinget. We saw the last week, when the government parties agreed to vote down a turnaround of the 'no-thank you' system in the case of unaddressed advertising, which could have contributed to a significant reduction in the volume of paper waste. One also sees that one does not take into account the possibilities of reducing the resource loss associated with the distribution of the telephone directory. I look forward with great expectations to the State Council's statement on how he will land this matter, in line with the great expectations he created this winter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1870	I have gone into this matter with a strong desire to reduce the use of plastic bags in Norway, really for two reasons: one is what is highlighted here, namely that there is a certain pollution problem with them – they get into nature, they can have harmful effects, not least for birds and in other ways – but also because I believe there is a strong desire in the population to be able to do something in their daily lives that affects the major issues of climate, which can not only be solved by global action and action in places such as Melkøya or Mongstad, but also people want to be able to make their small contribution to. The starting point has clearly been how we can reduce the amount of plastic bags and how we can satisfy that desire in the population. So we use about 1 billion plastic bags a year, but most of them go to waste management. Before I go to the matter itself, I just want to say that I trace a certain irony to the two previous speakers about the word «eligibility». I think there's too little involvement in Norway. Engaged politicians are not a shell word for me. I think it's great that Kvassheim is involved in environmental issues, and so is the Christian People's Party. We should have more commitment and not less. Let's not make the term 'engaged politician' something critical. I'm saying that about everyone. But commitment is not enough. You also have to have a professional basis for what you do. The professional basis we asked the State's pollution control authorities to come along, and there are a lot of speakers here. Their professional assessment is that plastic bags are a better alternative than paper bags. I don't see any other way to control it. The professional evaluation is fully accessible and others may need to make alternative professional assessments. I can do nothing but relate to the fact that this is the best professional assessment that currently exists in Norway, and it says that plastic bags are a better alternative than paper bags. There is then no reason to try to turn the consumption towards paper bags. It also says 80 pst. plastic carrier bags are used as packaging for household waste. If you want to reduce the amount of plastic bags, you have to give an alternative to this waste management at home. But SFT's assessment is that this is currently the best option. What is banned in other countries is largely different types of plastic bags with completely different harmful effects from those we now use in Norway. We see in some countries that significant results can be achieved in agreements and cooperation with the industry. For example, in March this year the United Kingdom Ministry of the Environment concluded an agreement with six large professional organisations and 22 leading shops to reduce the use of plastic bags by 25 pst. before the end of the year. Shops recently reported to the authorities that they would have achieved that objective by the end of the year. What I see as appropriate in the future is to convene a meeting with the most important professional organisations. It's the four great food chains, and as a gesture to the Christian People's Party, we will also invite the Vinmonopolet to such a meeting. It's from the big food chains and the Vinmonopole plastic bags come mainly, and we'll look at how in cooperation with them we can reduce the unnecessary use of plastic bags, bring down the total volume and offer better alternatives in the form of textiles and other alternatives. I think it is foolish now to reject the idea that the opposition came with, about a fee. Let it be an instrument that we can discuss in the dialogue with the industry. I think that just the fact that we have had a wide debate on bans has stimulated the industry to take faster action than anything else would happen. Not to say anything critical about anyone, but it is normal that nothing stimulates a faster change than a threat of a ban or charge. The practical nature of the charge will be demonstrated by a future dialogue with the industry. In fact, it is already the case that most people pay a price for a plastic bag in Norway, which is higher than the price that has seemed deterrent in a good number of other countries. There is no simple calculation which fee may be dissuasive. The Ministry of the Environment now wants to engage in a dialogue with the major food chains and the Vinmonopolet to see how we can jointly bring this down. Everyone has shown an interest in such dialogue, and many have already had significant measures in this area. In the dialogue, the fee will be one of the issues that may be assessed together with the more positive measures, how they can all provide more opportunities for alternatives other than plastic bags in their range.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1888	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1891	The SFT has carried out a thorough study of this problem and they do not recommend launching public instruments. On that basis, I have a question for the Council of State: can the Council of State decide that it is appropriate for the Government to propose the imposition of a plastic bag tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1896	No, I don't want to deny that there's an opportunity that we'll consider. It must be part of the dialogue with the industry, and we have no concrete plan to do so. In a dialogue with the industry, it would be very foolish to start the dialogue of binding on hands and feet as to which actions might be relevant. First of all, we want a dialogue with the industry on the positive measures, how to better facilitate alternatives, how to make alternatives to plastic bags cheaper, better displayed, more pleasant to use and more prominent in the range. Then a fee will be something that needs to be assessed in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1901	I'm glad we have engaged state councils. I think we need more engaged both state councilmen and politicians, but we hope that the commitment can lead to political change. I think, like the Council of State, that many people in their daily lives want to be part of the great climate change. By being able to do something about the consumption of plastic bags, you can be involved in the great effort. I now understand that the Council of State will have a conversation with the industry, that it is the industry that is going to change and participate in facilitating, so that we can change. He refers to the United Kingdom and the changes they have been able to make there. My question is, does the Council of State think that this is going fast enough in relation to the changes we need to be on the big scale?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1908	At first, I am very pleased that we agree that we need both engaged state councils and not least engaged staging representatives. Together, we can conduct this debate in the future. I think we have a significant problem in people's attitude to climate change. It's because the big emission reductions come up against issues on which the ordinary human being does not have a direct influence. It is primarily influenced by choosing the Christian People's Party and the SV in front of the Advance Party. That's how you can contribute. There are reductions in Melkøya, there are reductions in Mongstad, there are reductions in large industrial plants, and that is the global reductions. It's more limited what you can do in the individual human life. I really just want to call for a debate between government and bigotry and the Big City to look at what action it is possible to do, combining the moral, ethical desire of the individual human being to be allowed to be involved and do something that matters, that what you do, of course, must be right for the climate and have a real meaning.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1915	I very much agree with the Council when he says it's important to mobilize people most. Then it is important that what politicians say they should do is followed up. When you say you want to take measures to reduce the use of plastic bags, you have to do it. When 90 municipalities want to say no to unaddressed advertising by mirroring the current system, it is a bad signal that the government parties in Stortinget say that you are not allowed to do so. People don't understand when they want to take responsibility locally, that they won't be allowed to do it. I didn't criticize the commitment, I criticized the lack of results in the areas the government has said one will deliver results. I have two questions for the Council of State: Does he agree that the signal coming out of this treatment to industry and consumers is that it is a goal to reduce the use of plastic bags? And is what we now hear that the Council of State will do, what we are actually proposing in the proposal, to provide an overview of possible measures to reduce the use of plastic bags? In this case, it's excellent. Then we get our wish fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1922	The general rhetoric between government and opposition we can lay down for another time and focus on the last questions. Yes, we will investigate what alternatives are possible, and engage in a dialogue with the industry about them. And yes, I think the industry is also really interested in this. That's because I think the big businesses, Rema, Rimi, Coop, all of them, are also interested in it. Firstly, they are also people with a genuine desire to contribute positively to the environment, but they are also interested in the more positive image that a greener industry can provide. I just read an overview from Steen & Stroms Director, who reviewed all the measures that Steen & Strom will take to become a better environmental enterprise. If you do everything you say there, it's a very positive example of parts of business that really want to be with us politicians in a great environmental virtue.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1931	The last time the Council of State and I were in a line change, I got credit for my environmental exposure. Then it is nice that SV and the Progress Party once again come together on an important environmental issue – and this time on a question of fees. Several representatives from the government parties have today said that if one uses a shopping network enough times, this is more environmentally friendly than plastic bags. Then the interesting question in this context becomes the Council of State: How many times do you have to use a shopping network before it is more environmentally friendly than a plastic bag?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1938	Let me first say that if someone from the government parties has said this, it's very well said, and that's quite right. But just where that limit goes, I'm not able to say. I think we need to get some physicists or others who can answer that. There is also energy costs associated with creating a shopping network, and they are certainly larger than for making a simple plastic bag. But if the advantage of a trading network of other material comes after two or three times its use, or if it comes after ten or 15 times its use, I am not able to say. But I'd like to get some experts to answer that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1945	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1950	I want to start by asking to be believed that for many years I had an involvement in plastic bags, perhaps most because of commercial interests in Folldal, where there is a large plastic recycling facility. I think the debate has a fundamental aspect in terms of the fact that the plastic bag can also become a symbol. The state council has pointed out that it's the industry that's the key here, and I think he's quite right in it. I have actually asked the industry on a couple of occasions why it is so difficult to recycle plastic in plastic bags. The answer has always been the same, that there are confused plastic bags. It's been the answer from both Coop and one of the other big ones, that it's not good enough. Now, however, new technology has been developed in Norway, so now you get recycled plastic bags without tampering. It was Norföller who launched a new plastic bag in September. You can include it in the dialogue, that it would also be a plus for the four big ones in the industry to use ‘plastic-friendly’ plastic bags, to put it like that. They can also be recycled many times. It was a small contribution on the practical side. I also want to invite the Council of State to Lillestrøm, where they have developed this plastic bag.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1964	This debate has been constructive because the Council of State says in a reply that he wants to explore the real options and present them to the industry. So we've come to what we want, because if the Council of State can also at an appropriate time inform the Government of the results of this dialogue with the industry, we've come to where we want to go, sit down and think creatively to achieve some changes in our plastic bag usage. As the author of the proposal, I believe that the involvement of the Council of State, the commitment of the proposer and this debate have led us to some progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1971	Let me just verify that. Of course, we should like to come back to Stortinget in a suitable form with information about what comes out of the conversation with the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e1976	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 7 and 8 are treated together. [[Footing, see page 1055]] – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2005	I am pleased that the representatives of Storting are concerned about the current and future conditions of the surviving wild breeds, and that Norway has a special responsibility to ensure the sustainable management of the wild breeds. It is also important to carry out continuous restocking where appropriate. In the case of the Tanavas trek, it has been established that the repatriation of salmon pups from the river is very large, while the release of smolt from hatcheries gives experience of little return migration. This means that the construction of smelting plants and the release of smolt in the Tanavas trek, as requested by the proposers through Document No. 8:135 for 2007-2008, is not the most necessary measure. However, active interaction with Finland is essential, as the total salmon in Tana has been too heavily taxed, both in the sea and in the watercourse, with different tools. Sports fishing has also taken place to a large extent. In particular, the tax has been high on the Finnish side. It is therefore very important that the Norwegian authorities have contacted Finland in order to establish a common regulatory framework adapted to the new Norwegian strict regulations on salmon fishing. With this in mind, the majority does not wish to endorse the draft representative in Document No. 8:135 for 2007-2008. With regard to the proposal for a representative in Document No: 8:104 for 2007-2008, where the representatives of the Left wish to draw up a comprehensive action plan for the conservation of the North Atlantic wild species, it is a proposal that should be included in the future. It is important that the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs and the Ministry of Oil and Energy work together today to implement all the important measures outlined by the Stortinget in Innst. S. No 183 for 2006-200 for St.prp. No 32 for 2006-2007 on the protection of the wild species and the completion of national salmon and salmon fjords. I think it's pretty good to read that the entire opposition doesn't think they're worried about the number of wild-axis conservation plans and measures being too low, but the concern is at the level of funding. It doesn't help if you never have that many plans, if the content is not implemented. And we already have a lot of plans on this topic. That's why the majority think it's important to get results from what we've adopted in the past, and the ministry has to notice that we want to keep track of it. It is then reassuring that in his reply to the Committee, the Council of State says that he will ensure that the Storting is kept properly informed about the progress of securing the Norwegian salmon. In particular, it is important that the Storting should be updated on how work is going, and results in the fight against Gyrodactylus salaris, where the red-green government is now spending a great deal on the 2009 budget. Never before has so much money been spent on measures to get rid of this harmful parasite as it is now. The size has previously requested a concession scheme for marine salmon fishing, which will come in 2009 as part of the regulatory process. In this context, it is important to have a good dialogue with the rights holders in the river and in the sea, the Sami interests, recreational fishermen and businesses affected by the new regulations. But the most important thing is to find a regime that is well adapted to the situation of the wild. I think we're doing well, and we're going to target what the Stortinget said in 2007. The parties are not far apart in this matter. The villa must be saved, and therefore the majority wants Document No. 8:104 is annexed to the Protocol for 2007-2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2024	Let me start by saying that my colleague, Fredriksen, will come into Tana and the administration with Finland. The Villaksen is important as a species for Norway and for the North Atlantic. That's why it's a good initiative, because every time the Storting gets the opportunity to discuss the fallacy, it's a sign that we here in this house are taking that challenge seriously. And there are reasons for concern in many areas. I'll come back to that. The villa is a source of recreation and provides hundreds of profitable jobs in Norway. From a scientific point of view, half of all populations of Atlantic wild breeds are found in Norway, which, of course, gives us considerable responsibility for caring for this species. We must aim to preserve as many species as possible, preferably all the remaining populations in Norway. The party of progress is concerned. There are many threats to the wild species: acidification, over-taxation, salmon parasite Gyrodactylus salaris, poorly regulated watercourses, climate change, hybridisation and salmonids, to name the main ones. And the Progress Party is concerned that the 2005 liming budget – when it was big – has been cut by 100 million. SEK, to today's SEK 88 million. kr, which causes acidified watercourses to remain in line for an unnecessary period of time. We are concerned that the tax, especially for sea salmon fishing, is still high despite regulations. Clearly, stricter regulations than one has already done must be introduced. We see that in some areas of Norway there is an increase in taxation from sea salmon fishing. That's not what the Stortinget asked for at the last round. In the case of regulated watercourses, regulation can be both good and bad. I'm very pleased that the majority of the Storting turned the government's attempt to shut down NINA's research station at Ims, which is the most important knowledge environment in terms of the balance between watercourse regulation and salmon. I want to refer to the example of the furunculosis outbreak in Namsen this summer. One of Norway’s main salmon rivers was losing an entire year class of smolt. Had not the eleven been regulated, the North-Trundellag Energieverk could have opened the lock, released cold water in the river and killed the furunkulose within 36 hours. On that occasion, I would like to quote a comment from the Committee. Here the committee must have had a very capable writer. We're pointing at it. ‘when performing concession audits of existing hydroelectric power stations in salmon-bearing watercourses, minimum water flow appropriate to the salmon at different life stages should be required.’ I recommend that the Council of State cut out tomorrow that day, put it in the post and send it to the OED right away, so that the OED immediately implements it that quite obviously a large majority on the Storting wants. With such a regulation, one can, among other things, achieve the freezing of rivers that are currently open in winter, with its consequences for the taxation of wild axes and that the river owners do not dry out in summer; The party to the progress is also concerned about hybridisation due to the absence of farmed salmon. We also have a lot of plans there. We have the Escape Commission for Aquaculture, which the Government has put down, and we have the FHL's Escape Commission. Plans are enough of that. The concern is whether the allocation is large enough. A more stringent laxine regulation called for the Progress Party already in the summer of 2006. It is now in the harvest, but it is not strict enough at all, especially in relation to the period that the melt actually flows out of the river, namely in the spring. Governments have a job to do in relation to their colleagues in the Ministry of Fisheries in relation to a stricter laxine regulation. But it is still such that it is Gyrodactylus salaris that is the greatest danger to Norwegian wild breeds – the only danger to Norwegian wild breeds that has the potential to actually crack large areas of Norwegian wild breeds. It's good to hear and see that the government now says that they've stopped the aluminium treatment and focusses on using the rotenone where you're going to treat it. The Progress Party has said that for two years. It takes time for the Government to follow the Advance Party, but it will be, absolutely. Then I'm disappointed that every harvest in this room we discuss what's going to happen to Driva. The key to finishing Gyro treatment in Norway is driven by the Ministry of the Environment's call for projects. In 2006, projects were to be carried out in 2007, projects were to be carried out in 2008, and now projects are to be carried out in 2009. It may not take four years to schedule shutdown of Drive.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2059	Should the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2062	No, no, no. We have no suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2067	In Case No. Eight?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2070	I'm sorry, President. Of course, we have proposals in case No. 8, and I'll bring up our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2075	The representative Tord Lien has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2078	The representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2081	Norway has a particular responsibility to maintain sustainable management of the North Atlantic wild species. Unfortunately, 45 out of 450 salmon populations have been lost, while 81 populations are at risk of extinction and 13 populations are classified as vulnerable. The Left proposed a comprehensive action plan for the conservation of the North Atlantic wild species, because we believe that we need better coordination and strengthening of the measures already in place today. And we need new measures to prevent the loss of more salmon populations. The fact that the parties to the government do not vote in favour of this proposal is regrettable, because we know what needs to be done to improve the conditions of the North Atlantic wild species – it is about having a political will to implement, coordinate and improve the measures. Fragmented administrative responsibilities have proved to be a major challenge in coordinating the necessary measures and ensuring full management of the wild species, as the Council of State also points out in its letter to the Committee. Measures tend to be put in place when populations are at risk of extinction. Instead of carrying out more preventive work, the management of wild-axes is too much what can be described as fire-fighting. If we are to be able to achieve a viable and strong population of wild species in Norway, measures need to be strengthened to reduce the level of fire-fighting in the administration. Therefore, the Left will have a plan of action to coordinate and strengthen de-occurrence measures in farms, as well as increased appropriations for research on salmon and, in particular, on resistant salmon. The left will start work on the origination of farmed salmon, and the withdrawal of salmon both in rivers and seas needs to be reduced, especially in times of weak smolt vintages. This year’s tightening up of sea salmon fishing has contributed to a rise in salmon in rivers than in the past. It's positive. However, river fishing should also be regulated to a greater extent, as one today has little control over how much salmon is fished. The left calls for a control tool for river fishing, because it is where the life base is formed for future salmon generations. It is positive that the Government is increasing appropriations for the Action Plan to combat Gyrodactylus salaris, and it is positive that the farming industry has contributed to reducing the evacuation of farmed salmon from 618 000 individuals in 2007 to 60000 this year. But still a lot of work is left before the Escape Commission reaches its zero vision. I am also pleased that all the parties, except for the Christian People's Party, will make demands for minimum water supply adapted to salmon in different life stages when concession audits are carried out in existing hydropower plants. In line with what the representative said, Lien, this is a very important comment that I hope will affect OED's work on auditing the concessions. The fact that the Minister for the Environment has called for a joint management of the salmon in the Tanavas Strait is also positive. Many have rightly pointed out the bias between administration on the Norwegian and Finnish sides and that this leads to overfishing of the wild fish population in Tana. It's been almost ten years since the Rieber Mohn Committee came with its NOU investigation "For salmon for everyone can't do?". I would like to point out the same thing as this sample stated: the management of salmon is complicated, unwieldy and has been characterised by a lack of common understanding and limited cooperation between the sectors. The life of salmon affects a number of important social interests, and therefore it is not incomprehensible that management is complicated. However, preventing the implementation of measures, making decisions difficult and creating unclear responsibilities and powers is not acceptable. Unfortunately, there is a gap between political objectives on the one hand and today's actual situation on the other. The legislation allows, but does not require the salmon to be taken into account. That should make Stortinget take the consequences. This would be done by joining in the Left's proposal for an action plan on the conservation of wild fauna and flora.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2104	Villaksen is a species of Norway that has a special responsibility for it. Norway originally had 446 wild salmon populations. One third of them are now either lost, threatened by extinction or considered very vulnerable. We can't afford to lose any more of the wild breeds that we have a responsibility, even internationally, to manage. The villa means a lot to Norway. It is one of our most important natural values and has for centuries also been an important part of our cultural tradition, our nutritional basis and our quality of life. Many districts also have significant incomes from tourism and other activities related to salmon fishing. The opportunities offered by the wild species for sport fishing, recreation and nature experience are important to a large number of people in the countries around the North Atlantic. In addition, wild salmon populations are an important genetic resource for salmon farming. Norwegian wild breeds are threatened by a wide range of factors, including: Gyrodactylus salaris, acidification, power build-up, genetic incorporation of escaped farmed salmon and some large concentrations of salmonids. Inner. S. No 183 for 2006–2007, on the protection of the wild species and the completion of national salmon watercourses and salmon fjords, addresses all these challenges, and there was broad support for the measures when they were voted over in this room. As then Environment Minister Helen Bjørnøy said: ‘I am pleased to note that all the parties in this Chamber are good friends of the wild species and that there is a broad consensus on a strengthened policy for the protection of this species, for which Norway has a special responsibility.’ [[...]] The paradox is that the wild beast is under constant pressure. The villa is fascinating. It grows up in a river and comes back and spawns in the same river. But it also means that it encounters threats and obstacles both in the watercourses, in coastal areas and in the sea. The sum of human activities is just too much for too many of our salmon populations. Historically, acid rain has helped to eradicate 25 of these strains. That is why we are still spending a lot of money on the Ministry of the Environment's budget on liming. Hydropower expansion has also caused us to lose salmon stocks. That is why we are asking that minimum water supply be required that is adapted to salmon in different life stages, all except the Christian People's Party agree on that. Gyro is one of the big threats to the wilderness today. Next year we will therefore increase the use of money for the preservation of wild breeds by about 21.5 million. kr. The budget increase will mainly be towards the control of the Gyrodactylus salaris parasite. This gives room for, among other things. to start implementing measures to clear the parasite in Wefsna. The weavers were before Gyro established in 1978, one of the country's best salmon rivers. The aim is to re-establish the wild axis in the long term in the watercourses, with the importance it will have for natural and economic development throughout the region. Today, the Ministry of the Environment has approved the main lines of the draft new action plan on salmon parasite. In 2008, about 45 million were used. kr for the control work, and the 2009 allocation will be substantially increased. The new action plan implies that rotenone treatment will be the main chemical method for getting rid of the parasite in time, while the use of aluminium in combination with rotenone will be further developed. The use of fish barriers shall also be further developed, including: with assessment of electrical barriers. Furthermore, greater emphasis will be placed on the preparedness and strengthening of the knowledge base. In today's press release, Environment Minister Erik Solheim said that we can aim to complete the Steinkärvassträg in 2009, carry out an infectious treatment in Lærdal, complete the design and applications for the construction of a barrier in Driva and carry out the necessary preparations for chemical treatment in Vefsna. The tightening of the fishing rules before the season 2008 has given more spawning fish in rivers. Especially in rivers where there has already been a small distance between spawning stock and spawning stock, it seems that spawning stock targets will be achieved, according to the Directorate of Nature Management. Also in rivers with weak populations, regulations have contributed positively, but many of these are unlikely to reach the spawning stock target this year either. DN reports that the trend of low visibility of small salmon appears to continue in many regions, and that we have to expect rivers with little element of large salmon where spawning stock targets are not achieved this year. Reduced salmon fishing, especially in coastal areas where stocks from large parts of the country are being fished, is expected to increase the amount of gypsum in watercourses with weak populations. Sea and river regulations seem to contribute almost the same amount, according to the directorate. So the regulations in the sea have given more fish in the rivers, and the regulations in the rivers have ensured that more salmon have survived until spawning. However, poor understanding of small salmon still gives reason to fear that salmon survives poorly during emigration and in the growing up areas of the sea. Famous farmed salmon and salmonids are other threats to the wild species. The most serious thing is the genetic contamination. When the Committee considered the issue of the protection of the wild species and of its own salmon waters, it was noted that, without a significant reduction in the number of escaped salmon from the farming industry, new and more stringent instruments had to be introduced. This problem must be followed closely by the authorities. I'm assuming that too. It is a challenge to achieve good administrative coordination. That work is demanding, as the Minister for the Environment has pointed out, but we also expect that what is done is done further, and we know that it does.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2129	I'm going straight to the point. When we have not supported the idea of presenting a new comprehensive management plan, it is quite simple that we believe that that management plan already exists in the form of the Government's proposal on the protection of the wild species, which provides a good basis for future salmon management, and that therefore there is no need for a new action plan now. This does not mean that it is not good and useful that the matter is addressed here, but confirms the absolute cross-political view we have of doing mass for the wild. It's one of the relatively few environmental issues where the commitment of the Progress Party is the same as that of everyone else, and it's good. It shows that all the batches are behind doing significantly more than what we have done in Norway to protect the wild species. There's a high level of ambition below what everyone says. I would therefore like to thank both the proposers and the committee for bringing this up. It's just the future that can show if what we're doing now is enough. That's impossible for us to say. What's absolutely certain is that we're doing a lot more now than we've done so far. This year's budget is a record budget for the wild game, without money itself being the only rewarding thing. It's a much bigger budget than before. We will now initiate the rotenon treatment in the tissue, for which No Marte Thorkildsen was in, and for which Tord Lien has been an avid champion for a very long time. We will initiate measures in Steinkjer, in Driva, in Lærdal and several of the watercourses. Aluminium is a more gentle form, and we don't want to give it up as a future solution, but we believe that rotenon is what will give the immediate effect. It's urgent to do that, and that's why we're now going to be based on rotenone as the principal active ingredient. In addition, I am pleased that the Committee emphasises the responsibilities of the power producers and the importance of minimum irrigation in the salmon rivers as other significant measures. Future policies in this area will also impose greater demands on the sharing of responsibilities and burdens for the farming industry. Although escape is significantly reduced in relation to what it was for some time ago, the escape problem is still large, and a significant threat to the wild species. We are demanding power producers and fishing interests must be faced with delays in the years to come. Then I would like to point out that the Government has also implemented the strictest regulations on marine salmon fishing that we have seen now. With regard to the specific question of Tana, the reason why we cannot recommend the construction of hatchery and melting plants in Tana is simply professional advice. Had we thought that this would work and be a significant measure, I think the Stortinget would gather about it. But there is no evidence to suggest that it will have the effect that the proposers and we all want. What we believe, on the other hand, is a dialogue with Finland on the need for tightening up salmon fishing in Tanaelva. All actors on the Norwegian side agree that this is necessary. We have so far received no clear signals from our Finnish colleagues. But that doesn't mean we want to give up that dialogue. We try to press and make contact and see if we can move on. Norway and Finland agree to set up a joint expert group to improve knowledge of the Tanalax through research and monitoring and to provide a better basis for future actions. This group will be set up early in 2009. In addition, we have created a sample to propose local fisheries management in line with the Finnland Act. The aim is to establish a local fisheries management board, which will contribute to better protection and more sustainable fishing. Tana is the world's most productive salmon watercourses, and thus a unique natural value. It is great that the proposers and the Committee contribute to the attention of Tana on the very special challenges. And, once again, we believe the key is better cooperation with Finland to get action in Tana.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2150	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2153	We agree that the government has moved in the right direction in a wide range of fields regarding the Gyro control. But we're going to get back to this point with Driva. Everyone knows, regardless of who controls this country, that the final treatment of Driva is going to be the last major Gyro project. Every year it is postponed, we are postponing the end of the Gyro control in Norway – an environmental problem that we can declare the end at once in the relatively near future. Then it's a shame, I think, that it's being exposed and exposed and exposed all the time. Is it the case that the Council of State can invite Driva to open — or close — during 2009?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2158	In the Energy and Environment Committee's hearing on 6 November this year, several heavy hearing bodies reiterate their scepticism at the Government's commitment to wild game, and consider it to be too weak. Norway has a special responsibility for maintaining the North Atlantic wild species. The villa is threatened, and we have to deliver solutions. Therefore, the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left are promoting a comprehensive action plan for the preservation of the wild species. I refer only to the previous speeches, which I believe had a good point, but a crazy conclusion when the Progress Party is not on the proposal. I am promoting the proposal of these three parties. I have no reason to delay the proposal, unlike the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2167	I can't give a clear answer over the table to the very specific question about Driva, but I promise to report back to the representative Lien exactly when, how and what we can do. Otherwise, I would like to congratulate the representative because his commitment to rotenon has been a repeat in the Storting for a long time. It's a purely professional question for me. I have no premise whatsoever to assess whether rotenon or aluminium is the most effective, but what we hear from our professionals is that more and more people gather about the view that the representative Lien has headed for, that rotenon is the most effective, and that we should use it more in the foreseeable future. And then we'll see if aluminum over time can produce better results. But right now it's the Rotenon that stands at the door, and there we have to give the representative Lien right in his long-term commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2174	I want to draw attention to two aspects. One concerns measures to get an overview of the extent of fish in rivers. Does the Council agree that it is important to do so? If there is to be a few offensives here, there has to be a balance between the measures that one has for sea fish and estuary, so that it gives legitimacy to the actions that one has against a group. The second thing to draw attention to is the comment behind a large majority on power concessions — concessions given at a different time and having different standards in relation to environmental requirements, etc. Does the Council of State agree with the main assessment that, when assessing these concessions, it is not only a mere extension of existing concessions, but one has to go in and look at adaptations that allow a greater degree of consideration to the environment and also facilitate the wild axis, as described in this note?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2181	I can confirm both points positively. It is clear that knowledge is always essential to make the right decisions. The more knowledge we have about the actual state of the salmon strains in all rivers and how many they are, and what the health condition is, the better we are to make the right decisions ahead. So we'll do what we can to get the most knowledge of it. I have noticed that a broad majority in Stortinget is behind the comment on the importance of power concessions and how to handle the salmon strain in this regard. The government is always the humble servant of the Greatness, and will, of course, follow up on this. I think it's a very important and positive observation, which of course we'll follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2190	In the summer, State Secretary Heidi Sørensen was strongly involved in the media with chronicles against investing in hydropower. Hydropower had nothing to do with environmental protection, and it was a very big distinction in the way she argued. As the summer of 2008 broke out furunculosis in Namsen, we saw that having regulated watercourses actually also has some positive aspects in limiting unfortunate environmental sites. This outbreak could have wiped out all spawning fish in the river, but was stopped in 36 hours as a result of a cold discharge of water into the river by the North-Trandelag Electricity plant – NTE. Other measures could not have stopped this outbreak. I don't argue here that we're going to expand all the rivers, but I'm just asking for a confirmation from the council that he sees that well regulated, well managed, hydropower development in some rivers can actually have positive sides if you regulate it rationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2199	I am not familiar with what Heidi Sørensen referred to, but I do not know any people who are either for all hydropower or against all hydropower – in that case it must be that the Progress Party is to expand every river. All of us have a nuanced view that Norway has developed a lot of hydropower. Much of it has been good and correct and has contributed to Norway’s economic progress. I also believe that large parts of the rest of the world need more hydropower. It's a scandal that there hasn't been a single hydroelectric plant built in Africa in the last ten years. There are huge hydropower potentials in some of the poorest countries, but we want to limit new, major expansions in Norway – here we have a comprehensive plan. The time for that is in my opinion above, we don't need new large hydroelectric expansions. I assume that is what Heidi Sørensen has taken a decision on. Then you can think of small power and general adaptations of the power plants that are, and of course it's like everything else in human life, benefits and disadvantages, and in some cases it can certainly be beneficial for the salmon management related to hydropower development – it's not hard to agree with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2208	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is over and the meeting is cancelled.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2251	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2254	It is a fact that, despite a number of long-term measures, measures that have considerably reduced fishing opportunities, the decline in salmon stocks has been noticeable over time. Today, the tanava stretch has more than 40 salmon strains and has stood for 40-45 pst. of the total catch of wild salmon in Norway after the war. Tanaelva alone has approx. 10 pst. of all Norwegian wildax strains and will thus be an excellent place for the establishment of a local hatchery and the release of smolt based on local salmon genes. The fact that there are annual variations in fishing is natural, but regardless of variations, salmon stocks have decreased. The cause of a decline over time is complex. There is little doubt that if Norway's obligations were to be met in relation to wild fish stocks, a solution with a smolt and hatchery plant for Tanaelva would be the right way to go. In addition to strengthening wild breeds in Tana, there would be a good contribution to the local communities of Tana and Karasjok and Utsjok municipality in Finland with a river with a rich salmon population that would ensure good local conditions and growth in tourism industries. All national and international experience suggests that hatcheries based on local strains have become a success, regardless of the fact that researchers can demonstrate that a little more melt that has naturally grown up in a river survives than smolt from a hatchery. In Norway, reference can be made to Altaelva, which climbs higher and higher each year in the case of watercourses with the largest catch, and Altaelva has melting plants — or there may be the release of brown trout from melting plants in Pasvikelva. In Canada this has been introduced a long time ago, and it has been an unconditional success. The protection of wild breeds is important, but so far this has not protected our salmon strains in a good enough way. It is high time that, in addition to conservation measures, proactive measures were put in place to strengthen the remaining wild breeds. Both Norway and Finland have a binding responsibility. It is therefore gratifying that the Ministry of the Environment has initiated negotiations with Finland on a common fisheries legislation in Tanaelva, an initiative triggered by this proposal for a representative. That the government wants to use a fish association's opinion to disclaim its responsibility for the wild fish population in Tana, is sad. It's a shame you don't look at all the places where melting plants have been a success either. That the proposal as such involves new things in terms of management for Tanaelva is correct. And as we all know, things take time, and for some people things take a little longer than for others.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2274	The villa is a jewel in our nature, and it must and must also be in the future. It is also a very important resource, both for the local population along the coast and for residents of the country. It is particularly important for the population of Finnmark, as Finnmark is the world's most important region of Atlantic wild species. Salmon fisheries in Tanaelva have always been very important both in the river-samian culture of the Tana Valley, for the local population associated with the entire long-distance Tana River and for the sea-samian salmon fishermen along the coast. That's why it's very important for us to be able to take care of the wild, so that our children and grandchildren can operate different kinds of salmon fishing in the future. There are various reasons why the wild axis is threatened. On the Finnish side of Tanaelva there is already approx. 400 cabins located very close to the river, which are largely used by visiting Finnish salmon tourists. There are now large-scale plans for the construction of 400 new leisure homes along this good salmon eel. On the Norwegian side, we have a very restrictive line in terms of cabin construction along the river. In other words, in our two neighbouring countries, we have different laws and rules on cabin construction along a common border. This concerns the local population on the Norwegian side of the Tana Valley, and I am also worried about it. This alarm message I brought up with Secretary of State Jonas Gahr Støre in August of this year, and I repeat it here today. I hope that both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for the Environment will take this matter very seriously and get involved. It is very important to have close cooperation with the Finnish authorities on the regulation of salmon fishing in the Tanavas Strait. We have a common wildfish population to manage in this border river. I am therefore a cautious optimist when an overall energy and environmental committee writes that it would be right to point out that active interaction with Finland should be developed, so that the withdrawal of fish adapted to the stock in the watercourse is regulated. In June this year, the Ministry of the Environment appointed a sample to investigate local fisheries management in the Tanava stretch. The selection shall include, inter alia: assess the need for changes to the legislation and conventions with Finland and, where appropriate, propose such changes. I hope that this sample will reach an agreement with Finland, so that we will have a sustainable management of the wild axis in the Tanava stretch. As others have mentioned before today, the management of Norwegian wild breeds is very complicated, but complexity must not get in the way because we are able to put in place a comprehensive management of the North Atlantic wild species. We in this country have a particularly high responsibility to ensure sustainable management of salmon. The responsibilities and causes of the risk of wild game populations are divided into several sectors. It is therefore necessary to strengthen cooperation in salmon management and to widen the scope of the measures. [[The President clubs.]] That is why I am very disappointed that not all parties can support our proposal here today on a comprehensive action plan for the conservation of wild fauna and flora. [[The President Clubs Again]] [[The President clubs again.]] What we need most now is coordination of the management of the wild game, and it's urgent.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2289	The President is in Christmas mode.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2292	President, it could be a good idea. The Council of State assumed that the Progress Party will expand all rivers. That's not true. On the other hand, the Progress Party believes that new technologies and opportunities to take on stronger and wider environmental concerns than in the past may make it reasonable to look at some rivers again. Then I must commend the committee leader, Kvassheim, for what he said about salmonmus. Breeding has come a long way and works very well with the issue of escape, but has not reached the same level with regard to salmonnus, which remains a major challenge for the wild. There the industry obviously has a responsibility that I think it is very conscious of and works with, but also the government has a responsibility to contribute. We can contribute through regulations that impose coordinated leaching, we can contribute to research on control agents, and we can have a goal to produce a salmon that is immune to leaches. I took the floor again to answer the question of why the Progress Party does not support the proposal. In my first post, I pointed to the huge amount of plans that we actually have, and instead tried to point out the need to implement the plans we have, before we use more energy to make new plans. Because even if we wanted it not to be, the Ministry of the Environment and the Directorate of Nature Management have a limited amount of both budgetary resources and what can be called brain power. Then the Progress Party does not believe that what is needed to save the wild species is to increase the amount of paper in the Ministry of the Environment and the Directorate of Nature Management, but that it is to focus more on rotenon, liming, escape, salmon, etc. etc. So I hope that the Council of State, when he has now saved a few million kroner and some hours of work not to create a comprehensive management plan, will be able to find enough funds to put a barrier in Driva in 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2305	In an incubation, the Christian People's Party has fallen out of a note in today's setting. That is why I am speaking. It is the remark that when performing concession audits in existing hydroelectric power stations in leaching watercourses, minimum watercourses adapted to the salmon at different life stages should be required. This is a note that the Christian People's Party fully supports, and we also agree with the rest of this remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2310	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 7 and 8. Case No. 9 [18:12:07] [[Fooding, see page 1056]] Setting up of the Energy and Environment Committee on proposals for representatives from the Landfill representatives Line Henriette Holten Hemdal, Dagrun Eriksen and Ola T. Loans for stronger financial incentives to strengthen the maintenance of peaceful private buildings (Innst. S. No 65 [[2007-2008]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2323	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2332	In Norway, there are about 4 500 buildings were peaced by decision of the Cultural Memory Act. Of these, approx. 60 pst. in private ownership. Owners of private cultural memories are making a tremendous effort to care for our common cultural heritage. Unfortunately, too many owners of private cultural memories feel that there is an unreasonable disparity between the obligations imposed on them by a conservation decision and their rights by law. Owners may experience being disqualified, even in owner-occupied dwellings. The maintenance of peaceful buildings is expensive. Nevertheless, it is incredible how much work is done in private to preserve a very important part of the Norwegian cultural heritage, namely Norwegian peaceful buildings. For the Right, it's completely unreasonable. The stakeholder organisation for owners of decision-making private properties says that owners pay far more in taxes and taxes on the maintenance and restoration of protected buildings than they receive in public support. It is also regrettable that the grants premium the ship's perch method once the maturity has reached a high level. This is a more expensive way to preserve cultural memories than through regular maintenance. It also means in many cases the destruction of cultural memories, and often there are irreplaceable cultural memories. It is therefore an overall opposition that wants other and significantly better framework conditions for all those who own a peaceful building. It is in everyone's interest that the public is involved in motivating both owners and users to take care of and use our cultural heritage. Therefore, protection through use is a central tool. In addition, owners of cultural memories who have reduced their value for use as a result of protection have to be compensated for financially – in full, I would like to add. Right wants to use grant and tax incentives to take care of all our saved buildings, including those in private ownership. It is a pity that not the Government, even in the Cultural Memory Year, is proposing measures to improve the situation. It can only be due to a lack of political will. In addition, it is important to support the amazing work of a number of organisations. Let me mention in particular the Norwegian Cultural Heritage, the Ancient Memory Association and the Peace Association. These organizations deserve far more than beautiful words.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2351	Norway's cultural heritage is changing. More and more older buildings leave their original use in line with new business development and new housing patterns. Both industrial and private buildings stand as empty shells. Who is responsible, and is use and protection the best solution? Fortunately, peaceful buildings are protected by the Cultural Memory Act, and in this regard we have said, through St.meld. No 16 for 2004–2005, Life with cultural memories, and the suspension thereof, that by 2020, protected buildings have reached the normal standard of maintenance. We know that 2,700 of the 4,500 were saved buildings, i.e. approx. 60 pst., is privately owned, and many of the private owners live in the buildings. These owners are a major resource in the management of cultural heritage so that cultural historical values are not lost. That is, the private owners operate within the use and protection system. This year, an important effort has been made to identify the state of the protected buildings, and this report will provide the basis for priorities for action. This program, called the "Privately Owned Peaced Cultural Memory" Programme, has been a top priority for the Government. It is not that cultural memory protection is not high on the agenda of the red-green government. The whole opposition believes that there are no incentives in the form of measures by this government that will help the individual private owner to maintain its own peaceful buildings. I disagree with that. In addition to the conservation programme, budgets have increased by 70 pst since 2005, from 152 million. NOK 258 million. kr, and the grants from the Culture Memory Fund have increased from 13 million. NOK 43 million. kr. This suggests that conditions for private owners have also improved. Funds may be applied for from both the Riksantikvaren and the Kulturmemorefondet. We know that 1/3 of the fund's returns are to be used for peaceful cultural memories. This is going to be 14.5 million. kr for 2009. I expect most of the 14.5 million. kr will go to peaceful private property buildings. It would be useful for everyone if the application process could become somewhat simpler. I hope that something can be done about this from the Riksantik product. In addition, the Government has not proposed changes to the tax system in respect of the maintenance of saved buildings. We should not forget that before 1 January 2005, private owners of sheltered dwellings and recreational dwellings had the opportunity to deduct from the tax system by choosing the accounting equation rather than the percentage of additional costs of owning and maintaining protected buildings. This special rule was removed during the Bondevik II regime, when taxes on owner-occupiers were abolished – cf. Ot. pp. No 1 for 2004–2005. Then the majority, all except the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre, considered that there was no longer any basis for a provision on accounting equation as an optional alternative to a diabolical taxation. Perhaps it was not a particularly wise decision in relation to the owners of peaceful buildings. The government has designated 2009 as a cultural memorial. Here we expect a lot of activity around the country. It is positive that this is a cooperation between the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of the Church, so that the value of interaction between culture in general and cultural memory protection can be better seen. The Cultural Protection Association is primarily responsible for implementation, and everyone can participate here.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2369	I'll try to draw up three moments. But I remind you that what we're talking about here is approx. 2 500 buildings and, in part, substantial voluntary efforts underpinning the fact that those buildings are still protected. We're not going to forget that. Nor should we forget that a small effort from the state generates significant extra voluntary efforts, so that one penny spent on this gives back much, much more than a penny. One thing is that increased support to the private owners of decision-making buildings is important. It's quite obvious. We also see this as an indication that the majority believes so. But I think it might be even more important, and at least less bureaucratic, to look at schemes such as exemption from VAT and other taxes, which should make the restoration and maintenance of decision-making buildings get a lower extra cost – for that is what we are talking about here – vis-à-vis the other buildings. And so it's like there's a lot of talk about protection through use. In areas protected by the law on nature protection, I feel that we have come a while later. Of course, we'll get back to that in the budget debate on Monday, but you've moved in the right direction. But then, in my opinion, it is not as easy to do this for buildings that are the decision-making protection, especially for buildings that are the decision-making protection in the major Norwegian cities. I can draw up in particular Bergen and Oslo, where much can be said that protection through use is not the line that the countyman has laid down on. There, I think many of those who own cultural memories perceive that the state is not a co-player, but a counter-player. Because it is quite clear that protection through the use of these buildings can also provide revenues through commercial activities from these buildings, which will also provide more money to maintain them. Now that we have this debate, I would like to encourage the Council of State to consider whether it is possible to send some signals that protection through use is also important in urban areas, etc. in the major cities of Norway, farms which, in some cases in practice, are completely impossible to use for commercial activities due to very strict regulation by the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2380	Owners of peaceful buildings do a great job of caring for our cultural memories. The owners of the peaceful buildings feel that they have an obligation to safeguard cultural values for society, but the law gives the owners few rights, as we have heard. Many experience this as an unfairness, that there is an unreasonable disparity between the obligations imposed on the owners in respect of the peace decision and the rights they have under that law. The situation today is that owners pay far more in taxes and taxes on the obligation to maintain protected buildings than they receive in public aid. In addition, the grants are designed to promote shippertacks, and we know that shippertacks are a more expensive way to preserve cultural memories, and that shippertacks can also lead to the destruction of cultural memories. Since the change in housing tax in the 2005 government budget, there have been no public incentives for the maintenance of private-owned saved buildings. The maintenance of peaceful buildings has also been demonstrated to be significantly reduced following this amendment. This was a general change that led to completely different framework conditions for peaceful buildings. And that's precisely to look at these types of buildings that we have now challenged the Government through this representative proposal, but also through other proposals. The Christian People's Party believes that the work of peace should build up under the motivation of the owners to take care of and use the cultural heritage. State instruments must be developed in order to enable owners to maintain their own cultural memories through use. The introduction of tax deductions on the costs of mandatory maintenance of rescued buildings could release funds for additional maintenance. The result will then be more maintenance. VAT compensation will have much of the same effect, by reducing costs and thus improving maintenance. In its reply to the Committee of 10 June 2009, the Council of State asks the Committee to await the 2009 State Budget. We have waited for it, and now the budget has arrived. But the government does not propose any improvement in the situation of private saved buildings in the state budget. There are no changes in the cost management of maintenance on rescued houses. The VAT question is exposed and the budget lines of the Riksantikvarn relevant to peaceful buildings have not been proposed to be increased. We know that 1 pst. Norway’s cultural memories disappear every year. It's not long until we write 2009 and the Cultural Memory Year. It would be a golden opportunity together to reverse this trend. The challenge is whether the Government also wants to be part of it. With this I address the proposal that the Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party stand together.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2399	The representative Line Henriette Holten Hemdal has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2402	Our cultural heritage is an irreplaceable source of insight, identity, experience and nutrition. The government is proposing a strong increase in cultural memory and environment for the coming years. We have a responsibility to keep track of the human beings who once lived and worked in our country, for future generations. The fires in Bergen in the fall remind us of how important it is to secure traces from past times. Many of the maturities occur over time and do not get looked up in national media, but it is no less important for that reason. It is therefore important to increase efforts in this area. Cultural memory and the cultural environment can well be referred to as a budget winner in the 2009 draft state budget, with a budget envelope of almost 648 million in total. kr. As you know, the Government has designated 2009 as the cultural memory year. That's set of 10 million. kr for this purpose next year. The government wants to increase Norwegian Cultural Memory Fund. The fund's size will therefore be SEK 1.2 billion. The return from the fund for the coming year will be 43.7 million. kr, and these are instruments to stimulate additional conservation efforts. Since 2005, cultural memory has increased by 70 pst., from 152 million. NOK 258 million. kr. As of 2005, the annual grants from the Kulturmädefondet increased from 13 million. NOK 43 million. kr. In Norway it is peaced approx. 4 500 buildings through cultural monuments. About 60 pst. of which are privately owned. The funds can go both to peace and not to preserve cultural and cultural heritage. The conservation programme for private-owned peaced cultural memory has been a priority during this major period. This programme provides a good overview of the need for maintenance. 60 pst. The state-registered state-registered state-of-the-art of the private-owned buildings is therefore distributed where there is the greatest need and the best effect. Owners and volunteers take a great responsibility and make an invaluable effort to take care of peaceful buildings. The centre part is occupied by the owners being able to use the buildings rationally. Often, the best protection – to which many have come – is provided through an active use. It also applies to cultural memory. The need for the country to secure cultural memory is great, and highlighted in this area is not enough to meet all needs. But we're doing well, and we're going to keep focusing on this work in the future. We must continue to work to find good solutions that inspire the many who are making an effort in an important area of the community. The central party's ideology is based on a thought that we should leave our society to our descendants in at least as good a state as we took over. In our view, this responsibility also means that those who come after us should be able to experience traces from those who have gone before us. Then it's our job to secure one of these tracks.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2423	60 pst. of the 4,500 buildings which are protected by decisions under the Cultural Memory Act are privately owned. If we are to succeed in caring for this important part of our cultural heritage, there is a need to better facilitate the maintenance of peaceful private buildings. Today – as several speakers have pointed out – there is an unreasonable disparity between the obligations imposed on these owners by means of conservation decisions and the rights they have under the law. Maintenance of rescued private-owned buildings may incur significant financial costs. As mentioned today, there are many examples of restoration projects where the owner pays much more in taxes and taxes than he receives in financial support. The incentive schemes, as has also been mentioned, are designed to stimulate shippers rather than continuous maintenance. It is important to obtain schemes that provide stronger economic incentives, including VAT or tax deductions, loan schemes, etc., which can help to improve the environment for these private owners. This must be in addition to direct support. In its reply to the Committee attached to the Committee's proceedings on this proposal, the Council of State refers to the forthcoming State budget. Those who thought that the owners of peaceful private buildings had something good to expect were disappointed. There is nothing in the budget that improves the situation of owners of such buildings. No changes have been proposed to the cost-management of maintenance on peaceful houses, the value-added issue has been deferred and the relevant items of the Riksantikvarn budget have not been increased. The government seems to think we have a good time in this area. We don't. There is an urgent need for action. That is why the Left is involved in the proposal where a request from the Government presents a case in relation to the revised budget for 2009. I also want to show that it has been the condition that the Culture Memory Fund should be increased to NOK 1.4 billion in 2009. It was the escalation plan that was laid down. That goal does not reach the Government. That is why the Left has invested 200 million in its alternative budget. kr in this fund, so that it is equal to the objective and provided for.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2438	Let me start with the last claim that several speakers from the opposition have been involved, the idea that nothing has been said in this budget that helps owners of private buildings. I would just recommend these members of the opposition to draw up the Bondevik government's budget in the same areas and put them on one side of the desk and the red-green government's budget on the other side, and then compare the figures in the two areas. Then I think that from that calculation it will be very quick to conclude that this is the best budget ever made available in the cultural memory area in Norway. It's not like what's happening in the public domain is detached from what's happening in the private sector. For example, I was in Ålesund a month ago in a home where a private owner – like Skovholt Gitmark and several others have been in – has made a completely phenomenal effort, taken over this house, put it up, made a huge effort to get it into it. It's just to take off his hat for what he had done. They said that when there had been a protective decision on the house, they had been very skeptical. Now they were very pleased, and it was due to the fact that there had been close cooperation with the Riksantik product, with the county antique product, with the municipality of Ålesund – i.e. with a number of public authorities, who had not taken over control, but who had contributed to the process of caring for this private house. So the funds made available in public budgets are not funds to be used only in public budgets. Of course, they should also be used to assist private owners. I dare to argue that direct aid is a significantly more effective instrument than general VAT exemption schemes, etc., which I am almost sure will not be proposed by any civil government in Norway in the years to come, because we are all aware of the huge problems of demarcation that lie there at the moment when we are beginning to deal with those types of schemes. Don't do that. We share the belief that caring for cultural memories is very important, and that private owners are very central to it. Most protected properties in Norway are privately owned. Many owners make a great effort to take care of them. It is also important to establish the principle that maintenance of the property is the responsibility of the owner so that it does not endanger its environment and that cultural historical values are not lost. The private heritage conservation programme presented includes 2,700 protected buildings. We have had a lot of pressure to implement this, and this effort has helped to reverse what was a negative trend when it came to the state of maintenance of peaceful buildings. Although the vast majority of people living in peaceful buildings make an effort, we also have examples of the opposite. That's why I went to Bergen and gave Højre's mayor, Monica Mæland, an instrument that local politicians in Bergen can use if they want to. It's going into private buildings that are peaceful, and, where the owners don't do anything about it, but on the contrary let them stand and rot, at the expense of the owners. It is an instrument that of course should not be abused, but that can be used in extreme cases of decay, and as it was very great pleasure to get in Bergen, as I registered it. I would also like to say that when there is a crisis package in January/February, which Stortinget will then have a rich opportunity to discuss, it is obvious that the area of cultural memory refurbishment will be a possible theme. Everyone understands that such a package will include tasks for the construction sector, and a possible theme in which cultural memories will be refurbished. The total amount of grants from the Riksantikvaren and Kulturmärefonden for privately owned saved buildings will be increased from 10 to 14 million. kr in 2009 because the allocation of the Cultural Memory Fund to peaceful buildings is increasing. If we can put the party-political rhetoric a little bit aside, I feel that this is an area where there is considerable consensus, where we are about to do more. I also agree with the view that more people have had, that protection through use in most cases makes sense. There are exceptions to all the main rules, but of course there are very many peaceful buildings that will only stand and fall due if they are not used. It often requires adjustments, where the Riksantikwaren and other professional bodies have to go in and see what it is possible to do and what it is not possible to do, but it is a long-term, positive use, with great love for the buildings in which you live, which will provide the best lasting protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2457	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2460	The instruments that the opposition points to in its proposal today are instruments that could be used on all of the 2,500 buildings it is talking about. They will also be able to be used without being dependent on the inclusion of some bureaucrat in some state agency. It can be done with marginal bureaucracy. As far as I can see, what we're suggesting, marginally, about any, fiscal effect at all. Then I wonder if the Council of State can explain to me – because the majority of the committee does not do so – why the Government rejects, on a principle basis, what the opposition is proposing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2467	Cultural memories are not the only good purpose of Norwegian society. It's a bunch of good, positive purposes that we all in this room will normally share, but that we haven't given, for example. VAT exemptions. It's because a VAT system with an infinity of exceptions, compensation schemes, etc. to the seventh and last will be very unmanageable. We would also end up with a significant criticism from the Progress Party of injustices, injustices, etc. Therefore, to date, all governments in Norway – not least all finance ministers, regardless of the party from which they came – have been quite determined that we should maintain the VAT system as a main system and not start up all kinds of derogations. Then there are the other elements of the proposals that are coming, which we would like to look at and come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2474	As I pointed out in my speech, the Council of State in its reply to the Committee on 10 June wrote the following: ‘However, in the case of issues of stronger economic incentives to strengthen the maintenance of peaceful buildings, I have to ask the Committee to await the 2009 state budget’. We have waited and the budget has arrived. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State to show which financial incentives the Government has put in place for this group of buildings we are now talking about. My second question to the Council of State: In its statement, the Council of State says that direct support for this type of building is more accurate. Why does the Government not deliver as there has been an overall increase in the cultural memory fund, that in 2009 it would be SEK 1.4 billion and thus be a more accurate measure, as the Council of State itself put it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2486	I can essentially just repeat what I said instead. This is the sovereign best budget any government has ever provided for the protection of cultural memories in the whole of Norway's history. I think that's generally accepted by most people. It's like everything else not perfect. I'm sure it'll get better. My view is that we have to escalate this in the years to come, but it is the best budget that has ever been provided. We should be happy about that. It's not just a budget for the public. The Riksantikvar and the public protection authorities are not only engaged in public-owned cultural memories. They also operate with private cultural memories. So we have the best budget ever, and we should get together over it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2492	The Council of State says that this is the best budget ever for cultural memories. It was just to be lacking that no more money was spent in this area than you did three years ago. This applies in almost all areas. It is even easier to make progress when you have had three cuts of rest in this area in the previous year's budget of this government. If you stand still long enough and then you start walking, there will be a change in progress. What is a fact is that the Bondevik II government made an important grip, among other things. with the Cultural Memory Fund, and it was decided that it would amount to DKK 1.4 billion. It is not the Council of State able to deliver. In response to the Committee on Taxes and Taxes, the Council of State says that it waits and sees. Now the clarification is okay, there will be no changes in VAT. It's going to be a bad news for those who own these buildings. My question is, is it as good and straightforward a clarification to get in terms of tax incentives for these owners? Is the government and the state council open to make a move there, or is there cash no at that point as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2503	I will never reject any possibilities – that’s the stupidest thing you do – so let’s definitely look at what can be possible to do in the future. But the main thing we believe in is direct support for what you want to achieve, because it almost always turns out to cost a lot less. There is much more cultural memory protection out of the money if you give direct support than if you create relatively broad incentive schemes that don't have the same effect. It's the opposition's role to be in opposition, it should just be lacking, but criticizing a budget that is so much better than the Bondevik government put forward in this area is not particularly pleasing as I see it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2510	Unfortunately, we see that the Council of State here has the same challenge as the Council of State that has to do with energy issues – he is so self-satisfied with what is presented that criticism and recording are rarely assessed. Of course, more money is being spent now than four years ago. After all, the government has a total of NOK 160 billion more to distribute only this year, so it should just be lacking that the money is not used. The question is: are they better used in relation to the opposition and others think they could have been used for? You have to compare within one year, not within five years' time. We see many examples of the fact that protection through use, which the Council of State is talking about, is not practiced because of rigid rules of bureaucracy. In Oslo we have an example from Paul's place 4, where an owner wants to upgrade the building. You have to replace the windows because they are rotten, but you are not allowed to save on the nails when you have to replace the wood. Then there is nothing left of the project, and the building is empty and expired. Will the Council of State signal more flexibility in relation to the work of the Riksantikvaren?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2521	We have to distinguish two themes here. One is whether this budget is a good budget or not, and there can be no doubt about it compared to the previous year's budget. Then we have an ideological difference between parts of the opposition and the government, which is what's the best and most accurate way of spending money. In general — not only in this area — the Government believes that it is most accurate to give direct funding to what you want to promote, for example: cultural memories, rather than slightly solving incentives through the tax system. It has elements of an ideological difference, and it's completely fair and fair to discuss in the Storting. I will never ignore the fact that the public meets individuals in a bureaucratic and square way. There is no state system that is free of it, so it can certainly happen in this area too, without me going into individual matters. But if you're too square in individual cases, my approach is to find practical solutions that solve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2530	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 1056]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2548	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2557	The proposal of representatives from the Right for an evaluation of the rapprochement is rejected by a majority of the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left. During the treatment of St.meld. No 15 for 2003–2004, Rovvilt in Norwegian nature, in the spring of 2004 the Stortinget made a settlement on the robberies management. It was adopted stocking targets for bears, wolves, gaupe, yerv and queen eagles, while the conciliation implies facilitating nutrition based on grazing. As a result, the management of predatory game has a two-part objective of taking care of both predatory game and grazing. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, is of the opinion that this agreement is settled. I would like to say for myself that I am very pleased that the Right takes responsibility and still sticks to this agreement. It was an important clarification. Representatives who have promoted the proposal want the Government to promote a case of evaluation of the predatory game policy and the 2003–2004 agreement, «in view of the challenges experienced by the population in the predatory game zones, and proposals for action in line with this». Of course, we, who make up the majority, are open to the fact that, like anywhere else, it may be elements that can be improved. We will therefore continue to assess whether there are aspects that need to be reviewed in order to find new solutions. I can also mention that several actions have already been taken by the majority. For example, the Ministry of the Environment has: as a pilot scheme for 2008 and 2009 provided for a temporary regulation on compensation in the event of an attempt to injure wild game. The testing scheme shall apply until 31 December 2009. This will provide compensation for participants in municipal/intra-municipal killing teams involved in attempts to indemnify predatory game. The sampling scheme provides for compensation in cases of a persistent adverse situation where attempts at killing are ongoing beyond one week. Next year's budget also means strengthening efforts to reduce the loss of livestock and domestic animals to predators by 40 million. kr. This is done to mitigate the level of conflict in predator management. The strengthening will contribute to meeting the objectives of viable predatory and grazing-based farming. Most of the money, about 30 million. kr, is channelled through the regional predators. The funds shall be used for the prevention of animal husbandry and domestic animal husbandry and for anti-conflict measures aimed at municipalities and local communities. The regional denominators have the primary responsibility for the allocation of funds in line with a separate management plan in each region. To reduce the level of conflict, we need safer knowledge about, among other things. stock sizes, land use, number of juveniles and loss of grazing animals for predators. Therefore, of the increase next year, about 6 million. be used for monitoring, so that the conflict between figures and data can be further mitigated. In addition, 4 million. k for strengthening the nature conservation contact work of the State. This is done in order to meet the increased volume of tasks and to strengthen the implementation requirements for both damage documentation, stock registration and killing assistance. The state's nature oversight was strengthened by 1 million. kr in the revised national budget this year to engage hunters in exceptional killing operations. The increase will be continued in the 2009 budget. The proposal from the Right also addresses the need for a common administration with neighbouring regions in our neighbouring country. The Government Parties and the Left point out that close cooperation has already been established, in particular with Sweden, in research, stock monitoring, information exchange, etc. However, it has not been considered appropriate to initiate administrative cooperation with regard to the individual country's stock objectives, cutting regimes, land disposal, etc. This follows, among other things: of the country's autonomous obligations towards the Berne Convention and the administrative differences between, for example: Norway and Sweden in the use of outland. The main principles of government will therefore be firm – in line with the rapprochement and the government's predatory policy, as set out in the Soria Moria Declaration. I note that all parties, with the exception of the Advance Party, end up today on this robberies deal. The various parties will now present their views in more detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2578	The representative Inga Marte Thorkildsen has explained the majority's views on this matter. I just want to add a few words to it. It's very good that the majority deal is still on the table. However, it is also important and appropriate to point out the challenges facing the population, which annually address predatory problems. As I've said so many times before, it's no easy task to walk around and pick up carcasses of both sheep and reindeer that predators have mutilated, so it's almost impossible to determine which predator has been on the road. Agriculture is being laid down in a large-scale way in this country, and soon we are importing most of the sheep meat from New Zealand. It is not a misguided policy, and then it is urgent to take the necessary steps to implement the measures envisaged by the major conciliation in 2004 before all sheep farmers and reindeers have ceased. I believe we are still in arrears with stock registration. But at least where we know that we've met our goal, all the means have to be put in to keep the goal down. This is mostly for joust and yerv. In the case of bears, the scholars argue about the population. We have probably this year experienced more stripping young male bears than ever before. These do great damage on their way, and therefore I think it is particularly important to look at the development of the bear population and bear ewes in some parts of the country before next year's season starts. As an alternate to the Nordic Council, I was so lucky to be in Finland at the end of October. A selection of representatives met the Environment Ministers in the Nordic countries. It was a very good predatory debate, among other things. on joint management. All countries agreed that this would be too complicated in relation to their autonomous commitments to the Berne Convention and that there were major administrative differences, particularly between Norway and Sweden. However, Finland was in the creative corner, suggesting that the Nordic countries could have a common database in which all kinds of information on predatory game is provided. I believe that we in Norway should seriously discuss and participate in this, for everything that can provide us with information, for example on the migration of predators between countries, will be beneficial in managing an active and good predatory policy. But in order to be able to pursue an active predatory policy, good appropriations are required, and this has been followed by the government that is sitting. In the 2009 budget, the Government increased the appropriations by almost 34 million. crowns in relation to the 2008 balanced budget to mitigate conflicts and prevent measures. In the same way, the compensation appropriations for livestock and domestic animals have increased by 13 million. kr. It helps with reasonable replacement arrangements when the sheep flock is reduced by about 20 pst during the summer. some places. I believe it is possible to implement the agreement we agreed on in 2004, by making some adjustments to the current situation, without a major evaluation already now and without a new predator notification at this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2599	The evening's debate in the previous case was almost about to become too cool. I will try to prevent this debate too. Of course, I should have used the majority of my contribution to talk about SV's naive and partly little realistic approach to Norwegian predatory policy, or about the Centre's complete failure in relation to the election campaign promises in 2005, or about the Labor Party's predatory policy objectives that crack more than the stakes of Per Borten in their time. However, I would like to start by addressing the party on the right. Earlier today we debated in this Chamber the Right proposal to ban plastic bags – not a very clever proposal in my opinion. But then at least we knew what the Right meant. We don't do that this time. Without any concrete changes in the predatory settlement, such as: the removal of juveniles such as stocking targets, reduction of the real stocking targets, greater evisceration of yorks, gloats and bears, more effective harm-reduction hunting, compensation for the harm-reductionists and a longer period of time for licence and quota hunting, this proposal does not have any particular meaning. The right does not take a decision on this. The majority of the Committee, including the Right, say in its opinion that they ‘reason that this agreement is established’. If the equation is going to be fixed, why are we going to use a lot of resources to evaluate it again? I perceive the Right proposal as a situational description: it is a Christmas card. And that has led to a few headlines in simple national media. The right does not propose anything concrete today, except for one small thing, and that is that the emergency section must also cover dogs. I'm very happy about that, because then we can at least spend some time discussing the specific point. So a sheep has an average value of between NOK 1000 and NOK 3000, while a well-trained hunting dog is not just a family member – who is loved in a completely different way for Norwegian families – but it can have a cost of NOK 60,000. Today, a hunter cannot trap a predator in need when it attacks his own hunting dog. Of course, that has to change. So, No Marte Thorkildsen says that we're introducing damage-reduction pay from this year on. It must be a misunderstanding. What the government is saying is that damage trappers have to do voluntary work for seven days. For seven days, the perpetrators must be out in the woods, and they will be paid. Some of the damage trappers — the least effective — are paid. But those hunters who in the first seven days are able to capture the predators that the great community has set them to trap, don't get one penny from the state. So it must be a big misunderstanding. It is obvious that it should be amended. It promotes the Advance Party, together with several proposals, on Monday. I hope that we will have a majority in favour of this proposal. The representative Pedersen says that the government has increased the appropriations for fence policy. I will also come back to that on Monday. But I just have to point out that the large post office with increased appropriations for predator management should go to several fences. And the government itself has so little faith in it will work that it also proposes an increase in the damage payment. When not even the government itself has faith in this, at least I don't believe it. But Pedersen's in on something important. Wandering male bears must be shot. That's okay – I totally agree with that. However, if we are to base a youth target of 15 documented young people a year, this means – no matter how many male bears Torny Pedersen and her colleagues in the Northland shoot – that we must have a population of 600 bears in Norway. No matter how many documents there are, it's not possible. 8-proposals Right-hander in this room. We need a reform of Norwegian predatory policy, but it must also include reduced stock targets.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2625	The president asked whether the representative should make a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2628	I will, President. I'm dealing with the proposal that we have with the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2633	The representative Tord Lien has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2636	Robbery is a combustible theme, where applicable. Since I think that most of the posts have been heavily bombed on the target, I will try to explain some of the background to the proposal. In land it is increasingly affected, but in the population there are still quite a few who have got this close. There's also the cat buried. We have a policy that is shaped by a majority that is not affected and that is in strong conflict with the minority that is really affected. It's a paradox that the Storting doesn't have the ability to listen. We have a predatory policy that is not sustainable. It shall be heard weakly in order not to find that high predatory game concentrations mean a high level of conflict. Eiding rights disappear. What many will call a real-life remote bureaucracy has tried a lot, but has ended up either buying out the last contentious rightholders from the conflict, such as Kåre Kleiva in Elverum, or having absolutely hopeless attempts at grazing areas – under the guise of pursuing sensible environmental policies. The expressed assumption that a two-part objective should be maintained throughout the country is abandoned. The assumption does not hold. Privileges are lost. Hunting and fielding is an income potential of DistrictNorway and landowners, which does not require a krona in subsidies from government authorities. One would think that this was something that you focused on, but it doesn't get much attention. A recent report from the Hedmark College — since research was requested — in which researchers, management and landowners have analysed the impact of the wolf establishment on the Koppang cold in the period 1997–2005 is recommended. This is probably the closest thing we can ever get to an isolated experiment with the construction of a wolf. The conclusion is clear: the costs for landowners are 2 million. kr per. years in lost hunting and rental income. The wolf is in this way quite special, because it claims revir, and the load becomes very concentrated where the revir is. For the time being, it is really only the area east of Glomma from Kongswinger and up to Elverum that has had this load continuously for a long time. There are all kinds of cross-border flocks and Norwegian flocks. Nor at this point does the predatory game agreement hold the premise. The areas that have had a heavy load would rather get a lower load, it says in the comparison. Is there anyone who wonders that there will be a conflict, when there are the rightholders in a small zone – or in a reserve, as I would call it – who will pay the ‘valid’ on behalf of the big community? This isn't sustainable. Finally, there is a conflict with the quality of life of the general public. I see it every day. People don't use the field anymore. Bear ploughing and the forest as a source of recreation are not available in the same way as before. It's just looking at today's eastern landing, you see an example of it. In particular, women and children refuse. The people have been looking for food because they don't want to risk finding a cup of food. For many, it was the most important source of recreation they had. That predatory game in given situations is not dangerous should be a claim that is dead and buried. Most people experience a little discomfort when they find the wolf's remains in the sheaths that are built, or hit on the trail after the bear's activities. However, the primordial society continues to act as if this is not a concern. Real local administration and a completely different dialogue would at least have shown that there is an understanding of this by the majority. Instead, the conflict is cultivated and the local right of access is violated. It's not sustainable. Today, Stortinget is voting down a proposal that I am convinced could have contributed to getting the robberies debate away from the yes/no focus, which has obscured the need to find tools and measures to get the local population along with it instead of against it. In this way, I don't fully understand what the representative Lien is aiming for, because that's exactly the yes/no conflict, maybe, he prefers, but I want it a little bit away from. I think we need to find a policy in which respect for property rights and rights and respect for the life base and quality of life of the community must be the focus. I understand why such thoughts are not heard very much in parts of the Government. Respect for property rights and individuals is not just as rooted everywhere, but I am amazed that the centre party has so easily sold itself out of this. Who doesn't remember the Center Party with a high-flagging anti-tank game deal and as war elevators in the last period? Now all of a sudden, it's called working in the quiet – well, it's become terribly quiet, and the results speak for themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2653	Many people are concerned with predators – it's a matter of engagement – and there's a great deal of disagreement about how much place predators should have in our nature. There are many who experience fear of predators, while others are happy that we have our predators. It is important to show one another respect for the fact that there are different opinions about the place of predators. If we do not show respect to each other, we will have enough conflict, and in predatory policy, there are too many conflicts. I am pleased that there is a majority in this Chamber who agree that there may be elements in today's governance that need to be changed and that this will be assessed on an ongoing basis. When the predator agreement was concluded in the previous period, many intentions had been reconciled. One of these was to create more peace. Unfortunately, the settlement policy has not created this calm that we had thought would come, and I regret that. For the Christian People's Party, good stock registration has been important. It's important to have a factual basis, from which we can then pursue politics. The right-hand proposal means that the focus will be on the content and organisation of the policy, but it is that everything is related to everything, and I think that predatory policy shows this with all clarity. Therefore, the Christian People's Party cannot support the proposal for this evaluation. It just wants to tackle some parts of the deal and maybe not the core itself, that go on the stock targets and the zone problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2672	Let me first say that I am pleased that the Storting is debating predatory policies. There is a need to debate an administrative regime that so many people disagree with, but still have to stick to, for the simple reason that they live and live their lives in areas where the Storting has assumed that predator populations will survive. There is no doubt that many people who live and feed in areas that are at the heart of our great predators feel that having these animals close to life is a great burden. People who are feeding experience to find domestically healthy or with such great injuries that they listen to them being killed. The peasant in the Saferdalen has lost much of the herd to you this year and in previous years. Along the Swedish border, the wolf intervenes in livestock. Especially after bear attacks, it is not uncommon to find sheep damaged in such a way that the udder and other meaty parts of the body are torn off, but the damage is not so extensive that the animal dies. One does not need to be a veterinarian to understand what suffering an animal is suffering from such attacks and in the hours they live with the injuries before they are found by the owner. Nor does one have to be a psychologist to realize that this makes a strong impression on those who own the animals, and of course are happy with them. Furthermore, it is easy to understand that parents who drop kids on a school road in Pasvik, where children are observed daily for periods of time, are unsafe. In Pasvik, people experience that the bear behaves closely and abnormally. The request to take out the closest bears is rejected, while the license hunt is opened more generally. Understandably, people react. The centre party has long pointed to the obvious weaknesses of the predatory agreement and the strain on predatory policies is too many of those living in nuclear areas. We don't always need an evaluation to find an improvement potential; we already have that knowledge. The central party's primary solution is a common Nordic administration of our big predators, but it doesn't have political support. In this period, we have been able to reconcile ourselves with the fact that the plurality is too predatory, and the plurality is massive – both in the Stortinget and in the Government – in support of the conciliation. Our possibility will then be to find solutions that improve the administration within the framework of the predatory settlement. The center party thinks there are several measures we can take to mitigate the conflicts in our predatory areas. The government has already stated in the Soria Moria Declaration that: the stocking stock shall be assessed on the basis of the impact on grazing, grazing animals and the quality of life of people in predatory areas the effort to prevent predatory damage shall be increased significantly one shall strengthen cooperation in the cross-border management of predators, and shall enhance the knowledge of the size of the stocks one shall have an emergency protection paragraph which shall clarify the animal owner's right to protect domestic animals and dogs from predatory game attacks one shall ensure an effective extraction of pests and put in action killing when predators develop a threatening behaviour on repeated visits of household members to ensure good compensation arrangements; On some of these areas, the Government is well underway; on others, strong efforts are needed. It is not easy to know how to interpret presented as Right here today. Do you want to get away from the predatory game agreement, or is this just a symbol marker for the selectors in those parts of the country where the loads resulting from predators are large? If that's the first, let's in the Center Party wish you a welcome. At least there will be new tones from the Right. But there's a lot of evidence that it's the last one, and then the Right People lead behind the light. The answer may come in the course of the debate, but I have good reason to right its leader, Erna Solberg, to say that the Right has intended to go away from the predatory settlement. It's not that strange, because we know that had it been up to the Right in the previous period, when the deal was negotiated, the goal would have been considerably more predators than what, after all, is the ingredient in the predatory agreement – perhaps closer to 50 more bears. The conclusion of today's proposal is: The right is that they want more predators – but one will have less conflict. Good luck! The evidence for this strategy is seen in the comments on the proposal before us, where the Progress Party stresses that a commitment to the evaluation is that the stock is reviewed. This is not the right-hand side of it. It will be exciting to see if this debate answers what is today's big questions, namely whether we get a signal from the Right here in the debate about being willing to go away from the elements one was on in the predatory settlement. If it's not, I think I should be honest enough to admit it, and don't try to give an impression of something else when a person communicates with those who have to live with the Right regime itself has got multiple numbers for.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2723	This is a matter in which it is difficult to understand whether the person who has the word expresses the party's point of view or whether it is – I kept saying – a freegoing individual. I think we have to stick to the setting to see what is the position of the parties. So it's the way everyone except the Advance Party is behind the predatory settlement. The majority, with the exception of the Right, who want a review, also say that one must take care of the conflicts as they emerge and try to improve the basis on which the policy is based. What made me take the floor was Gunnar Gundersen's contribution. He said that a policy designed by a majority that does not listen is a wrong policy, a policy made by people who live far away from the problem. This is a framework criticism by former Environment Minister Børge Brende. It was he and former Minister of Agriculture Lars Sponheim who were the architects behind the predatory settlement, a settlement that got broad agreement in Stortinget. I understand that a person starts from conflicts and discusses how they are to be resolved, but it is quite different when a person makes a general settlement with the policy on which this agreement is based. I'm assuming that the Right doesn't, but I'm recording that Gunnar Gundersen does. The left is behind the predatory settlement. We're open to adjustments to improve it. We recognize that there are conflicts here that we want to build on both of the pillars on which the predatory settlement is based. But I actually think that in this case, there is a lack of someone who stands up and underlines the obligations we have to care for predators and lay the foundations for sustainable populations. It should be an important political objective for everyone – at least it is for the Left Party of the Environment. But at the same time, we must lay the foundation for coexistence, have respect for those in these conflicts, and meet them with harshness and understanding. That's what I wanted to say from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2734	It was refreshing to hear Gunnar Kvassheim's articles. I believe it was the Vice-President of Richard Nixon, Spiro Agnew, who once put the term 'the silent majority'. If there is one theme where I am fully aware that there is a tacit majority in Norway, it is predatory policy. Then we're also talking about a silent majority in District Norway. The silent majority wants us both to have predators in Norwegian nature, that we should facilitate sheep farming around the district of Norway, and that people in the district of Norway should be able to live with predators without fear. For too long we have allowed this debate to be dominated by some well-meaning environmentalists in the cities who cannot understand that it looks different from the Engerdal or Lierne than from Oslo. On the other hand, there are people who are trying to exploit any conceivable or unimaginable cause to whip up the mood against predators, and who actually have as their agenda to remove all predators from Norwegian nature. I would encourage the vast, broad majority of the Grand Duchy, who have also distinguished themselves in this matter, to take ownership of this matter back from the extremes. Then it is very reassuring that the Right stands with all the other parties, except the Advance Party, to accept the predatory settlement as the further policy. But the consequence of this should also be that the Right does not use every conceivable opportunity to find something to criticise, to whip up the mood against the agreement that the party quite rightly was one of the architects behind it – a settlement they have supported all along, and even confirms that they are behind it. We've set targets for bear, wolf, gaupe, yerv and queen. The joy is that much of the policy works – not so that conflict has been resolved in this area, there will be a long, long-term conflict around predatory policies, but the policy works in the sense that the stock target for you and gloat is now reached. Then you can change some of the assumptions in that area, once you've reached your goal. There are positive trends in getting up the wolf population — a lot of evidence suggests that we have three young wolves in Norway this year. It's also a sign that it works. We have a lot longer when it comes to bears. Policy also works in the sense that there are many measures and much more money involved than ever before. The centre party has been an avid driver of this, for various conflict mitigation measures in the districts to enable people to live without fear, and to enable an active sheep population to be maintained even in areas where predatory game is present. We have also established eight management regions for predators on the basis of the predatory settlement. They've got a lot of work going on. I was very impressed when I visited the Robbery regions of Troms and Finmark and saw how knowledgeable, active and engaged they were, and how busy they were to make this work – to bring up predatory populations, but in a way that allows both humans and not least sheep to coexist with predators. Let these constructively try to solve the conflicts, get some rest to solve them. They also have the power to establish their own management plan, to allocate funds to prevent and mitigate conflicts, to set quotas for the collection of licences, damages and quota hunts for stocks where the regional stock targets have been met. We suggest that grazing and predatory game should be given different priority in different parts of the country, just to get the coexistence we want. It is the regional predators who implement these priorities within the region in their management plans. Close cooperation has also been established, in particular with Sweden — but not on joint administrative cooperation. This will be difficult, because the Swedish countryside for a large part is depopulated and looks completely different from the Norwegian. Joint management will be difficult and, in fact, a major problem in a country such as Norway, with such extensive animal husbandry in the districts. But we can work together on a lot, not least research, registration, knowledge development and in a series of other areas. Of course, cooperation with Finland and other related countries may also be relevant. In order to clarify the animal owner’s right to protect domestic animals and dogs from attack, a proposal to amend Section 11 of the Wildlife Act has been out for consultation. That proposal involves the liberalisation of the so-called emergency protection provision. There have been strong points of view, including: to the Ministry of the Environment’s proposal not to include a dog in the emergency protection provision. I can assure you that I will make a careful assessment of the recordings that have come to that hearing, both on this issue and on all other matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2751	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2754	Governments were concerned that many of the decision-makers had listened too much to the protection of nature in the west of Oslo. I can immediately deny that I am one of them. The Council of State is at the end of its article on something I'm going to try to ask for. I was in my post saying that dogs for many hunters, walkers and others in Norway are almost for a family member to count. It has per cent. at present a completely different protection from that of domestic animals, e.g. sheep – which perhaps some also have a close relationship with, what do I know, but perhaps not in the same way as a hunting dog who lives in the house with people. Hunting is also becoming an increasingly important part of the source of income for both rightholders and landowners in Norway. Does the Council of State consider it reasonable that hunting dogs should be protected by emergency protection other than sheep?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2763	Since it is one of the topics that has now been consulted and on which we are to assess the opinion of the hearing bodies, it is not right for me to draw any conclusions now – we will have to come back to that. But since I have an opportunity with the representative, Lien, I would very much like to distance myself from the point of view that was promoted here, which was supposed to mean that the hunting laws that spend a long time finding wolves in Norwegian nature would be worse shooters, or so to speak, being unorganized. It was suggested that you are a good shooter if you get hold of them within a day or two. If you use more than a week, it's a sign that you're bad. This is often about the best hunting teams in Norway, and it is a very difficult task. The purpose of this rule is to facilitate the slow, laborious work of finding a predator. Therefore, it has been stated that there is work beyond seven days that is rewarded.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2768	I thought the council began well, but then I became a little more concerned afterwards. The point of the proposal is to try to get a debate on how to actually find solutions in relation to the local population where the burden is greater. I read in the Annex to the case, a letter from the Ministry, that there is an administration that ‘takes account of predators, businesses and other local interests’. The councils know very well that in the most vulnerable areas of the North-Trunde Team and Hedmark is no longer the case. Then you don't take everyone into account. I have not yet heard a single speaker here who has commented that it is actually individuals who sit and pay the costs of society's policies. We are talking about an overall framework, anti-conflict measures, etc., but we are not talking about individuals. Will the Council of State soon enter into the debate at the level he belongs to?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2777	That point, that of seeing the individual in every case, I think is one of the most important things that politicians do in every question, no matter what we do – not just see great views and principles, but see how it works for the individual human being. This is precisely why this government has provided for a significant escalation – again, not least thanks to the efforts of the Centre Party in this area – of the anti-conflict measures to prevent people from being unnecessarily afraid. It can be said that in many cases the fear is not well-founded – there is much greater risk of being run over in the Engerdal or in the Lire than of being attacked by a predator there. But what people feel, we can't judge ourselves, and a lot of people are afraid. Of course – not least Erling Sande, and others, have been involved – there are people who see the effects of predators attacking sheep. It makes a strong impression on people, not least children. It's clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2782	I think I need to clarify the answer given to the representative Tord Lien – it went hunting. Today, if you hunt for seven days, you don't get five cents. But if you continue to hunt for eight, nine days, etc., you get paid. Does the Council of State think this is fair? It has nothing to do with how long the hunt takes. You're an approved hunting team, you have a mission, and you do it. If you were to finish after day 6 or day 16, it would have no meaning. Every day must be equally valuable.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2789	The basis for this scheme was that they wanted to make this right as close as possible to normal hunting, and hunting is, as is well known, not paid in Norway. But if this was something that drew out, it was particularly lengthy and particularly difficult and complicated, they wanted it to be compensation for the lost earnings that those who accept this over a long period of time have. Many thoughts can be made as to the time from which the remuneration should be paid. It's a perfectly legitimate debate, but any suggestion that someone should draw this out in time, should be bad shooters, should be unknown in nature because it takes a long time to find something as difficult as a predator, at least there's every reason to distance.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2796	Now no one in this room has suggested that the hunting laws that unfortunately sometimes have to spend a long time finding these pests are bad hunting laws. The insinuations on behalf of the Advancement Party will have asked me to do so. But it's so that in some species, for example: Yours and yours, not only have you reached the stock targets, but you have largely over-filled the stock targets. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the population – especially of yours, but also of yours – is kept on the stock targets that the majority of population have actually said they should be on?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2804	I have previously been accused of self-satisfaction on behalf of the Government and the Storting, but what Lien is drawing out is just an example of the functioning of the Stortinge animal settlement. So you've reached the goal of gaupe and yerv. At least you're on a good path to reach it for the wolf. It is clear that there are also conflicts, because that means that there are actually more predators in Norwegian nature – and thus there will be more conflicts. But, of course, when these objectives are met, more liberalisation is provided for in the decision-making process. And if one were to find a situation where there would be large tribes in Norway, one would be able to facilitate the general pursuit of them. In the meantime, it is appropriate to liberalise the emergency protection provision in cases where the stock targets have been reached. But once again, the achievement of the stock targets shows that the policy that all other parties in this house – except the Advance Party – have agreed on, works. It should make us happy, even if it creates some conflicts.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2813	I think the Council of State knows there's a pretty strong concentration in certain areas. We saw that when the bear was licensed in Hedmark this year no permits were granted east of Glomma. Despite the fact that the local predatory wildlife student recommended ten killing permits, it was given two, and no one east of Glomma. It is probably the most concentrated area in the country. It's also the area that has wolf establishments, and you also have the other two predator species in the same area. So the concentration is going to be very high. We can see that in the case of grazing animals, which are largely gone. So now we've got that report from the Hedmark High School, which shows that the load on one wolf pack is 2 million. kr in lost income for landowners and rightholders within that area. Will the Council of State go in and look at that conflict? Because it is clear that there is a violent trigger for conflict locally where we see this developing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2820	I will definitely, together with my office, look at the research that has been done and the reports that have been made there. At the same time, I would like to take the opportunity to ask that the representative, Mr Gundersen, express some pleasure over the Right Policy and will support the Right Policy. The right was, as has been said very clearly, among the architects of this predatory settlement. The right has been in charge of it all the time in Stortinget. The right-hand side confirms that even today, that you're behind this. Then we should help others to make this work, dampen the conflicts, not look for any things that can be criticised by this agreement, in the hope of some sort of gain.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2827	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2832	First of all, I would like to say that I note that the Progress Party and the Right have a common proposal for an evaluation of the predatory game policy and the 2003–2004 rapprochement. It was just the Progress Party that wasn't in the deal, which I'm proud of and happy with. I am amazed that some other parties joined in. Because I come from a district with many and partly major predatory game problems, I think I know the problem fairly well. Often, the predatory game problem is linked only to buffs and preferably then to dealing with sheep. But this is about so much more. It's about the quality of life and the ability to reap from what nature can provide. When you come from a district, whether it's Hedmark or somewhere else, where the main income comes from nature and its uses, and then you get a third of a predatory zone down, it creates a new everyday life in this district. Those who believe that it is possible to operate with e.g. Buff a place where the wolf shall at the same time breed, must believe again. It goes without saying that this is not feasible at the same place at the same time. It is not nice to have conflicts. Often, these conflicts are either unsolved or resolved in such a way that people have to end up with what gave the main income or income, which meant that it was enough to live on together. When I mentioned quality of life, it can mean so much. Quality of life does not have the same content for all of us. For those who live in the districts, it may be enough to go hunting, train their dog, pick berries or mushrooms or just go out in the woods to wish for a good quality of life to be fulfilled. It is also about letting their children grow up in an environment far from exhaust gas and stress. When the predators arrive, this quality of life is impaired. And how are we going to be able to replace this? Some things can't be replaced by money. A growing industry in individual districts, such as in Hedmark, is hunting and rental of hunting. When the predators take over after elk and deer, this possibility disappears. The same is true of the positive ring-effects in terms of service provision. Therefore, some things need to be put in place if the big community is to impose such great consequences on a district. This may include, inter alia: mention is made of the liberalisation of the emergency protection clause and the speedy granting of the killing permit, etc. Otherwise I have to ask, where is the Center Party in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2847	I was inspired by Gundersen's proposals and Gundersen's contribution to take the floor in this debate, which we have been in before in this Chamber. Gunnar Gundersen's description of the situation as it has evolved, I think it could have been very well taken out of the Great Britain's protocols when the Senter Party argued against the predatory settlement at the time it was concluded – then against the Right, against an Environment Minister, otherwise, who was behind the conciliation and was the main architect behind it. There is something about the reasoning behind and the conclusion that I want to put a big question mark on. It becomes very strange when you draw up a reasoning that describes in the field how bad things have gone, how bad things are and how deep this goes into individuals, into nutrition and property rights. Some of this I would like to have discussed honestly and fairly with Gunnar Gundersen, but when he saw in the next sentence that the predator agreement is established, that the targets are fixed, there is good reason to question how honest and how sincere the commitment is. This means that Gunnar Gundersen does not want fewer predators in these areas, he wants more predators. In fact, the stock targets have been achieved for you and gaupe, but both for wolf and bear it is partly far again. I would like to hear Gunnar Gundersen explain from this chair how it relates to the fact that, on the one hand, we are promoting this proposal and, on the other hand, we sincerely believe that the figures on the wolf and the numbers on the bear should rise. It is in my opinion that you are not willing to take the consequences of your own reasoning. I think it's approaching Christmas, and it's time to send Christmas cards home – home to Hedmark. This is nothing less than Gunnar Gundersen's own emergency army paragraph to his own electors in Hedmark. There are many here who have mentioned respect for the individual in broad order tonight. I fully agree with that. I believe that a good deal further has been achieved in this period because the Government has put a great deal of emphasis on anti-conflict measures. I feel that it is the will, especially on the part of the Minister for the Environment, to meet Norwegian farmers and the Norwegian rural industry. Not least we appreciate it. But I also want to say that we in the Center Party feel that there is a lot left. It is still a long way to say that we are in the goal of the predatory agreement, and that there is a good balance between predators and the nutritional practice of individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2860	I had not expected the Right to be exposed to the purest crossfire in this case, ranging from claims that the Right sends out light Christmas cards, as the representative Lien said, now prescribed by the representative Borten Moe, to the fact that Kvassheim believes that we are postponing former Environment Minister Børge Burnde for the purest frontal attack, and to the representative Sande, who believes that everything today would have been much, much worse if the Right Policy in this area had been implemented. Just to make it quite clear, the right is behind the predatory game deal. We are behind the Berne Convention on viable populations. But I think that all those who are now involved with the finger on the trigger towards the right, make the fundamental mistake that you avoid looking back. This agreement was very controversial when it was adopted five to six years ago. It was just to be lacking that we today do not take the trouble to look back and see if this has become as intended. The right did not go at the last choice from one village to the next built with the vignette and the pamphlet ‘vernage break’. We didn't. And I think that both the Progress Party and the Central Party today should be happy that we have made a proposal that gives us the opportunity to review, especially if we take the trouble of listening a little to those who live in the most stressed areas of the country, who are actually the most affected by this policy that we are going to have to balance. In large parts of these settlements, they express their political superiority. We see empty farming, we see relocation, and we see the problems that have arisen. The Council of State says that the Right takes every opportunity in the hope of some political gain. It could be tempting to say that there are professionals in the field of political gain who give this opinion. But that's not our motivation. I had actually thought that someone would be relatively happy that we would review this agreement that is now beginning to become a few years old. It is quite correct, as the representative Lien had in mind, that the Right is sending Christmas cards. We're sending Christmas cards for Christmas, but we don't send Christmas cards all year round.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2873	You don't know exactly where to start. Christmas cards? Then we started the season early in the case, since the proposal was submitted in June. But I want to say it's a little bit of a class bomb the Center Party sends out across District Norway, when you don't stand by what you've said before, and take the fight where it's to be taken. In the case of the predatory game deal, this is what Ivar Kristiansen was about, that we recognize that we can't just continue to have a discussion about yes and no to predatory game in Norway. I recognize that it means that you have to say that you are responsible for the four predatory species. I've been faking that for a long time. But it is also no secret that I was quite skeptical when the robberies agreement was concluded, and I also made it very clear at the time. Unfortunately, I didn't get ahead. It is possible that this is because we were together with the Left, among others. in government. But we didn't get there. How large a population of wild game it is to be in Norway at last, I also have no clear perception of. But I have a pretty clear perception that parts of the zone policy that are now taking place are approaching reserve conditions in parts of the country. If the nation wants such strong concentrations in certain parts of the country, it is better to say so, and take the debate on the basis that there should not be a two-part objective here. Here there shall be no grazing animals, the predatory game shall have priority in the case of moose and other wild animals, and they shall have priority over free circulation in the wild. There is a debate itself that has to be discussed with the local population about, because it has a very strong impact. Where Per Roar Bredvold and I come from, the situation begins to approach it. That's just what I want to focus on, that then we actually have to go into the assumptions and assumptions you have in those parts of the country where the burden gets so heavy. That's also why I asked for it with concentration of both bear, wolf and the other two predatory game species within the same area. I record that many here have a very need to attack the Right so that we have tried to get this debate on a track where you can actually start discussing this on the premises of the individuals and individual communities affected. I'm recording that the roadway is large. There's still a lot of people who want to keep this at an arm's length, and I'm going to keep trying to get the debate down on the plane where it belongs.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2886	This debate has now included both Christmas cards and class bombs, and it is an interesting development. Once again, I would like to address that Council of State – which, to the extent that it is also a class bomb expert – said about the accident squad here in the past. The council has a reputation in this house to be one of the few state councils that are tidy in the debates, but then I think he'll stay too good to put words in my mouth, almost that I'd said that the battle of damage that takes more than seven days is incompetent. I didn't say that. I've been trying to point out that there's an effective killing, and perhaps shooting pests that the state has said they should shoot, the seventh day they're at work, and not getting paid for it, while those who shoot in day eight, get paid for it. It seems to me to be a paradox, and the Council of State may ask itself whether he has the opportunity to leave and work on a voluntary basis for five to six days in the sling, which is the case in some municipalities in Norway. I believe that this is an unsustainable solution. Government parties may want to have a different opinion about that. That's what I mean, and not that we have incompetent damage traps, because we don't. So for emergency workers and the question of dog to be included. Now the Soria Moria Declaration – and, as far as I know, it is now three years old – states that the emergency paragraph should be revised. It was published with bragging and bram from both workers' party representatives and centre party representatives that it meant that a dog was going into the emergency guard section. I have tried several times to underline how unreasonable I think it is that the dog is not included in the emergency guard paragraph, and let it go with it. Then both the Council of State and the representative Pedersen have said the conciliation works. But Pedersen also said something else, which I want to compare with that, that now there is almost no sheep left in Norway, and all the sheep meat comes from New Zealand. Then it is a great paradox that despite the fact that the representative Pedersen believes that there is no sheep left in Norway, the government expects the losses of sheep to rise next year. There are no sheep left in the outlying Norway, yet losses are increasing. It must mean that predators take a significantly higher proportion of the sheep actually out there. As far as I remember, two objectives had been reconciled: maintaining business activities in the field and stocking targets for predators. You've done one of the goals, there's little doubt about it, but only one goal. I hope you do not succeed in getting a population in Norway of 600 bears.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2901	I had almost said that the sheep is in a sabbatical challenging position. With the predators on one edge and the Progress Party's agricultural policy on the other, you're in a crossfire if you're sheep in our day. But that was the posts for Gunnar Gundersen I was going to comment on. The representative, Gundersen, simply says that predatory policies are not resilient, that a reservation state has been introduced in parts of the country, that high predatory density leads to conflicts. When I read these sentences, it's not because I'm so dissenting in what Gundersen says, but this is the policy for which Right has won multiple numbers and which they still want. ‘The gift of fear’ is not a parliamentary act, and it is just as good, for it could be easy to be tempted. When one points to the challenges of high density predators in an area where people live and feed, and then says that one will keep predators there, and even have more, but have less conflict, one starts to wonder if it is human and livestock anyone sees leaving the area. Right-wing regional and agricultural policy supports so far under such a strategy, but we are there today that we have a situation where we are going to have more predators, not fewer. I want to ask the representative Gundersen to come up here and confirm on behalf of his party that he supports it. Is it so that the Right will have more predators compared to the current situation, or will they have fewer?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2910	I intend to address the two-part objective of the predatory agreement, which I myself find very sympathetic, namely to balance the concerns of local communities, the ownership of individual people and the consideration of nutrition with the responsibility of the community to maintain viable populations of Norwegian predators. I think it's a problem that Stortinget has to take on more in the future, and to the extent that there's a problem that deserves to be evaluated, and to the extent that there are some goals that deserve to be evaluated, it should be just these. The number of predators is central to the predatory settlement. The number of predators shall reach. I think it's quite obvious that in many parts of the country many people feel that just the number of predators is pushing them out of the industry, making them out of the industry, making them insecure and degrade the quality of life of a good number of people. On that basis, I believe that an evaluation could have been obtained. However, it is not possible to go into that evaluation with the objectives being set. Then you have to have an open end on it. Then there is a question that no one in the United Kingdom has so far raised to debate, nor within the Government. It's about whether it's possible to achieve this goal. The size has decided that wolves and lambs will be happy together on the outback. There is empirical evidence that implementation may be difficult, at least for a while. You might at some point have to take the consequences of such a confession, if the time has come to get there, and then sit down and discuss what consequences it obviously has to have. But those consequences no one has mentioned, and obviously no one has been willing to discuss the natural consequences of such recognition either.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2920	I feel the need to give an answer to the representative Tord Lien. Here in the Chamber we are really quite used to the fact that the representative Tord Lien hears what he wants to hear. It has also happened now, and that is why I need to take a little reprisal – the others can listen to – of what I really said: ‘A large-scale agriculture is being laid down in this country, and soon we are importing most of the sheep meat from New Zealand. It is not a misguided policy, and then it is urgent to take the necessary steps to implement the measures envisaged by the major conciliation in 2004 before all sheep farmers and reindeers have ceased.’ That's what I said. The most important thing is to make the agreement work, so we don't have to go to the step that we have to lay down even more agriculture. So to that with replacement. It's not like we're going to go in for compensation because the sheep is going away. The compensation has increased, because we see that it is necessary for those who lose sheep on pasture to receive the compensation they are actually entitled to. So one more thing: you've gradually become a lot better at finding out why that sheep is dead or that sheep is dead. You've become a lot better at finding out about the cadaver -- you've been researching it -- the reason it's there. It also suggests that we need to increase the compensation. There's a difficult situation out there -- there's no doubt about it -- but the denominators are doing an incredibly good job, as the Council of State also said. If we stop painting out these situations, I think we'll be able to get to port with the deal that really has a good content.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2941	This is a bit of a special debate, because here is a party that was involved in the conciliation, and that wants to evaluate it – if not otherwise – by a party that was opposed to the conciliation, but that does not want to evaluate it, and that says it should apply. It's a paradox of dimensions, and I think the way the Center Party behaves in this case is very free. If the Central Party thinks the agreement is good, they'd rather be praised for standing on the right side of it. If the Central Party does not seem to have a good deal of agreement, they may vote in favour of an evaluation of it or even go further and say that the settlement should be terminated. I think it's almost shameful to have such a kind of political debate. At the same time, it would have been interesting to hear the representative, Gundersen, say whether he was in favour or against the agreement. I think what one sees in this matter is simply that this agreement was concluded by some of the Bondevik II government with their hands at their noses, because one does not think it was good. It's a way of running policies that today's government is constantly practicing, through theses and open conflicts. In predatory policy, the Government sees that they will need to increase the amount of damage and increase the appropriations to compensate for the livestock being taken. It shows that this predatory settlement doesn't work. That we're going to spend many years waiting to see that the deal works, as many have suggested – yes, it's just waiting to see that more and more sheep and dogs are taken by predators. When a settlement is based on an unrealistic approach, where one expects predators to see boundaries and predators to stay within certain areas, it is so unrealistic that one will never get any good results. That's exactly why I think the Right should be credited because they dared to see the consequences of what they themselves were involved in, and that we should adopt an evaluation, so that we could look with open eyes – everyone who is here, both those who were initially in favour, and those who were initially opposed – at the consequences of the conciliation, so that we could make some changes in the political line. It's a little special when you have a government that, just like in petroleum policy, sits in political quarters and discusses in every direction and obviously is not in agreement and cannot agree, and that has the exact same approach to predatory policy. One will certainly not carry out that evaluation and take an open debate so that the Storting can make corrections. One puts a lid on it, and has a government council that sweeps it away in the big debate, and opens up so that one understands that someone may think so, but one dares not take a stand even in many of the cases. This will maintain the status quo. Those who were against the predatory settlement do not force through the debate that Stortinget should have had to make sure that we get into a slightly more realistic line. Unfortunately, predatory policies are also included in the Red-Green Seminar, where one does not draw conclusions, but only debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2952	The President would point out that in this Chamber there is no one who is "flashing". Gunnar Gundersen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2957	I think it's going to have to learn a little bit from what you've been into, and be willing to go in and look at the effects. That's what I'm reading out of the proposal here, and that's going to be a lot of praise for the party right there. I was not even at Stortinget when the robber agreed. Whether I'm for or against, I think in and of myself is uninteresting. As I said instead, I realize that if you're going to get somewhere, you also have to discuss on the basis that the majority has, and that's that you want to take responsibility for the four major predatory species. Then you have to discuss this on that basis – how do we do it? Whether we're going to have more or less in the predatory game populations as a goal, I really don't have the prerequisites to discuss. What I know is that in Åsnes, in my municipality, we've had three wolf packs at the same time. That means the whole national objective. In addition, we have bears, and we have the other predators. That means that we have at least full time. We get stuck with a lot of the load alone. That's what we're trying to focus on, that you get a very concentrated load. You should be able to enter into a debate on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2966	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 1056]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2982	At the request of the Environment and Energy Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given within the allocated speaking time following contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e2989	It's really a pretty big thing that's being dealt with today. All the tribute to the proposers from the Christian People's Party who have addressed this matter. It's going to increase in time and scope in the future as well. I would say that there seems to be quite broad agreement in this Chamber on the approach to the political solutions, but we distinguish layers by the fact that there are two opposition parties behind the proposal being promoted in the case. The proposal is motivated by the fact that we have not had a big message for political treatment in the Stortingen on the waste problem since 1991. With the attention and problems of the volume of waste in Norway as well, opposition parties believe that a broader approach to the issue could be very useful than that carried out in the presentation of the 2009 government budget. You can't say with all the goodwill of the world that this bears the mark of being a complete review of the matter. The big challenge is that we have nearly 1 million tons of biodegradable waste that needs to be treated differently from 1 July next year. There is no doubt that while those in charge of waste management around the country should be relatively well prepared for the ban on landfill to come into force, we will not be able to deal with this challenge. Even if all planned plants were to see the light of the day, we would still have a sub-capacity to handle degradable waste when the deadline expires. That's our big challenge. One aspect is that we have a climate settlement in the Storting in this area, where the aim of course is to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions that waste landfills represent in Norway today, which are between 2 pst. and 3 pst. The second challenge, of course, is also to be able to harness the energy and energy potential that degradable waste represents in Norway. However, we might also have insisted on getting a slightly larger and wider debate on waste management in Norway, on consumer behaviour, producer liability schemes, how the EU is dealing with its waste problems, what plans they have, and how national governments are addressing these challenges, because we have a development in the amount of waste in Norway that is significant and it is deplorable. Since 1995, we have had a growth in household waste in Norway of 71 p.m. We had a growth in household waste in Norway last year of over 6 p.p., and that's significant. We shouldn't have ambitions for the world to evolve like this. I would also like to stress that we need to look at waste as an energy potential. If we succeed in creating the policy that should be created in this area, we have an energy resource of rank that needs to be developed. This means that the forces, regional and local, responsible in this area must take action. If we don't want to see that we're not going to succeed in the area of the waste problem, nor in exploiting the energy potential. Then we will see lost opportunities, and we will see that we still have to export waste out of the country, as other countries, preferably Sweden and Denmark, and possibly Finland, will use it for energy purposes. That's why I'm just stressing that we're going to succeed in this area, depending on how we manage to use the energy in biodegradable waste. If we succeed there, we have also succeeded in reducing greenhouse gas emissions in Norway, which we all have as our objective. On this basis, I refer to the proposal referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e3006	The representative Ivar Kristiansen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e3009	I would first of all like to express my opinion that it is good for us to have a debate on waste policy in the Stortinget. It is a policy area that often does not receive the attention it deserves, taking into account the importance of waste management both for well-being, living conditions, the environment and the climate. 2.5 pst. of the total Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions derive from waste landfills. It's significant. One of the long-term objectives underlying our waste policy is that the growth of waste volumes should be significantly less than economic growth. It's just to admit that we haven't done that. To date, the amount of waste has grown roughly as GDP grew, and developments are particularly bad in the household sector. The case rapporteur correctly indicated that the volume of household waste has grown by 71 pst. since 1995. It says something about the need to focus not only on combustion and energy recovery, which the proposers are concerned about, but also on waste prevention. We live in a society where the use-and-cast attitude is widespread, and even with the best possible waste management, it is a problem with both practical, environmental and ethical aspects. I am very pleased that the Ministry of the Environment in the future will have a special focus on that very thing. These include: a separate entry for a waste prevention project on the State budget. So it's also like this, and it's a little important to remember, that material recycling has a greater climate impact than combustion with energy recovery, and it's important to have that perspective when discussing the framework conditions for energy recovery. Then, of course, by the majority, we are concerned about the landfill ban and its consequences. The landfill ban has been prepared for a long time. I am very pleased that it became part of the climate agreement, that it got its own point there, and that the broad opening of the ban was formalised in that way. Although some consequences arising from the introduction of such a ban may be problematic, it is important to say that the ban on landfills is an incredibly important and effective instrument of climate policy. The calculations made show that greenhouse gas emissions from landfill will be reduced by up to a third by 2016. So we know that treatment capacity is essential to achieve full climate impact. It says itself. It is expected, and it is quite correct, as the proposers point out, that there will be a lack of treatment capacity as the landfill ban enters into force. But the ban has been announced for a long time, and as a result, there is a lot of new combustion capacity during development and planning. Probably we will have enough treatment capacity in three to four years. That being said, we will, on the part of the majority and the Labour Party, stress the importance of the Government monitoring developments and taking further action to increase treatment capacity, if it turns out that it is necessary. A situation in which large quantities of waste are exported out of the country is not at all desirable. Then we are also concerned that a new assessment of the levy on the landfill of waste is absolutely necessary, and I am pleased that the Government will come back to that very question in the revised national budget for spring. So finally, the proposers are engaged in the producer liability regimes. They're important. They are concerned that the arrangements need to be reviewed and renegotiated. They're ten years old now, and it's already working on it. They have been evaluated, and I take it as a matter of course that that assessment is followed up and leads to the agreements being updated, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e3032	I have a little powdered again, even though I spent a lot on the predators! I want to thank the proposers for giving us the opportunity to discuss this today. I also think that the rapporteur should be in favour of a very tidy and thorough review. Waste policy is important. The ban on landfills is widespread, but for some parts of the country it poses some major challenges. If we see this in the light of what the rapporteur said, that the last time we discussed this in Stortinget, was early in the 1990s, I think Marthinsen is passive when she says thank you to the proposers for giving us the chance to discuss this. What we're doing today is discussing a Document No. Eight proposals in which a large minority, but a minority in this Chamber, want to give direction to waste policy. The answer from the Government is: No, this really has nothing to do with the Storting. We're going to solve this for ourselves. If we see this in context, I don't think it's entirely related. Me and the Progress Party believe that there is a need for a major and broad review of the waste policy, a review that I believe deserved the Government to invite active participation from the minority in the Storting. There are three cities that have good control, and have come very far, and from which we have much to learn. Unfortunately, only two of the three cities are run by the Progress Party. It's Fredrikstad and Oslo. In addition, I must mention Trondheim. These are cities that have come a long way in terms of biogas and district heating, and that can be a guide for those municipalities that now have to follow. I won't talk for long. I'll just say a little bit about exclusive. The Party of Progress is a party that is very concerned with market solutions, and market solutions should also be the rule in the waste industry rather than the exception. But we're not willing to go so far that we want to say that the possibility of granting exclusive rights should be removed. It's described in the setting. I want to point out both the combustion plant in Kristiansand, which is in place, and the combustion plant in Tromsø, which is about to be put in place, precisely because one had the opportunity to grant exclusive rights. Then it is hoped that local politicians will be able to choose cost-effective solutions anyway. However, until we have an alternative in place, the Progress Party believes that the possibility of exclusive rights must also be present in the future. Then I want to link a few very few comments to the producer liability system. It's not so much about combustion and the kind of thing, which is the main theme today. When, for example: in the case of car wrecks covered by this Directive, the situation is in the process of coming out of control. So a broad review of the producer liability system that applies to a whole range of different products is enough in place. I had hoped that the Stortinget would take part in that debate too, but we won't. However, there is reason to encourage the Council of State to carry out such a review. The representative Marthinsen says something important, that material recycling makes sense. There is a producer responsibility system, because recycling of materials does not only have the greatest impact on resources, but obviously has the greatest environmental impact. Therefore, it is important that the producer liability regimes function properly – not just because we have given responsibility to some private people, who, of course, we believe are reasonable – and that we take our responsibility and follow it up here.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e3049	I was actually going to say a lot of what Marianne Marthinsen said. We don't have to repeat ourselves all the way, at least not when it's getting late. I want to underline the need to improve waste prevention policy. It's not a simple matter. That's really a very big question. It's about our entire consumption culture. This is about economic growth policy. It's about what we consider to be productivity. And it's about our relationship to things and to the resources around us, our place in the world and about distribution policies, especially in relation to the international perspective. In these times of financial crisis where many politicians and countries are committed to trying to find a way out of it, the waste image should also be part of the discussion. How can we get to a new direction in the world that makes sure that we get a different consumption of earth’s resources? The way we live now is not sustainable. I want to address a few issues. One is related to biogas. It's very exciting what's going to happen when we get the deposit order. It's a very important act that's being taken, and as Marianne Marthinsen said, there's something we agreed on in the climate agreement, and everyone, except the Progress Party, wanted. I believe that it is also a good example that a no to something, can become a yes to something else, that climate and environmental policy with clear demands for an active state that is inside and says what you want, contributes to both innovation and transformation and new opportunities at the other end, also to making money. What we see now is that, among other things, new district heating installations are planned in many places as a direct consequence of the coming of the ban. We also see other types of initiatives that are very interesting. The trade union and Transport Workers' Association, among other things, have been very active to look at the possibility of using biogas from waste. Biogas has a CO2 reduction of 90 pst. and is a known technology today. Some buses are driven both in Sweden and Austria by biogas as a fuel. And as the representative Tord Lien was in the house, there is a project going on in Fredrikstad, which is properly run by the Progress Party. I am pleased that the Progress Party can also have a sensible policy in this field in between. There are six buses, a refurbishment car and some small cars going on biogas from what is called Frevar, i.e. Fredrikstad water, sewerage and renovation companies. The point is that when sewage treatment plants are built, they should be exploited. According to Stein Gulbrandsen of the Trade Union, who has contacted us a number of times about this, it is that if we control sewage sludge, food waste and wet organic agricultural waste for sewage tanks at sewage treatment plants, we will be able to operate all local heavy transport by biogas. Zero's environmental foundation is also very concerned about this. They believe that it is important to control this against heavy transport. That's especially where we can make use of this, because there's not enough biogas to put it into the entire fleet. Stein Gulbrandsen also says that such a policy could reduce CO2 emissions by about 3 pst. In addition, it has other good environmental effects, such as the loss of particulate emissions and low noise buses, which are also important – we have a noise target that is very ambitious, and which is difficult to reach, at least with the growth in normal car traffic that we see. So I hope that the Minister for the Environment will take a closer look at that initiative and how we can get extra attention to that development. I would also like to mention that the members of the Red-Green Committee had a meeting with something called NICE, the Nordic Initiative Clean and Ethical, which could tell us that every day Frtex in the Oslo region collects 17 tons of textile waste – 17 tons! There are extreme quantities and say something about the consumption of clothes as well. The fashion industry and the textile industry are among the major environmental contaminants in the world, and we are concerned that we should also take some action in that field. It is also about working conditions for poor people in poor parts of the world. It will be exciting to see when the State Institute for Consumer Research will look at how we can use textile waste as a resource, how this develops. NICE should also be involved in the working group. The point is, at least, that a waste policy must not only be about how to recover the waste as a resource, but also about how to prevent the amount of waste.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e3074	First of all, I would like to thank the Christian People's Party for putting this matter on the agenda. I think it is important that we discuss this case complex. In the climate agreement, we confirmed that a ban should be imposed on the landfill of biodegradable waste. The government has announced that the deposit order will enter into force on 1 July next year. The Christian People's Party is firmly behind the ban on landfills and believes it can be an effective tool to reduce Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions – if too many exemptions are not granted. The background to the proposal we are discussing today is that the Christian People's Party is concerned that the Government is not using the possibility that the deposit ban gives us to review the use of the instrument. The waste industry indicates a significant lack of alternative treatment capacity from the time the landfill ban enters into force. As of 1 July 2009, nearly 1 million will be allocated. tons of waste had to be treated differently from landfill. This capacity does not exist today. According to Waste Norway, there are plans for the development of new treatment capacity for approx. 600000 tonnes of waste up to 2011. With a need of 1 million. tonnes from 1 July there is a shortage of 400000 tonnes. Unless the Government now comes up with proposals for better framework conditions, the likelihood is high that the deposit ban will lead primarily to large-scale exports of waste to the rest of the world. There will also be a large number of applications for exemption from the ban, which will once again undermine the very purpose. It is true that we are already exporting waste from Norway to our neighbouring country corresponding to one trailer load per hour – every hour per day. The government is aware of this, for they themselves write this in the 2009 government budget. But it doesn't help to be aware of it, you also have to do something about it. The words ‘Better lead was than after quick’ mean that I fit well in this case. The Christian People's Party believes that the introduction of the landfill ban should be exploited to launch a large-scale effort on waste-based energy production in Norway. The prohibition of landfill should be a trigger for increasing the effort to use energy, sort out, biological treatment and material recovery of our waste. This requires more competitive framework conditions than those we have today. It is against this background that we want a comprehensive review of Norwegian waste policy – in the light of the climate challenges we face, and the landfill ban. We believe that competitive framework conditions should be established for environmentally friendly waste treatment and that the waste regime should be revised in the light of climate policy objectives that we have today and that we did not have in that way in the 1990s. The exclusive right to treatment of waste must be maintained as an instrument for building up the necessary treatment capacity in Norway. I also believe that we need to assess quota regulation or export bans on mixed municipal waste in order to ensure the exploitation of resources in Norway. Increased use of producer responsibility in new industries and product groups should also be considered. In the suspension, the government parties refer to a review in the 2009 government budget. In my opinion, this is far from a comprehensive review of waste policy. Rather, it is a random selection of relevant waste policy issues without putting them in a wider context. As has been said earlier in this debate, we have not had a systematic and comprehensive review of waste policy since the 1990s, when Thorbjørn Berntsen was Minister for the Environment. The question will then be: shall we wait and see, or act now? I have to say that I look forward to the statements of the Council of State, because I hope and believe that the Council of State has an involvement in this area, which he has in a number of other areas, and that he will use the commitment to facilitate better framework conditions in an important area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e3093	Proper waste management in Norway through source sorting and recycling of waste could save society from significant resources while providing considerable climate and environmental benefits. The waste policy in Norway must be based on a principle that waste can be converted into material for re-use in new products and energy production. The material recovery provides raw material to the industry and the incineration of residual waste gives energy that can be used in district heating plants. Hopefully we can use waste for transport in the future. The key here will be to think holistically to get an efficient and environmentally friendly management from the consumer to the final stage of treatment. In this cycle, it will be important to take out any environmental toxins through destruction or safe landfilling. One main problem is that even if the amount of waste is treated better now than before, the total amount of waste is significantly increased. This hangs in pairs with increased consumption. The centre part assumes that growth is not about consuming more, but about managing better. The huge amounts of waste that we as society produce are also a reminder of our large consumption growth. The earth does not have the power to give the rest of the world its inhabitants the same well-being that we have. It obliges us to reduce our consumption. But all the time we choose to go on with this consumption, we must at least ensure a treatment of the waste that does not increase the environmental impact of our consumption than it needs to be. It is therefore important to introduce measures to delineate consumption trends. These may include measures such as the collection for repair and reuse, the recycling of building materials, the sale of discarded articles and the dressing through non-profit organisations and the reduction of unnecessary use of packaging and disposable equipment. The centre party of my municipalities must be responsible for the renovation of the household waste. This will ensure a good service for households throughout Norway. We believe that this is the most environmentally sound and cost-effective method of waste management. Many municipalities are co-owners of intercommunal waste management companies specialising in waste management. We believe that household waste is an important societal task in line with other important societal tasks, such as: Water and sewerage, and we believe that municipalities should have the possibility to be co-owners of municipal or inter-municipal food waste companies. In the districts, the collection of food waste could be coordinated with the collection of household waste, and it would not be appropriate to run two parallel runs. It will also help to keep the costs of delivering the waste down, which will in turn benefit businesses and consumers. So waste is a resource that we need to know how to use, and good use of waste is good sustainable thinking.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e3106	Natural resources are limited. Of course, as the world’s population increases and more is promised out of poverty, the pressure on natural resources also increases. I agree with the SV representative – it is actually not possible to continue with our high resource consumption and at the same time satisfy the need for a growing and increasingly rich population globally. Therefore, we have to apply current production and consumption patterns so that resources are used much more efficiently. With this curtain, waste policy is very important. Waste that is only put on a landfill is waste, there are resources on the way, and it is a burden on the natural environment. A waste policy target should therefore be as far as possible to eliminate all traditional landfills. There has been a broad political consensus on reducing waste landfills in Norway. And a lot has happened, not least many municipalities have done a lot to increase re-use, recover and reduce landfill. As a result, the share of waste into landfill has been reduced. But then we are in the situation that the total amount of waste has grown so much that the total amount of waste deposited has also increased. Norway is therefore far from the level at which we should be. The introduction of the ban on landfilling of biodegradable waste, which should perhaps already have been in place, but which we expect to come, is important, but the Left believes that we should consider whether traditional landfills can be defended at all. So it's true that the government parties have pointed out in the hall today, that we have a waste hierarchy, and it's quite sacred, with reuse, recycling, and then it's: what do you do with the end? But it's actually so that eventually most products end up due to material fatigue as waste, and they end up in an incinerator, as well as that food that we've begun to eat, or that's spoiled, cannot be eaten again. So we end up with waste that eventually ends up in – preferably – a closed composting plant or in an incinerator. There's also a resource, and that's what we're talking about today. Energy use of the heat and gas from these and similar modern plants is important to achieve the climate-required conversion from electricity to heat, from fossil oil and gas to sustainable solutions. There are several examples of some municipalities that have done so – in Fredrikstad, buses run on waste gas, and we also know that the same is planned here in Oslo when the landfill ban comes into force. This is sustainable fuel from waste and an example of proper waste policy being also a good climate policy. But the potential for such solutions is so incredibly much greater. The Left therefore believes that better framework conditions and incentives for the energy use of waste are needed in order to optimise the use of resources. Competition conditions for Norwegian operators in relation to the rest of the EU/EEA area need to be more equivalent in the area of waste. For example, Sweden today has significantly better framework conditions for the energy use of waste than Norway, and we know that other EU countries provide direct support for, for example, waste. generation of electricity from waste, which is currently not sufficiently stimulated in Norway. In particular, we know that the design of the combustion fee may be hampered. Therefore, the Left supports the proposal for a public investigation to carry out a comprehensive review of Norwegian waste policy in the light of the climate challenges and, based on this, to promote a case for the Stortinget with proposals to improve the framework conditions for more environmentally adapted waste management. The left wants Norway to be a leading country in environmental protection policy. On waste policy, we are following. I find it disappointing that the government parties do not agree with the opposition's proposal to look at waste policy in conjunction with, among other things. climate work – a work in which there is broad agreement on the objectives, but where we know that the use of the instrument is not sufficient to meet the objectives. The government has also promised to make its own case on waste policy. The majority refers to the mention of waste policy in the State budget, which cannot be said to be a good enough review to adapt the instruments so that the objectives we agree on both in the area of waste and not least in climate policy can really be achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e3123	Let me also start by thanking Line Henriette Holten Hemdal and the Christian People's Party to put this matter on the agenda. Waste policy is not of the environmental policy issues I have the power to engage particularly strongly in personal, so far, but it is an area where an excellent office has done a really good job. The government presented a number of views on this in a broad review of the waste policy in the 2009 State budget. Of course, we will also consider this whole field on an ongoing basis. We will come back to Stortinget with the assessments we make, including new policy initiatives. And it's a matter of course, as the opposition puts it, that you see this in relation to climate policy. Waste policy and climate policy are not the same, but they are closely linked. Now a lot of positive has happened. Since 1995, recovery rates in Norway have increased from 50 pst. for nearly 70 pst. For a large number of waste types, we have our own business-run return systems, where very good results have been achieved. It is positive that the industries themselves take responsibility. It is also very important that hazardous waste be properly handled, and it is therefore positive that the proportion of hazardous waste going to unknown management goes down, including in some areas of electronic waste collection, where there has been a high rate of growth in the return arrangements. But the fundamental problem in the whole area, not least the representative Hedstein of the Left, is that even if we have success in very many of the waste policy areas, it does little to help when the actual amount of waste is drastically increasing. We've come a long way in recovery. We have good arrangements in many areas. But there is a dramatic growth in all amounts of waste as a result of economic growth. Of course, it may temporarily change at a time of financial crisis, but it will not change the underlying trends towards increasing volumes of waste. Therefore, in the future, the Government will have an ever-increasing focus on waste prevention. In the government's draft government budget, it's set at $3 million. kr to a waste prevention project where we will try out and assess different measures and instruments. Several of the parties – SV, Left and others – have been involved in this in the debate, and we will do what we can to prevent waste. But we probably have to admit that it's going to be a very demanding and difficult field, where it's not obvious what the grips are to get it into. The more important it is to have a close dialogue between government and greatness to look at what can be done, and to involve all the good forces in the rest of society in a high opinion on how to achieve it. The instruments of the waste policy we have today that will stimulate the selection of the best environmental solutions for the management of waste are among others. taxes on the final treatment of waste, producer liability schemes for some waste fractions and direct regulation of landfills and treatment plants. Several speakers have raised the ban on the landfill of biodegradable waste in the debate. It shall enter into force on 1 July 2009. And like No Marte Thorkildsen and several others have been involved: it's a very important operation that both brings down the amount of waste and will stimulate innovation and economic development in alternative areas. It is very gratifying that there has been a broad political consensus on this ban, and I am pleased that we are now implementing it. The landfill ban will contribute to significant reductions in greenhouse gas emissions from landfills, while providing better framework conditions for the use of waste resources. State pollution control is developing guidance material to assist in the interpretation of the legislation. It will be available in the new year 2009. There is a strict practice with regard to exemptions from the ban, and only a derogation will be granted where there is a plan to solve the problems over time, and not – so to speak – only to those who are the worst in the class, at the latest outside or do nothing. We are aware that there will be a lack of national treatment capacity when the landfill ban enters into force. However, there is significant new combustion capacity during development and planning. The main challenge therefore appears to be to stimulate increased material recovery and biological treatment of waste. I will follow developments and look at the need for further action to increase recovery rates and national treatment capacities. I think that the biggest challenge is to reduce the total amount of waste in society, and look forward to a debate on how we can jointly manage it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e3150	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e3153	The Council of State was concerned about the importance of involving Stortinget, and then it is a little paradox that he himself has written a letter to the Committee and said that he does not want us to have a case on this. But that's not what my question is about. These include: The representative of Marthinsen is involved in both environmental and resource effects, depending not only on the recovery of the waste, but also on the recovery of the waste — for example. Of course, recycling is better than recycling, which is better than energy recovery. Biogas is a more high-quality form of new energy than energy recovery through combustion into district heating. And this is the Council of State in at the very end of its article. Then I wonder what strategies the Council of State will use not only to recover as much waste as possible, but also to recover the waste in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e3160	Let me first say that nothing is more distant from my political point of view than not wanting to involve Stortinget, on the contrary: I want to come to Stortinget – I kept saying – as often as possible. I am at least open to every opportunity to come to the Stortinge to discuss this and other environmental policy issues. I think it is very important that environmental policy issues are high on the Storting agenda, and will, of course, ensure that waste policy will be reported in a series of documents to the Stortinget, budget proposals and in other ways, in the future, so that the Stortinget will have the opportunity to discuss it. I also share the view of the so-called waste hierarchy that Tord Lien here explains, about what are the preferred handling forms, and what is the second best and third best and fourth best. I have to ask to come back to a more specific policy on how we will succeed in getting the maximum out of reuse, and then recovery, and then burning.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e3167	Now I know how the term ‘string’ can be understood when SV uses it in criminal matters. But anyway, we know that when the deposit order enters on July 1st next year, we're going to experience that we have a number of regions that aren't well enough prepared for this. Then my question is, what does the word «string» mean when the Council of State uses the term «string» in relation to granting a derogation? Does that mean that someone will perceive it as worthwhile postponing installation capacity in place, or will this cost dearly for those who do not have the capacity in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e3174	First, do I know a blunder of irony when it comes to the issue of strict criminal policy on the part of the SV? Let me just say that in one area where I have been responsible for doing something, the policy has become considerably more stringent. This government is taking a completely different and more stringent approach to all anti-corruption measures in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Affairs. When we say strict, we mean strict, including strict penalties – just so there is no doubt about it. So to the question. It's a very relevant question that we don't now resort to a practice where those who are late do the least possible and stretch the shortest, get the best conditions. Therefore, it is essential that when exemptions are granted, they are to be given in accordance with a strict plan that tells exactly how to meet the objective.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e3181	In the spring of 2006, I had an interpellation with then State Councillor Helen Bjørnøy, where the focus was increasing the amount of waste as a result of the economic growth we are part of, and what measures the Government would put into this field. Unfortunately, this interference did not lead to so much from the Government. In his speech, the Council of State says that he is aware that we will have several tonnes of waste for which we do not have landfill or treatment services when the landfill ban comes into force. My question to the Council of State is: What action will the Council of State take to ensure that the ban on landfills has the desired effect?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e3188	At first I think the basic thing we're facing is getting a decoupling of economic progress and growth from the amount of waste. We have similar problems in a lot of other areas. In other words, how can economic progress be decoupled from increased energy use and climate change emissions? All ideas about it will be received with all possible thanks. In the case of the slightly clever claims that the government is not doing anything, I have to say that I do not hear the brilliant ideas about how this can be done in an easy way either in Stortinget. If I had heard them, I would be the first to put them into life. I can promise. I think we are facing a major problem that we should jointly discuss – how to avoid an ever-increasing amount of waste as a result of the economic progress and growth that we want for the rest of humanity, even though perhaps we have reached a peak where the need is not as great with us as with everyone else.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e3195	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox After it had been called to vote, said [[Footage, see page 1057]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e3204	The increase shall now amount to a vote on cases No. 1-11 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e4684	The Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e4702	It is the Progress Party and the Right that are behind the setting of this Roman number. The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced support. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e4724	Here, too, it's the propulsion part and the right behind the setting. The Christian People's Party has announced support. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party are opposed. And so does the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e4746	The foreground part and the right part are behind the setting. The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced support. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e5455	During the debate Knut Gjerde presented the following proposal on behalf of the Progress Party: ‘The decision asks the Government to base its further work on computer games on the absence of a sectoral tax.’ The proposal is addressed to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e5488	During the debate Karin S. Woldseth presented the following proposals on behalf of the Progress Party: ‘The Government asks for a review of the scheme of State scholarships and guarantee receipts to artists with a view to halving the costs of the scheme in 2009’.» Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e5515	During the debate Peter Skovholt Gitmark put forward the following proposals on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the introduction of environmental taxes or other measures to ensure that the consumption of plastic bags is reduced in a sustainable way.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e5542	During the debate Peter Skovholt Gitmark put forward the following proposals on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a comprehensive action plan for the conservation of the North Atlantic wild species.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e5569	During the debate, Mr Lien presented the following proposals on behalf of the Progress Party: ‘The Government asked the Government to explore the possibility, in cooperation with local actors, of establishing smolt and hatchery facilities related to Tanaelva.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e5596	During the debate Line Henriette Holten Hemdal has put forward the following proposals on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left: ‘The budget calls on the Government as soon as possible, and at the latest in the context of the 2009 Revised National Budget, to propose schemes providing stronger economic incentives, including VAT or tax deductions, loan schemes, direct support or similar to private owners of preserved buildings to strengthen the maintenance of the buildings.’;» There will be a vote between this proposal and that of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e5623	During the debate, Mr Lien presented the following proposals on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right: ‘The Council asks the Government, by the spring 2009 session at the latest, to promote the evaluation of the predatory game policy and the 2003–2004 rapprochement, in the light of the challenges faced by the population in the predatory game zones, and proposals for action in line with this.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the setting up of the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e5650	During the debate Ivar Kristiansen has put forward the following proposals on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left: ‘The government is asking through a public inquiry to conduct a comprehensive review of Norwegian waste policy in the light of the climate challenges, and on this basis to promote a case for the Stortinget with proposals to improve the environment-friendly waste management framework.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-04.ana.ud894e5681	There is no record. Does anyone wish to speak under paragraph 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
