ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07-2.ana.ud1906e30	On the same day as the evaluation of general teacher training was presented in 2006, I and several others took part in a debate with the then State Council of Øystein Djupedal at the NRK. Then the then State Council announced a so-called national effort to get the general teacher training on track. Since then it has been quiet. We have not heard so much more of the national effort or of what the Government actually plans to do to correct the content and follow-up of the general teacher training. SOMETHING had a lot of appeals against the education. Something was about how they were exercised, that is, the content of them, but above all, NOCUT had many negative comments to make when it came to the management and governance of the institutions. It was clear - and still is - that institutions have a poor overview of the issue of non-response. There is a lot of evidence that more attention needs to be paid to the management of institutions. There is little transparency, and many believe that this poses far greater challenges for general teacher education than just four-year or five-year education. The question that is useful to ask in this interview debate is, of course, what the government is doing to follow up on what was pointed out in the NOCUT evaluation. It also turns out that the prerequisites for good teacher training vary greatly from institution to institution. The reason for that, of course, is simple. There is varying governance of institutions, and there is also varying size of institutions. Many believe that it is easier to operate in a wider professional community than it is to operate in a small professional community. Then in 2004 we received a new general teacher training. It was produced on the basis of previous evaluations, where it became clear that there was a particular need for two things: one was greater professional immersion, and the other was more specialisation. Then it turns out when we get the NOCUT report in 2006, that the educational institutions have largely failed to follow the education that came. So you still have the same thing as before and you don't let the new education come. There is also a lot of reason why you cannot see so much more specialisation and professional immersion among the students in the 2006 evaluation than you could do in the 2002 evaluation. One of the most serious things that the report provides feedback is the great decline in general teacher education. There's a lot of variation. It varies between 11 pst. and 51 pst. in the case of certain teaching establishments. 51 pst. non-response! So more than half of the students are falling off. Most people fall from early in the study, usually during the first year, and in particular many fall away from the first meeting of practice. There is also some of the points that the evaluation points to, that the practice is high. This means that there is a difficult transition between theory and practice and that the connection to the field of practice is too weak. What's alarming, as well as the fact that the dropout is high, is that institutions have very little control over the causes of the dropout, who falls from, and what to do to get the students back into school again. And why is this serious? Well, it's serious for several reasons. The institutions have little or no overview of whether it is the best or the worst students who fall from, the most or the least motivated, because there are many reasons why you fall out of a study. You don't know much about why they're falling off. You also know little about what to do to bring them back to the study again. Are there simple arrangements that are needed? Or is it a larger arrangement that needs to be made to get them back? When there's so much apostasy, it also tells a story that we're going to have an increased problem with recruiting new teachers in the years to come. Not only do we have a basic need for recruitment -- and maybe even a little bit of trouble recruiting all of the people we want -- but when we also know that the ones we get into the general educational institutions, to a large extent also fall from the way, we have a double challenge. It is most timely for the interpellant to ask questions about what the Government is doing to follow up the management and governance challenges of the institutions, and what steps should be taken to follow up the issues pointed out by the NOCUT evaluation. We can't wait another two years and wait for a new teacher training until we do something about the governance challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07-2.ana.ud1906e47	I would like to start by thanking Gunnar Gundersen for addressing a very important topic in his interview today: teacher training and measures to strengthen today's teacher training. We know that teacher training is probably one of the most important education we have in Norway today. The teacher is the most important resource we have in school. The teacher’s competence, together with the competence of the school management, is crucial to the quality of the Norwegian school. We also know that the Norwegian school today does not have enough power to cancel out the social differences. We have a school that in many ways is involved in strengthening these. We also know that countries that we like to compare with, for example. Finland, is good at using the school system to balance social differences. We also know that too many children leave school today without having learned to read and write properly, or without having a good enough sense of numbers, and this is serious. We also know that the teachers, through their education, learn what they learn to learn away. It is important that we have an education that is relevant to practice and that binds theory and practice together in a good way. It is important that we build up under the leadership of the different institutions. It is necessary to think about teacher training along two paths - the short-term and the long-term. First to the short-term: we depend on the fact that teachers who have graduated this spring and next spring are good, and have had an education that is relevant to the life to which they are going to go to school. We have, as others have experienced, a NOCUT evaluation that shows in many ways that we have major challenges in Norwegian teacher training, but we also know that the current Council of State and the former Council of State have addressed these issues, and local teachers have addressed the issues and further developed teacher training during the close follow-up of the Department - as Torah Aasland has explained earlier. For example, I can. refer to Tromsø, where a research school has been started. All the teachers are going through this research school. An internal evaluation project has also been launched in the field of teacher training and an external project with the University of Tromsø to review how to improve teacher training in the short and long term. I am very pleased that the Council of State is following up the different learning institutions in the way she does, and it is important that the measures in the plans are implemented in a good and constructive way. The NOCUT evaluation shows that we have many challenges in Norwegian teacher education. One of them is that you get a good and clear level of leadership. The drop-out rate in teacher training is too high, the average drop-out rate is probably about 40 pst. We need to get a very clear professional pressure on teacher training. In the case of teacher training, it is important that there is close cooperation between the educational institution and the local school and that there is a good follow-up of the students after completion of education. As I initially discussed, it is important to follow two lines in this debate. One is the immediate one, which is well initiated by the current Council of State and by the former Council of State Øystein Djupedal. A few days ago, the Committee held a seminar on teacher training, including: Astrid Søgnen, a representative from the Municipality of Oslo, said that it was important to hold the breath and take time to see how to get good teacher training in the long term. That's what this government does with a big message that's expected around the turn of the year. It is absolutely necessary that in the future we receive a teacher training that is so good that we recruit the very best of us for this training. We had the last change in teacher training about six years ago, but that's not how we can keep going. It can't be that we get a teacher training to be changed by each new government. Kristin Clemet presented plans for a teacher education that we now regrettably have to go in and change. This does not create stability, and teacher training continues to be the subject of debate among politicians and among people else. It is necessary that we now, with the big message coming, have a broad and comprehensive discussion of how we can best create a future teacher training.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07-2.ana.ud1906e75	I would also like to thank the inter-pellant for addressing an important topic and an important debate. There is good reason for impatience in this matter. The former Council of State - as we have heard referred to earlier - moved out quickly when the evaluation was presented and promised action. We've seen it a little bit more. There has been no lack of opportunity to seize. The opposition, in its budgetary work and in its proposals for representatives, has repeatedly put forward many good proposals for action that can be taken, but unfortunately all have been voted down. NOKUT's evaluation of teacher training has shown us that we do not have as good a teacher as we should have. This is very serious both for Norwegian school and for the newly educated teachers. The teacher is the most important success factor in school. Several parties have joined in to extend teacher education to five years. A proposal from the Left on this is currently under consideration in the Committee, and the Christian People's Party has not yet concluded. But we'll warn you against thinking that just one is adding an extra year, one will have found the final solution to how we can get the teacher education we want. Too often the solution in school has been to pee on with hours, believing that it's an easy way to improve school. No later than this year's budget, the Government has added five additional hours to the very smallest students. We believe that the most important thing to improve the school will be to focus on the hours we already have, and get enough teachers for these. Similarly, we believe that we should first of all look at the content of the four-year teacher education we have today. If it is to be completed by an additional year, it must be clearly formed as to what to fill that year and what to use it for. A fifth year must mean strengthening the steps we choose to take for the four already existing years. Only when we have that starting point, it could be fruitful to discuss the fifth year of study. One of the main points of the evaluation was the need to better link theory and practice. We know that many newly educated people feel unsafe in the classroom situation. One talks about the big practical joke when newly educated teachers meet the classroom for the first time on their own. That is why the Christian People’s Party has proposed the introduction of a mentoring system for newly educated teachers. It is not impossible to imagine models of how this can become a component of a five-year education. Getting feedback and recording on how a person acts, and implementing the classroom situation, believes the Christian People's Party will be able to make it easier and faster for the newly educated person to become safe on himself. In concrete terms, this means that all newly-trained teachers should be linked to an experienced teacher in the first year of work. Together with this mentor, they will also be able to discuss various issues and the mentor will be able to assist directly in teaching. In this way, we ensure that we take care of and pass on all the good knowledge with which experienced teachers sit, while at the same time making the transition from student life to classroom easier for the newly educated teacher. The time ahead will give us many opportunities to discuss teacher training. I look forward to the debate that will come when the government once submits its announced big message on this matter. We must soon be able to bring about a constructive debate that leads to results. It was referred to the seminar that the committee had, and how Astrid Sögnen asked us to breathe, in terms of what the future teacher training looked like. But I also remember that the same lady asked us to make quick changes in current teacher training, because the school needs good teachers, next year and this year, who are educated. That means we can't just wait for a future teacher's education. We also need to put in short-term measures to do something about the teacher training we have today. A debate where the opposition and the position together can manage to find good solutions to improve teacher training is what we need. The debates that we have had so far, where the opposition proposes and the position refers to something far ahead, just lead to that we can't get anywhere. It is not the teachers who earn it, it is not the teachers' institutions who earn it, nor is it the school - or the Stortinget - that earns it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07-2.ana.ud1906e103	This debate is taking place in a slightly humiliated tone, in the sense that it is not as good as it is, but everyone agrees that it will be better. The teachers I met through my school were not depressed. They knew where they came from, and they knew what they wanted. What's probably the problem is that we have a considerable joint responsibility to build the status of Norwegian teachers -- I'm talking about both those who are teachers and those who are general teachers. I want to go straight to the general teachers, as I see it, is the main point here. First, we're going to have a debate later on the length of education, and I'd like to draw attention to one thing from the left: the left has no plans to just add up to one more year of something similar to what we have now. The left's reasoning about five years, when we get that far, is a total ambition on behalf of what teachers need to be able to stick with in the time that comes. I have heard from the Education Association in Norway that the educational federations across Europe now believe that there is no way in the years to come, if one is to be good enough, without the five years in a master's degree. I will not go into detail about it, but both immersion in science and pedagogics and, not least, practicing takes time. But I'll leave it, because we'll get back to that. Instead, I'm going to make Astrid's words at the seminar that the committee had last Friday, mine. Then she gained the right to speak on behalf of the school owners, and she's the school owner, the headmaster of the big floor we have in Oslo. She said the following, and it will be my challenge to the Council of State now: What will the Council of State do to ensure immediately that the framework for general teacher training is reviewed, and that it is linked to the promise of knowledge? This was one of the themes that have been touched on by previous speakers, but I would say it quite explicitly: it is to initiate a rapid work, to be absolutely sure that there is coherence between the framework plan, the assumptions of the Knowledge Lift and the descriptions of the skills and objectives of the Knowledge Lift. And the promise of knowledge is not just about having the skills, but about being good enough to make sure that you can follow students in such a way that you know they have the skills. It was in that context, which has been mentioned earlier, that the Municipality of Oslo made a 50-hour course, to make sure that everyone who comes out has all the practical skills with it. Challenge No. 1: What has been done to ensure that the framework plan is in practice consistent with the Knowledge promise as regards the requirements to be met by Norwegian students? Secondly, Astrid Søgnen said that it is necessary to enter completely systematically and think about student careers. It means translated into another type of language that you have to have a kind of guidance that makes people get through it quite effectively. In the past, it has been identified as a topic in the quality reform status report, the first phase, that there are some problems with short vocational training. Some of these problems are that we're not good enough for guidance. We've been working on guidance in high school. Of course, good guidance is equally important for students, whether they are engaged in professional training or they are engaged in professional training. It's absolutely necessary to make progress in what you're going to do. So the Search said as the third, and I'm going to make her words my own at this point as well: go now through all the study specializations, to make sure they're as good as we now assume they're going to be. That, she said, is what you immediately have to do if you're going to have ambitions that meet the school owners' expectations when they're going to accept teachers who are going to be in the course of the knowledge promise. The course is about perfectly clear goals for skills that students are going to master. Then we have to know that the teachers are also able to master the same skills, and not least how to learn how to master them. It's actually the most burning thing we can do. So you could say, well, it's a trick that you can start from a department. There is also a case that puts a great deal of pressure on the interpellant to deal with, that is, how to run the teaching institutions, through governance and management, to follow this up. But this is the test: is it now that the framework plan actually relates to the Knowledge Lift? There'll be a lot of talk around this if you don't have to click on such practical things. School owners must be able to expect, when society pays as much as it does on the promise of knowledge, and when we have these expectations, that this quality assurance will be started. This quality assurance is not the debate on tomorrow's teacher training; it is the debate on today's teacher training. There is a debate that does not intersect instead of a debate on what professional requirements you should have when you are admitted, or what kind of requirements you should have for how good you should be, but it is a debate that is about what you are actually offering in the course of your education. I have asked three concrete questions to the Council of State, and I hope these questions can be supported, either by that being done, or by the fact that it will be initiated with great pressure and tension, and with great commitment. These were my challenges to the Council of State in the debate here today. A little pressure was created during the debate on the Veterinary College, and now I am channeling it constructively here as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07-2.ana.ud1906e124	One prerequisite for learning is that you're safe -- that your head isn't filled with fear, for example. On 20 November last year, the Children's Rights Network of the Stortinge arranged the Question Time for children in the laying room. One of the girls who got to ask questions said the following: ‘Many young people and children who attend school each day have a secret to which they have no one to tell. Maybe they dare to tell the teacher, but the teacher they don't meet and don't know how to react. That is why it has to be part of teacher education, how to deal with it, both in terms of sexual abuse and when there are other forms of abuse.’ As a member of the Stortinges Children's Rights Group, a network of politicians from all parties here in the house, I am especially concerned with the rights of children. In an important debate on the content and quality of teacher training, I would like to highlight the need to discuss how both pre-school teacher training and teacher training can promote knowledge of the Children's Convention in general and about violence and sexual abuse against children in particular. In addition to motivation for learning and learning strategies, basic competences such as social and cultural competence are given priority. But in order to achieve the goal of ‘developing the basic skills and competences of all students in order to take an active part in the knowledge society’, we may be eager to fill the minds of those young people with expertise to care for those who have filled their heads with other things. Last year, there were two important reports that I would like to say a little about: NOVA Report 20/07, Violence and Abuse against Children and Young People, and the report ‘Knowledge gives courage to see and feel safe to act’, published by the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress. Both reports should be read by the departments concerned, not least by the Ministry of Knowledge. The scope study from NOVA is, unbelievably, the first Norwegian study of the extent of family violence and sexual abuse against children in Norway. The study was carried out by Svein Mossige and Kari Stefansen, on behalf of the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality - following an original proposal from SV. Over 7 000 high school graduates have responded. The report found, fortunately, that the fewest young people have been exposed to it, sail if many - too many - have been so. The report reveals that living conditions and sex are risk factors, and that experience with sexual abuse increases the risk of a number of serious consequences: maritime murder attempts, maritime damage and eating disorders, degenerative behaviour, problems related to sexuality in the form of early sexual onset, having sex against payment, more sexual partners, forcing others to have sex as well as mental problems in the form of low self-esteem, anxiety, depression and dissociation. I am not able to refer the figures in the survey, but it seems important to highlight a point in this regard: the survey has been conducted among high school graduates. It seems fairly obvious that it should have been done by students in the early stages in order to get a more comprehensive picture. After all, we know that the drop-out rate among young people who have difficulties is much higher than among other young people. The NKVTS report ‘Knowledge gives courage to see and protect to act’, initiated and co-financed by Redd Barna, came last year. It didn't get as much attention as it deserved. The report demonstrates that teachers, preschool teachers and child protection educators do not have sufficient knowledge of children’s rights, violence, and sexual abuse and conversational methods. This may result in the children who are exposed not being seen and thus not getting the help they need. The report shows that the majority of newly educated pedagogues do not feel competent for some of the tasks they will be faced with and do not feel qualified to talk to children. The authors write: ‘Teachers and pre-school teachers are in the particular situation that they see children daily and over time. It allows them to observe children’s well-being, changes in behaviour, signs of injury and other signals that may indicate whether their children are living in a difficult situation. If teachers, pre-school teachers and others working with children are unable to interpret the different signals of children, there is a risk that they will consider the difficulties of children based on individual explanations, such as learning or concentration difficulties, rather than looking for reasons of the child’s life situation. Very few reports of child protection concerns about children exposed to violence and sexual abuse come from schools and kindergartens.’ The NKVTS report contains several concrete proposals: According to the Law on Universities and Higher Education, the Ministry of Knowledge can assign specific responsibilities to individual institutions for specific disciplines. KD may also provide for specific subjects up to a maximum of 20 study credits to be included in a degree. Authors believe that KD should consider addressing educational institutions in the light of the above provision. Furthermore, they propose to implement the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child in Education. The authors also propose that a specific subject on children exposed to violence and abuse be included in the framework plans for general teacher training and pre-school teacher training. With regard to all education, they believe that a certain number of study credits should be set aside to ensure that the subject is given adequate attention, and they propose the implementation of practice and skills training in education, and that the study should provide students with adequate input into how they can cooperate and with whom they can cooperate when they meet vulnerable children. I would like to ask the Committee and the Council of State to also take account of these recordings.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07-2.ana.ud1906e152	One of the most pressing problems in the field of teacher training is the recruitment of higher education institutions conducting this professional training. Indeed, the situation at the institutions is such that in the near future, university lecturers will reach retirement age. This makes the work of finding the best and most capable of becoming a teacher is very important in the coming decades. Skilled teachers are essential to getting skilled teachers and an even better school. Then we have to pick up the most competent lecturers with an interest in the field from primary and secondary school. The paradox is that becoming a lecturer requires a higher level of competence than being a lecturer in primary and secondary school, but wages are lower. A lecturer of ten years' service has to expect to go down in pay with something equivalent to approx. NOK 25 000-40000 per year. years. This makes it very difficult to recruit university lecturers among teachers in primary and secondary school. So a lecturer who goes to work as a lecturer in one of the teacher's educations, he has to expect to go down to pay, not to go up. Can the Council of State sit and see that it is so not attractive to become a lecturer? Of course, I am fully aware that the framework for the salary position of individual jobs is established between the social partners after negotiations. However, it is important to ensure the recruitment of teaching and research personnel to universities and colleges. We must have the best to teach those who are going to teach our children. It may not only be up to wage negotiations or institutions to assess which pay and working conditions are the most competitive. This is a serious matter that will have major consequences. Then to the width of teacher training. The general teacher training institutions have a responsibility to train teachers in all compulsory subjects. Now it seems that the University of Stavanger will complete the music training in general teacher education. A person may ask questions both by the legality and the wisdom of such a decision. Can the training be referred to as general teacher training? And what will happen to the subject when one takes away the education in the subject? Primary school teachers are incredibly central to the building of basic culture. Music and song have long roots in primary school and have always been a subject of their own. UNESCO has carried out a survey in 60 countries in the field of artistic training. It shows that music, drama and art in school make the students better in mathematics and language. Furthermore, kids become more creative, more active and gain greater confidence. I hope that the Council of State takes this challenge seriously. General teacher training must be offered in all compulsory subjects of primary school. Over time, I think there will be dramatic consequences for teacher competence in the region if teacher training is lacking in a subject. Finally, I would like to ask the Council of State to include the message that teacher training means offering in all compulsory subjects when she is about to improve general teacher training.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07-2.ana.ud1906e169	First, I want to give some commendation to the interpellant, who has put the search light on the quality of teacher training. It has now been an evaluation, and in this regard I take the floor in the case. Kids are the future, at least it's called. Therefore, it is important to ensure that good quality is available throughout the training chain in a child’s life. It is unfortunately a fact that too many abuses occur within the home's four walls. Working with children involves a great deal of responsibility. The kindergarten is often the place where children can express their fears, and on several occasions it is the employees in the kindergartens who see the child and can report when something is wrong. Therefore, it is important to talk about competence and education in a broader context. I need to pay tribute to all those who work in kindergartens and schools for the amazing job they do. We have a lot of great pedagogues in Norwegian school. When discussing improving teacher training, it should not be understood that teachers are too poor, but that there is a desire to improve their skills. I am pleased that the Council of State has confirmed that the Government is taking this most seriously, and is doing the work well. In the big news coming, I'm going to ask for a stronger focus on children's rights. I would also like to ask that pre-school teacher training be assessed. Employees in kindergarten and school should have knowledge of the UN Children's Convention, of children's rights to say when something happens at home and school. It's not enough for a teacher to be professionally capable-- just. Teachers I've talked to tell you that they have to spend a lot of time, for example. The math class to calm down the students before they're at all able to accept knowledge of the subject. There is a need for skilled preschool teachers in kindergartens who know children's rights, and skilled pedagogues are needed in Norwegian schools who see the whole human being. The rights of children should be included as a subject in teacher training and not to talk about the use of the Internet by children, which is a large area where greater competence is required. The everyday life of children is filled with many impressions, and it is important that safe and competent adults are present in the everyday lives of children and young people. As the representative of Thorkildsen said, the Stortinget has begun to sweep at its own door. We cannot claim teachers unless the Storting itself takes the children's rights seriously. That is why I am very pleased that the Stortinget has a child rights group in work. There we will ensure that in the future we put the search light on children's everyday lives and children's rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07-2.ana.ud1906e184	When there is a big message about teacher training, there will probably be a lot of debate in Stortinget. At least we see that it's a pretty broad commitment. But what was my point was why you're going to make it so hard. It was actually the daily and regular follow-up of the results we have, and the information you have in the sector, I was looking for if you followed up. All the questions about the length of the education, etc. I'm sure we'll take when that time comes, but here it was a question of filling the four years that you're now actually having, with content and meaning, and there's the NOCUT report that there are some significant challenges. I have noticed that in the world we are now, in the political world, one is very busy discussing budgets, intentions and such things, but when the results come, one is not very concerned about it. It's in many ways in conflict with the world I come from, where it's the results that count. It's like, as Dørum said, that the debate is going on -- I think he called it -- 'in a slightly bloated tone', because there's a lot here that we have to deal with. And if we are to have the best school in the world, I am quite convinced that we must also have the best teachers in the world, and so we must have the best teacher in the world. That's pretty demanding. Governments were involved in a good number of projects and trials that have been started. It's all right, and it'll generate a lot of good knowledge, but again, it wasn't about the results that you actually see with the non-response problem, with the ironing problem and the implementation problem, like the NOKUT report is about. The concrete way in which the institutions are run and run is at the bottom of the line. I think that I am far from sure that there are enough resources on the part of the Ministry, even if you call some conferences and meetings in between. This is to ensure the exchange of information between institutions and the actual use of the information contained therein. I also see that many colleges may be more concerned with becoming universities than they are with - as the NOCUT report clearly documents - analysing the data and studies they already have. It has also been mentioned that the target structure is quite complicated, and in such a system, the funding system becomes very dynamic. I'll ask the council that she directs a lot of attention to this. It is through the simple measures, I think, that there is also a considerable improvement in teacher training. There, the NOKUT report clearly demonstrates that there is a lot to win.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07-2.ana.ud1906e197	It did not seem that I had managed to convince the representative of Gundersen completely, but at least in part. Once again, I can assure you that this is a very large-scale job in the department. It's both what we do in the follow-up to the institutions, and that's what we're in the middle of with this message about teacher training, which it's actually not that long since we decided to put forward. We saw it as the only right thing to take the national dimension of this seriously. I will briefly comment on some of the speeches in the debate, which have also been very useful to me in my work on these issues. What was promised by my predecessor, Øystein Djupedal, when it came to the national virtue, was primarily directed to the institutions themselves, as it was their primary responsibility to follow up what is the framework and the legislation surrounding this. It's, as I said, made quite repressive. There have been quite a number of conferences and meetings with management and directors of the various institutions where these have been very important topics on the agenda. - So I mean, here you've taken hold. As for Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide's indication of the great apostasy, I very much agree with her. It is very worrying, and it is also very worrying that we do not actually know who we are losing. It may not be that problematic to lose those who are not suitable, but it is very problematic to lose those we would like to have gone on with. This has to do with both the situation of guidance and follow-up, and it has to do with quite a number of other factors. The University of Stavanger has now started an experiment in which, through the interview of new students, they try to go deeper into this. We hope to get some help in clarifying both the possible causes and the ability to follow up in a better way. I agree that this is probably only more knowledge that is needed, while at the same time doing what you can to improve the whole education, so that the motivation and follow-up are as much as possible. I can promise the representative Eriksen Soreide that you won't have to wait another two years. I'm pretty convinced that we're going to be able to get a complete grip before that, even though I also understand the sector itself, and not least the teachers, who think there have been many reforms, and perhaps rather want to take some action to correct what is clearly necessary. I thank you again for many good recordings. I will also refer to the contributions of both Inga Marte Thorkildsen and Eirin Fall on the rights of children, which are incredibly important. The most important balance we have as one of the challenges in what we put into teaching quality is the need, on the one hand, to be good in the individual disciplines and to be able to teach in the individual disciplines, and, on the other hand, to be able to see the whole human being, i.e. the whole child, whom Eirin Fallet was in, with all that implies social competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07-2.ana.ud1906e209	That is when the debate is on case No. 2 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07-2.ana.ud1906e226	Study time is an exciting and valuable time in very many ways. One has a certain degree of freedom, time to friends, the opportunity to get new friends and the opportunity to study subjects that you are finally interested in, and that you may not have been taken before. At the same time, the study period also places great demands on the individual. Many have poor finances and have to work side by side to make ends meet. There may be a large performance pressure, where the outcome of what a supplier delivers could have consequences for the opportunities that a sheep will have later in life. Therefore, the study period is also a time of considerable uncertainty. Norwegian Student Union has recently put the spotlight on students’ mental health services. The background for this is that in recent years we have received several alarming studies. They show that the incidence of psychiatric disorders is higher among students than in the general population. The study of health and well-being from the Student Society in Trondheim gives the main impression that most students are active and resource-intensive. However, there is a good deal to be done, especially in the context of the study situation. Most of the problems of well-being in the study situation can be related to uncertainty, concern, lack of structure in everyday life, unclear future plans and poor confidence. A significant proportion of students have symptoms of possible anxiety disorders. A whole of five Trondheim students are at high risk of developing anxiety disorders. In addition, many and an increasing proportion of students are in an economically vulnerable situation, and they are concerned about this. The study shows that it enhances the stress experience of the study situation for many. I want to stress that it is because we have the study from Trondheim that we use this as an example. There's nothing that suggests that it'll be different elsewhere. Another study, namely the 2005 Student Living Conditions Survey of the Statistical Centre, also shows that students have a lower mental health status than the rest of the population. One in four students in Norway is depressed about their own situation. 13 pst. students have poor mental health compared to 8 pst. by the population. In addition, if you look specifically at gender, there is a higher proportion of women with reduced mental health, both among students and among the general population. 16 pst. Of the female students with mental health impairment, this concerns 10 pst. by the women of the population. The corresponding differences for men are 12 pst. and 7 pst. The student age falls for most people along with the transition from youth to adulthood. This is also the time for a high risk of developing mental disorders. The possibility of individual rehabilitation is greatest if they are caught as early as possible. Societal economics is also clearly the most profitable. Although the study points to some elements, it is difficult to find a clear reason why the incidence of psychiatric disorders is higher among students than in the general population. But it is. However, I believe that some of the common features of student life, such as lack of social rights, performance pressures and poor finances, can be behind it. The Lifetime Survey of the Statistical Centre points to the fact that a distorted access to financial resources can explain much of the differences in mental health between people from different social layers. Although the direction of cause is unclear, it can be assumed that low income can lead to lower mental health. Most people find it very uncomfortable to lack the necessary financial resources to pay bills and buy the necessary things like food and clothing. In traditional poverty research, students have been withdrawn from the analysis because they are believed to be in a temporary low-income situation. Although this is true for most of the students, we can assume that the temporary life situation with a poor economy can give rise to poor mental health. Let me give you an example: a 20-year-old male student, according to SIFO's figures, will have consumer goods of the order of NOK 6 830. With a little bit of a simple headcount, there's only $1,730 left for rent. And if you've tried to study in the vicinity of big cities and other places, you know that it doesn't go up in the month. Another factor is that the study support is designed to reward those who manage the studies at a normal time by converting a larger part of the loan into scholarships. It intends to get a better student throughput. The Christian People's Party was for the introduction when it was introduced. One cannot exclude that such an incentive that is largely meant to be a carrot for the individual can become a ride, making it a significantly greater stress factor for someone. Of course, the causes of mental illness will vary from person to person. It is also interesting to look at different student groups and whether there are similarities within the group. In Sweden, the United Student Unions have looked at this a little. They point to, among others: that students with children are a group experiencing a high level of stress. They have little time to play on and have to plan, to a large extent, childcare, school and children’s leisure activities in order to link them with the studies and, where appropriate, additional work. Although mainly the same suffering is found among students as in the rest of the population, student relationships have more than any other competence in how the challenges of student life can be addressed. It makes their offers especially important for the students. Therefore, it is serious when many of the interactions appear to have to increase the holiday fee or increase the share of the psychosocial section or both in order to maintain a satisfactory offer to students without excessive self-payment. In the three largest cities, Oslo, Bergen, and Trondheim, students today offer conversations with psychosocial staff. The offer is classified as primary health service and related to the monitoring, counselling and treatment of minor disorders. The service can be said to be advisory in such a way that students with a need for longer treatment and studies are forwarded to the health system. Therefore, interconnections have a very important first line function. Another important element is that the interaction offers greatly benefit from the trust of the students. I think it is considered a low-threshold offer, where it is easy to contact. In addition, the proximity of students at each place of study is important. Co-operation is currently receiving funds through state transfers via health regions, moderated social security contributions and from the holiday tax. Figures from the interaction itself show that there is too much difference between interactions on the extent to which they receive state subsidies and the extent to which the students themselves have to pay through the holiday fee. I think there is a need to look at the models for allocating funds to psychosocial work. A fairer model for the allocation of funds for psychosocial work in student relations should be developed. The aim must be to ensure good student relationships, long-term and predictable operating conditions in order to ensure the operation of e.g.: psychosocial section. Another factor is that student relations today receive much less in reimbursement from public than other private and public actors, while at the same time caring for a very important societal task. It is frightening when studies from the Student Association in Oslo show that as many as a thousand students are not consulted at first contact with healthcare. We can't put human mental health on hold. Rapid treatment and conversation with psychosocial staff are essential to capture students who are at risk. Coordination must have a good and secure financial framework to provide all the assistance they need, preferably at the first consultation. It is important that students' mental health is taken seriously. I have therefore taken the initiative for this interpellation in Stortinget. In the interview text, I ask for answers as to whether the Council of State will take a closer look at the situation of students and their mental health, and whether the very models for allocating funds to psychosocial work among students are good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07-2.ana.ud1906e258	All the honor of the representative Dagrun Eriksen for her commitment to the well-being and mental health of students in particular. It is a very important theme. I'm very happy that she, as a politician, is engaged in it. This is mainly a matter for the Health Council, but it is clear that the student's situation is my responsibility. I would like to respond in this way: regional health establishments are to ensure that persons with permanent residence or residence in the health region are provided with specialist health services within and outside institutions. It says, among other things: in the law on specialist health services. Similarly, municipalities must provide the necessary health care for all residents or temporary residents of the municipality, cf. legislation on the health care of municipalities. These are the guiding principles of the organisation of healthcare in Norway and apply to students as to everyone else. At the universities of Oslo, Bergen and Trondheim, special student health services have been built under the auspices of student relations, as well as those offered by regional health companies. These are financed by earmarked funds entered in the basic subsidy to regional health enterprises, as well as by tariffs. The distribution of the grant to student relationships reflects the priorities of the service of individual interactions at the time of the construction of the offer. The grants for the three student relationships are a scheme that partly finances a well-functioning service, with special competence for students and their mental health. On this basis, the Ministry of Health and Welfare in its mission document to Health West has therefore requested that the grant for Student Cooperation in Bergen be increased by 1 million. kr in 2008. This is just meant to be an example of how it happens. This year's State Budget for the Ministry of Health and Welfare proposes the establishment of a group of representatives from the regional health companies, student associations, student organisations, the Municipal Councils of Central America, the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Health and Welfare. The team shall consider how to cooperate better in providing a good offer to the student population in both mental health and mental health protection, which is part of the specialist healthcare service. Regional health undertakings shall provide responsibilities and the responsibilities of local authorities for primary health services shall be taken into account. Work is anchored in the Ministry of Health and Welfare. The group is already working, and the work will be completed by 1 June 2008, i.e. this year. There are also other interventions for young people and students with mental health problems. A National Strategy Plan for Work and Mental Health 2007-2012 has been developed through the Roadmap for Mental Health 1998-2008. One of the measures in the strategy is the project ‘Studies with Support’, which started in Bergen. «Studies with support» is an offer to students and others with study skills who have mental health problems or problems. There is a cooperation between labour and welfare management, i.e. NAV, the Centre for the Preparation of Work and Student Cooperation in Bergen. The study programme consists of a preparatory programme to prepare students for higher education and to make the right choice of studies, and a support programme to follow up individual students according to their needs. Assistance is also provided in the transition between studies and work. ‘Supported studies’ focus, not on treatment, but on students’ resources. The project is financed by funds from the Pedagogical Health Action Plan and will be extended to all major study sites in Norway. With regard to the question of whether I want to look at the mental health of students and the model for allocating funds to psychosocial work among students, I assume that the representative Dagrun Eriksen here believes that the distribution of grants for student welfare from my department. The new law on student relations, which enters into force on 1 August 2008, which has recently been discussed by the Stortinget, has continued the autonomous role of student cooperation. The distribution of funds is based on the same principle that there is student democracy at the individual place of study which, by being represented in the Board of Student Cooperation, will help to determine the welfare services you want at each place of study. The funds for student welfare are not earmarked for special offers today. These means shall provide the basis for general student welfare. They shall complement the overall welfare provision elsewhere in society and be an integral part of the overall learning environment of the educational institution. Student relations can theoretically, if they so wish, use the full grant for mental health interventions. That's why I think it's important that arguments about this come up, so that the awareness that this is a problem is present. With regard to the disposal of funds from the holiday fee, I will refer again to the right of self-determination of student relations. It's added to the students to decide what they need. The Ministry of Knowledge approves the increase in the holiday fee. Applications to the Department have not made it clear that they have wanted to increase the holiday fee recently because they wanted to spend more on mental health measures. We have not received such signals directly. The framework conditions for studying, both at the structural, organisational and individual level, are important factors in achieving a good learning environment. I agree that it is an important theme that has been addressed here. In the Statistical Centre’s 2005 living conditions survey on the living conditions of students, it was found that students had a lower mental health status than the general population. At the same time, it was also found that in order to say something certain about why students have reduced mental health more often than others, a more comprehensive analysis would be necessary than that carried out in the report. In the light of the other work in this area, I will assess whether there is a need for a new study on the mental health of students. You can see here that a lot of interesting and useful ideas have been made for such an assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07-2.ana.ud1906e286	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am pleased to hear that action has been taken in this area. After I decided to submit an interview on this very topic, I have received a lot of enquiries from both student organisations and student media that have been very concerned about this matter being put on the agenda. That is why I am glad that the Council of State also has this on its table and has things going on. I'm glad to hear that a group has been set up to coordinate health care services. We need that in other sectors. We also need that for this group. I am also pleased with the strategy plan that has been drawn up, with measures in relation to the progress of studies for students with mental health problems. In this respect, with the allocation of funds, it is correctly understood that it is the pot the Council of State disposes of. I just want to clarify some things that at least the student organisations presented to the Christian People's Party when we worked with the budget. When the government cuts in its grants to student kindergartens, and the relationships do not want to lay down their kindergartens because they see that they offer something different from what other kindergartens do, it will have to go beyond a lot of work. Then psychosocial work becomes particularly damaging. You can't put babysitting in order to get this done. I also want to highlight some of this with the Quality Reform, because it is clear that compulsory attendance and a closer follow-up of each student will be important for this group. At the same time, if it takes some time before you get help for your mental health, you can have a good deal of undocumented absence that allows your compulsory study to go. This strategy plan and this programme of studies for students with mental health problems may well be something to do with this, but I would also like to ask the Council of State to include it in the further work on this topic. What I think can be the biggest challenge in this field is that many people think this is important, but it is challenging to find the good measures to help this group. That's why I look forward to the debate we're going to have on now, and that today we can join in and give the good measures to lift students with mental health problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07-2.ana.ud1906e297	I mentioned that there were some things that had been done, among other things. set up a working group chaired by the Ministry of Health and Welfare. At the first meeting of this working group to look at future solutions for mental health care for students, it was found that student relations in Bergen, Trondheim, Oslo and Akershus, Stavanger and Agder thought that today a greater proportion of the funds are spent on mental health care than before. It was only the Studentship in Oslo that could say that they used a greater share of the holiday fee on this type of action now compared to a few years ago. So there's obviously a movement here, and I think the right way to move forward is to raise the awareness of the students themselves, so that through representation in the relationships they can help decide that more of the money goes to the interaction through, among other things. the holiday tax, goes to such measures. I can also comment on some of the background material for studies that have been, among other things. The living conditions survey of the Central Bureau of Statistics, on the living conditions of students. An interesting and important finding in this survey is that when you look specifically at gender, there is a higher proportion of women with mental health problems both among students and among the population, and relatively largest among students. 16 pst. of the female students have reduced mental health, and 10 pst. of the women of the population otherwise have the same. The equivalent for men is 12 pst. and 7 pst. This study assumes that there may be a poor economy that results in poor mental health. We have previously discussed here in this room students who are in a difficult disease situation or in a situation where they have sick children, or there is a disease in close relationships. We have to follow this closely from the department. As I said, I want to consider a study to go deeper into this, but I think it is very important to have close contact with the student organisations, so that the awareness of these challenges, which we have to take quite seriously, also comes to the boards where the decisions are made in the interaction.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07-2.ana.ud1906e306	I will give tribute to the representative Dagrun Eriksen to address an important topic in this room in the late afternoon hours. When many young people are struggling with poor mental health, there is cause for concern. The concern is specifically addressed to students in this case. Last year, 208 000 students were registered at educational institutions in Norway, and it goes without saying that this is a diverse group of different and complex problems. The 2005 Life Year Survey shows that students in general have a lower mental health than the general population. 13 pst. students report poor mental health, compared with 8 pst. by the general population. Among the students with poor mental health, 11 pst say. that the study situation is the cause, the stress of exams or the feeling of hopelessness in view of the future. The entire 18 pst. of the female students, feeling depressed and complacent in relation to the situation. When the study situation is the cause of mental illness, this will not necessarily be a persistent problem. We know little about the reason that just students have poor mental health. It spreads from sex, age, whether you have children and as a partner. In society in general, the causes of mental disorders are easier to understand. These disorders are related to income, labour market conditions, level of education and family disintegration. Continuously, as also mentioned by the Council of State, women have a lower mental health status than the rest of the population. The same applies to single and single dependants. In the living conditions survey, 87 pst is assessed. of the students' health as good. Illness is often linked to the social position of society and is related to the same groups as mentioned above. Education, income and employment can also be related to disease and harassment. When you look at the causes of mental distress in society in general, and in some groups in particular, it is not surprising that students get particularly poor. You are at a stage in life where the future is planned, but your path can be long and winding. Uncertainty is linked to a future profession and a stable and secure job. Our challenge is to be able to provide those who are struggling, a good offer of help, regardless of whether they are students or not. I believe that student relations should be able to offer help to students who are struggling mentally. Whether the treatment itself is to be given by the student relations, I am in greater doubt about it, but it should be possible to seek help and be referred on without the self-payment being overstated. It is important to launch research projects that show more evidence of mental problems going beyond the end of study time, the type of mental illness the students are struggling with, whether the feeling of hopelessness increases near exams, and whether anxiety is gradually becoming closer to the end of the study and the goal of a degree has been achieved. In addition to the Council of State, I would like to clarify the importance of the project ‘Studies with support’, which was set up in Bergen in the autumn of 2006. The target group is young people who, despite their study skills, are unable to participate in the study because of a serious mental disorder. The project was supported by the major improvement in the Roadmap for Mental Health and is now supported by the National Strategy Plan for Work and Mental Health, which lasts until 2012. The bet should result in better and more offers for people with mental disorders. The project has shown that small measures are needed to enable young people with mental disorders to study and complete higher education. Young students are given a special offer through the waiting time guarantee in the specialist health service for children and young people under 23 years of age with mental illness. This guarantee was introduced by Sylvia Brustad, Minister of Health and Health, and offers a maximum of 90 days waiting time for help. Taking up higher education gives both economic and social status and is a source of increased quality of life. Being a student is a temporary status where the goal is a secure job and increased income. Equally entitled to education is the main objective of Norwegian higher education and also means that those with mental illness should be offered assistance and follow-up, regardless of whether the problem occurred before or after the start of the study.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07-2.ana.ud1906e338	I would first like to thank the interpellant for addressing a current issue. Easier mental disorders, anxiety and depression are the diagnostic group that is increasing most today. Half of the long-term absences among people under 40 years of age fall within this group, and the World Health Organisation has announced that depression in 2020 will be second place above the most expensive diseases in the world society. I would strongly warn against generalising the term «psychiatric disorders». There are considerable differences in mental disorders, and different types of stress also address different needs for interventions. In this area, which has been dealt with in other areas such as the Church, Education and Research Committee, the rule of early action can be crucial. People with untreated mental disorders are likely to be at high risk of developing chronic conditions, while early intervention and treatment are effective. There is a group of young people who, despite their study skills, have not been able to participate in the study because of a serious mental disorder, and these students obviously need to be followed up in a specific way. In Bergen, as mentioned, a focus of particular attention has been given to this group through the project ‘Studies with Support’, as a result of the Roadmap for Mental Health. This work is now being continued until 2012 through the National Strategy Plan. The aim is to support the individual by compensating for or eliminating disability, so that humans experience as much self-determination as possible and adaptation in the local environment. The mountain was the first city in Norway with this offer. Equal rights to education are an important principle in Norway. Good study arrangements have helped to make it possible, in principle, for people from all social classes to take a higher education. The action in Bergen for students with moderate to severe mental disorders is thus important and innovative in order to implement this principle. People with mental disorders are often met with many prejudices. Taking a higher education, or just having that opportunity, is an important contribution to eliminating these prejudices. The Ministry of Health and Health’s own websites state that mental disorders of the type depression and anxiety of all degrees and types of life-time perspective affect approx. 40 pst. by the population. NAV figures in 2006 show that over 60 pst. The proportion of persons aged 18 to 29 receiving disability benefit is associated with mental illness and an increase in the proportion of those aged 18 to 29 years. According to the Statistical Centre’s report ‘Students’ living conditions 2005’, students have consistently worse mental health than the rest of the population. 13 pst. students report poor mental health, compared with 8 pst. by the general population. But is this unique to students? No, that's not it. Studies show that between 10 and 20 pst. of young people aged 15 to 19 years with anxiety, eating disorders and depression. Youth is under considerable pressure from several sides. High pressure and vulnerability can cause mental problems. It's good and good to look at the students' situation, but I think we have to go into a long earlier stage. From children, we focus on praise and strengthening behavior. At the same time, many experience a sense of emptiness and depression. Many people ask for help because they feel that they have no value even if the external aspects are successful. We see that there is an increase in the number of children who have relationship damage. It is important to distinguish between self-esteem and self-esteem. And it's important to work with children's self-esteem. As Jesper Juul says in the evening post: “He got a lot of roses during his growth. As an adult, he wears the urge to always be the best and kindest.» It is important to recognize that every individual is unique and that the individual is recognized as it is. Therefore, the unit school and the similarity idea are elements that I believe are going in the wrong direction and help to reinforce the problems. Many young people are strict with themselves. They have clear insights about what you should be like and what you should look like. By thinking through and becoming aware that we're all different, each one can have a few more space to be himself. I think it's important that teachers, school managers and not least parents become much more aware of the problem. It is important that mental disorders are demystified and generalised. And that's what Kjell Magne Bondevik is going to have: The fact that he stood up with his disease was a very positive contribution in that way. It is important that all actors involved with children, young people and students become aware of the need to address the mental issues before they have time to develop into fixed behaviour patterns. There are many young people who are struggling with something that mucks, and they don't dare put words on. Our contribution must be to stimulate greater transparency and make it easier to accept diversity.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07-2.ana.ud1906e367	It is an important topic addressed by the interpellant. Psychiatric health is a difficult issue, mainly because the issues are complex and often very comprehensive. In 2007, it was about the same. 208 000 students registered with Norwegian higher education institutions. It's a high number, and it says of course seas that this constitutes a very complex and complex group. The 2005 Lifetime Survey of the Statistical Centre shows that the mental health of students is worse than that of the general population, and that the study situation often makes it worse. Older students look brighter on future than younger students, women are more concerned than men, while having a lifelong companion and having children are factors that work in a positive direction. The differences indicate that students are in a situation that is very much affected by their mental health. But it's not that it's necessarily a persistent problem. Just in the study phase, life is also characterized by a break-up, a need for mastery feeling, moving around, in a break-up time in most forms, you may be struggling to find your identity, and you are about to establish yourself as an independent individual. It happens a lot at once, and fortunately, most students are doing well. At the same time, it is important to stress that not all forms of mental distress that students have during the study period can be depreciated by the fact that these are exam nerves. Often it stings deeper than that. Many people believe that poor mental health is a growing problem in today's society. I think in part that's what it is. But at the same time, I think the reason why we see more cases now is that we've got more transparency around the topic. It's less taboo to stand up today and say that you have mental problems than it was just a few years ago. That openness has also made it much more acceptable as a common disease to have mental disorders. In order to provide students with a good and comprehensive welfare offer, it is important that all agencies participate in ensuring a good prevention offer, and not least that the offer is available at the time of the problems. The project ‘Studies with Support’, carried out by the Student Cooperation in Bergen, has been mentioned by several. It shows that often there are not as large a response as possible to improve the situation. It shows that relatively small things are often what it takes to get students to continue their studies and to complete a higher education. The project targets people with moderate to severe mental disorders, and those who are behind the project stress that the important thing is that the students are met with an understanding of their situation, where the focus is on what they can master, instead of what they can't master because of their suffering. The responsibility of regional health companies for all citizens is the guiding principle in the organisation of specialist health services in Norway, including for students. At the universities of Oslo, Bergen and Trondheim, as mentioned above, special student health services are built under the direction of student relations, funded by the three health-related companies, which are in addition to the regular offer in all health-care establishments. The financing of this offer was transferred from the then Ministry of Education and Research to the Ministry of Health in 2004. That was about. Four million. the transfer was carried over and the assumption was that ‘ordinary operating and contractual conditions’, as it was called, should be communicated to them in order to operate the offer they had. What's important to underline, and that makes it special, is that very many of those who work with the Student Health Service experience that having a low threshold for getting in, having a combination of a general medical offer and a psychosocial offer, is what makes many people get help, just because it's often the first contact with the doctor that's crucial. You might come there to get headache pills or something else, and then it turns out there's something else that bothers you. But then there's someone there who can catch it up, instead of having to go to his supervisor first and then have to enter another offer afterwards. That's an important point. I think it is time for the interpellant to ask how, in cooperation with the Ministry of Health, the Council of State can ensure that this very wide range of health services for students can be ensured. Because I'm afraid we're seeing a development that's going in the opposite direction, just that we're disassembling many of the special offers we've made, which are designed specifically to target students, and refer students, like everyone else, to a firming offer and a second-round specialist health service. The reason why these offers work well is that they catch up with the entire student and the whole human being.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07-2.ana.ud1906e395	I would first like to commend the representative, Dagrun Eriksen, for addressing an incredibly important topic. Focusing on students' mental health is incredibly important. We all know that study life is exciting, instructive, but also very demanding. The time limits are at the door, there are exams and submissions all the time. We know that it is incredibly important that we have a well-developed welfare system, and it is the responsibility of our politicians to ensure that this is good enough. It is also important that we have good low-threshold facilities where students can be met early and quickly. The biggest issue discussed in 2007 The government's proposal for a new law on student relations. The government’s proposal was based on a report from a sample that was dropped in the summer of 2005. The student team then expressed considerable uncertainty as to the purpose of reducing this sample, and the students expressed concern as to what a change in the law could result in for student relations the right, opportunity and ability to create welfare services for the students. When Odelstinget dealt with the new law on student relations on 29 November 2007, this uncertainty was cleared up. The government had put forward a proposal that continued the role of interaction as a welfare service provider for the students. The Storting even decided to change the second paragraph of Section 4 of the Act, which ensures that all institutions are linked to a student relationship, so that all students can enjoy the offers of a student relationship, such as housing, canteen business, training centre, health services, etc. The latter is particularly important in the context of today’s interpellation. Several student relationships have established their own psychosocial health services. This is done in both Oslo, Bergen and Trondheim. The schemes are partly financed by State aid but also by contributions from the holiday tax. Since these offers are organised through communication and with a treatment offer that is almost exclusively aimed at students, employees have been able to specialize in the problems and challenges that students most often face in their everyday lives. In addition to the provision of clean treatment, several of these services have a course for students in connection with, for example: examination stress, taking the word in meetings and guidance from advisers in contact with the students. There is little doubt, therefore, that student relations complement public psychosocial health services in an important way. These are good examples of how to perform an effective and good psychosocial service for the students. The educational institutions have overall responsibility for the learning environment of the students and, in cooperation with the student relations, shall facilitate a good study environment and a good overall learning environment. Cooperation between institutions and interactions includes favourable bonding arrangements and other arrangements for the efficient and good functioning of interconnections. The institutions are legally obliged to take care of the students' overall learning environment. The University and Higher Education Act § 4-3 states this. It is the governments who have the overall responsibility for this. The same law also states that the students are entitled to at least two members, or 20 pst. representation, in the institutional boards. Institutions are required to have a learning environment selection but are often organised with local educational environment selections at faculty and institute level. These samples are involved in the planning of actions relating to the learning environment and follow the development of issues relating to the safety and well-being of students. These are important bodies for ensuring a good and comprehensive learning environment for students, and this will contribute to a gradual improvement in the learning environment of students, physically and mentally. During this period, the government has gradually improved student welfare. This was the interpellant, Dagrun Eriksen, much into. More student homes are being built now than before, and support for the study has been cost-adjusted. In this context, however, it has been very important, perhaps crucial, that student relations are ensured by a good law that ensures the necessary prerequisites for continuing to improve the psychosocial status of students, in cooperation with the institutions and the learning environment committees. In the course of this extension, it is reassuring and positive that the Aasland Council will assess the need for new studies on the mental health of students. I think the answer to this is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07-2.ana.ud1906e416	I thank you for the debate we have now had. I think, to comment on something, absolutely that more research should be considered on why it is so that there is a higher proportion of mental illness in students than in the population. So I also want to say that it's that we can have this kind of debate today without it appearing stigmatizing to a whole group, without everyone thinking that students are struggling with mental health the whole crowd, it tells me that we've come incredibly much further in terms of transparency that students' situation is diverse, and that mental health is quite legitimate to discuss in relation to all groups. It wasn't a matter of course just a few years ago. In my article, I explained the difference between interactions in terms of how much they get in government transfers from health care companies in order to be able to provide an offer in the psychosocial section. I want to challenge the Council of State whether she would like to make contact with the Minister of Health and Care, who, through her ability to manage health businesses, can accept that we have got new universities both in Agder and in Stavanger that need a challenge to this, and also ensure that funding is provided to enable this offer to be implemented. As others have been involved in their contributions, among others. Eriksen Soreide from the Right, this offer at the study sites is crucial, because it has a low threshold and makes it possible to get help early. I fully agree with that, and therefore the allocation of funds from health businesses will also be crucial in such a context. There's a part that's commented on how important it is with openness, and also with role models in this area, so that we can get further. I think we have come some further steps. I wish we had even more concrete measures. I would also like to have challenged the Council of State whether it is possible, in cooperation with the co-operation, to consider specific projects aimed at some of the institutions to see if one can come even further. Of course, these are things that should be done with the Minister of Health and Care, but I have registered that the Council of State wants to be the State Council of Students, and that is exactly what she could be challenged on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07-2.ana.ud1906e426	There's been a lot of interesting input into the debate. Let me just make a few brief comments. In the context of the studies that have been carried out, and that it is possible that poor finances and difficult conditions in this context may affect the likelihood of a poorer mental health, I would say that the efforts of the Ministry of Knowledge are as much to prevent as to repair the damage together with the Ministry of Health and Health. Both are important. I want to mention that in our efforts at student housing, we have been on -- hopefully -- something like this prevention. Here there is a lower rent than it is on the private market, and the overall welfare work done through student relations, which provides some cheaper services, hopefully also helps to prevent if there is a poor economy that is a starting point. But I would like to take the challenge of continuing contact with the Minister of Health and Care. All schools are important here, whether small or large, and it is important to follow up in an overall context on the part of the big community. It should not only be a sectoral responsibility, but also an overall responsibility. I also take with me Dagrun Eriksen's proposal for any special projects, without my being able to promise anything special about it, but it is an interesting idea that I could well imagine discussing with the Minister of Health and Care. A little comment in the end on how important it is to start early. I was inspired by the representative, Gåsvatn, who talked about starting early in school. I think he may have misunderstood a little, perhaps on purpose, as to what the single school really is. In my opinion, the single school is not that everyone should be completely equal, but that everyone should have equal opportunities. I can't stress enough what he was about, that follow-up at school is unusually important as early as possible. Then I think of the possibility of both a separate follow-up of the individual student in primary school, and also in kindergarten and high school, and also in student context, which we hope has been better achieved through the quality reform. Being seen and being followed up as early as possible - we call it early action, and believe that it is important - is hopefully also an important part of prevention in the area of mental health. However, I bring with me interesting input and assessments in the further dialogue I have with the student relations, student organisations and with the Minister of Health and Care.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07-2.ana.ud1906e437	So the debate is on case No. 3 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07-2.ana.ud1906e454	Studying abroad is not something Norwegian students do just because they do not find what they want to do at home. Fortunately, it is at the end of the time when the Nordics went out to take education mainly because the education was not in Norway, or because the education capacity was too low. When we talk about studying abroad today, we put great emphasis on self-esteem, cultural understanding, a globalised labour market and a frontier-free world. We know that more and more employers, both public and private, are demanding international understanding, language skills beyond the usual and ability to cooperate with employees on the other side of the globe. The ability to see different perspectives and willingness to mobility is increasingly seen as additional elements - and in many cases requirements - of employment. In addition to transforming the study funding for school money support in 2004, the previous government launched another important measure to increase the number of foreign students, with particular emphasis on increasing the number of students in non-English-speaking countries. Support was put in place for a so-called organising semester, so that students can receive support for a semester of language training before starting their own vocational studies. The point of this, of course, was to increase student mobility of countries that are our main trading partners. Developments in the number of Norwegian foreign students have been in the wrong direction in recent years and, unfortunately, the trend is not decreasing. While in the 2003–04 study year there were 15,064 students in full-time studies, the figures have fallen steadily to the current level. As of August 1, 2007, only 11,116 students were in full school. The only discipline that has shown a significant increase are medical students, but this is due to too low study capacity here in Norway. Without the medical students, who count 2,300-2,400, the statistics look even more gloomy. The decline is greatest in English-speaking countries, perhaps especially in the United States, but of course there are also important countries such as Germany and France, where there are now historically few Norwegian students left. Political adviser in the Ministry of Knowledge, Kyrre Lekve, characterises this decline as the ‘message’ in the Newspaper of Day on 6 March. I would like to know what the Council of State thinks about this negative development. The number of partial students has remained relatively stable over the same time period. In the examination of the EEAS in 1997, the Stortinget expressed a wish that part-time students should increase, but at the same time decided that it would not be at the expense of the number of full-time students. It is also not stated in the Quality Reform that a partial effort should be made at the expense of the full-time students. The possibility of one should not preclude the possibility of the other. In Today's Business 14 March, the same political advisor in the department, Kyrre Lekve, on the other hand, states that there is a cross-political consensus on prioritising partial degrees. Full and partial studies are complementary, and it is difficult to put them up against each other, simply because they provide different competences. It is reasonable to assume that linguistic and cultural benefits increase by the number of months and years you are out. There is little research on the yield of the foreign residence of the Norwegian partial students, compared to the full-time students. According to NIFU STEP, the focus on part-time studies is limitedly based on facts about the individual or social benefits of this type of exchange stay. Students point to funding as the main obstacle to taking a full-time study abroad. The general interest in taking full-time out is felt to be high, but there are a lot of people who go back when they find out how much they are at risk of going on, or for the part that they are not receiving mortgage financing at all for parts of the education. We've dealt with the first-year problem many times in this room, and I don't think we're doing it for the last time today. It is quite obvious that it is of great importance for the possibility of taking full-time studies out. Just because the entrance ticket is too expensive, it doesn't help if the rest of the price of the study is to live with. You don't get in, and then it doesn't help what else you had to get out of support. Many students thus fall away before they have started at all, and it is reserved for them with good finances to take a full-time course in e.g. United States or some non-Western countries. This is inconvenient to the cross-political objective of equal education for all, including those who choose to study abroad. Of course, there are several aspects that are important when we want to increase student mobility, but both the Nordic Kela survey and the European Eurostudent survey point to funding as one of the main obstacles and the main factor. Support for the first year in the United States, the so-called freshman year, and the first year of Bachelor’s degree in non-Western countries are important for getting up the recruitment for full-time studies abroad. Strengthening the grant rate and the school money support is also a topic that we will certainly discuss again in this room. The Ministry of Knowledge has recently, particularly through media activity, referred to new stringent quality requirements for foreign studies. My question to the Council of State is what concrete requirements have been put in place. Does the Council of State consider that short-term stays abroad automatically yield higher quality than long-term stays abroad? Or is it that when political leadership in the Ministry of Knowledge refers to quality requirements, is it from a desire to try once again to restrict the freedom of choice of foreign students? I expect more than me to remember that the then head of the Kuf Committee, Rolf Rikvam, was trying to limit the number of Norwegian students who went to Australia to study. It is tempting to ask whether the same scepticism for studies in Australia still applies in SV. For, according to the Newspaper on March 6, the Political Advisor of the Council of State Kyrre Lekve states the following: ‘The decline in foreign students is modest and most of the decline is due to fewer full-time students in Australia. This is not a problem because many of the studies did not meet the quality requirements of Norway. There was a little too much "beach university," says Lekve. There has been no restriction in the number of eligible training courses in Australia due to quality requirements. As early as 2001, the government-appointed Lykke Committee concluded that the standard at Australian universities is high and is not at all inferior to the Norwegian. It was a goal of the 2004 funding conversion to improve the geographical distribution, but the goal was not to allow the students to return home instead. The Times World University Rankings for 2006 shows the 200 best universities in the world. Of these 200 universities, 13 were Australian. 12 of the 13 came all in front of the only Norwegian university on the list, namely the University of Oslo. In addition, we know that the University of Oslo fell some places on the 2006 ranking compared to the previous year. In other words, it is a bit typical of Norwegian to think that our education system is almost perfect and maintains a very good standard and high quality, while institutions in other parts of the world, in other countries, cannot compare with the Norwegian institutions. Unfortunately, both reality and statistics show that the situation is the opposite. To a very large extent, Norwegian universities and educational institutions are struggling to maintain the quality of Norwegian students when they go out to study. It's also a paradox if, in the government's opinion, Australian universities don't really meet the goal, why it's good to send part-time students there. In a few months' time, Stortinget will receive a major report on the internationalisation of education. I look forward to getting it to treatment, but I must also admit that I am not particularly optimistic about the content of it. The opinions of the political leadership of the department in recent times do not indicate a great deal of understanding of the situation, nor a great deal of understanding of the seriousness of the situation. It is tempting to challenge the Council of States to say something about the content of the big news and what the Government wants with the message to be presented to us in the autumn of 2008. Based on the signals sent, it may seem that the Government no longer considers student mobility to be an important part of the internationalisation strategy. So my question to the Council of State is how the Government will contribute to more students taking education abroad, and especially full-time studies.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07-2.ana.ud1906e489	This is an interesting day with many important educational policy issues - a marathon debate, we might call it, but there are important questions also this interpellant addresses. I would like to make it clear that in the context of the Quality Reform, it was emphasised that an increase in the international level of activity is necessary to obtain new impetus in the Norwegian university and higher education sectors and to improve the quality of Norwegian higher education. Of course, I stand for that, and it also stands for the Ministry of Knowledge and the Government. In the Quality Reform, it was clarified that one of the measures for increased international activity was that all higher education institutions should be able to offer students wishing to do so, a study stay abroad as part of a Norwegian degree programme. So that's where the sub-students were highlighted as an important part of the increased internationalisation activity you'd like to have. Internationalisation strategies in the Quality Reform were more than sending Norwegian students to sub-studies. This was perhaps the new thing that was underlined, but the strategies also include: several foreign students to Norway international research cooperation and mobility, both from and to Norway international perspectives in Norwegian education offers international curriculum English language programmes etc. It is important to have this perspective when talking about internationalisation and quality reform. I would also like to remind you that there will be a big message on the internationalisation of education. It will then include secondary, post-secondary and post-secondary education. The present communication will have a broad approach to the issues, with a comprehensive assessment of objectives and instruments, which should be addressed and addressed in such communications. In addition to mobility, it is important that we do not forget that internationalisation should also mean something to the vast majority of students who do not choose to take all or part of the studies out. Good contact between countries and good contact between cultures also has a broader perspective than only students and students. When we talk about student mobility, it is important to separate the debate on degree studies and part-time studies abroad, as we have different policies, developments and causal links for the two student groups. So I'm going to start by saying something about partial studies, where it's been a clear goal to increase the number of students after the quality reform. In the 2002–03 academic year, when the Quality Reform was introduced, the number of sub-students exceeded 5,200. In the 2004–05 study year, the number was nearly 6,650, while in 2005–06 the number was about 7 000 students. Unfortunately, we had a decrease of 6,564, to be completely accurate, in 2006-2007. We do not know the reason for the decline - there is of course no wanted decline from our side either - but something can be explained by the fact that there were altogether fewer students in higher education in Norway this year. Preliminary figures for 2007-2008 suggest that we might get an upturn again. The rise in the number of sub-students is in line with the objectives of the Quality Reform. However, we want greater mobility than we have achieved, particularly in European programmes and to other countries and areas that are important to Norway, such as Norway. U.S.A. Norway has been included in the EU action programme on lifelong learning with great strength, but we see low Norwegian use in Erasmus. Norwegian students can get approx. 1500 SEK in scholarships per person. the month through Erasmus, in addition to the study funding through the Loan Fund. Nevertheless, the scheme is not fully exploited. The decline in mobility in part-time studies is a common trend for the whole of Europe, but it is not known why. However, studies in Europe show that the economy is not the only player. Also, lack of personal motivation, poor language skills and lack of organisation for mobility in countries of origin and destination are highlighted as important factors, as the interpellant himself was here. The Ministry of Knowledge has presented a strategy for increased educational cooperation with North America, i.e. The United States and Canada. The aim is increased cooperation between Norwegian and North American higher education institutions, with student mobility as one of the cooperation activities. We also have initiatives towards other countries that we hope will contribute to increased mobility. I can refer to a very fresh round in Latin America that has resulted in Memorandums of Understanding with Argentina, Chile and Brazil, and we have similar things going on with India and China. We also want increased cooperation with Russia, not least as part of the Northern Region Strategy. So to the degree studies: we have seen a decrease in the number of degree students abroad since approx. 2003–2004 from about 15 000 to about 12000 students. The decline in the number of degree students has not been intentional, but there were no specific objectives to increase the quality reform. We do not know the cause of the decline in recent years, but we see the same trend in the other Nordic countries. The causes of the decline need to be investigated. The Ministry of Knowledge is now conducting a study on the issue of internationalisation of education. The discussion about support for the so-called freshman year - which was a scheme that was changed for approx. 20 years ago -- that is, the first year of Bachelor's education in the United States and also the first year of Bachelor's education in some other countries, has dominated in the last and many years. I believe that this is an unfortunate derailment of an important debate. Lack of support for the freshman year cannot be the only reason for the decline in the number of degree students. Support for the freshman year was removed more than 20 years ago, while the decline in the number of degree students in the United States began much later. The largest decline in the number of Norwegian degree students abroad since the peak year 2002–2003 concerns students in Australia, which was also the subject of the interpellant. Of nearly 3,000 students, the decline in Norwegian students to Australia is almost 2,200, so it is far less that goes to Australia now than when the peak was reached in 2002–03. I am concerned that the public debate that is now going on about studies in the United States and the freshman year should scare potential students away. There are very good opportunities to take education abroad - also in the United States. Norway has among the world's most shy education support schemes abroad. That's what we confirmed on our journey in Latin American countries. Norwegian students who were very satisfied with their student support system when compared with students from other countries. In addition, many American universities are willing to take Norwegian students up in the second year of Bachelor's programmes. In addition, more than 50 apprenticeships in the United States are covered by the supplementary education scheme. If you take training at these universities, you get support for the freshman year. This is information that is not so clear to the students. The representative Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide calls for measures that can help more students to take education abroad. Measures to increase student mobility and, in particular, to increase the number of degree students often become a matter of study funding. Here, this big message will explain the background - which we need to have an even better basis for action - and action in relation to increased student mobility will be discussed and proposed here. Since I was challenged in this area, I will give some preliminary assessments. Today, we have a policy in the funding of studies that prioritises sub-studies and master's degrees rather than bachelor's degrees. I think this is still a reasonable priority. Nor do I believe that a one-sided searchlight on support for the freshman year is the best and most effective solution. For example, an approach in which the Bologna countries put pressure on universities in the United States to bring up European students for the second year of their Bachelor's degree will save students for one year of study and the corresponding loan burden. I have to get closer to this in the big message, but we are not the only country that has the system we have. In the Bologna context, we are quite a few who have the same starting point because these courses in Norway and for example. in the United States does not match each other in years. I also believe that information measures on the possibilities available and guidance to simplify application procedures will lower the threshold for choosing studies abroad. For this with quality requirements, which the interpellant was talking about: there's nothing on our side that says we're going to have four on something there. We set the same quality requirements everywhere, both for our own and for foreign studies, in order to obtain the necessary arrangements within the study support. We want greater mobility. We want more students abroad, and not least we want more students from other countries to also have the opportunity to study at Norwegian universities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07-2.ana.ud1906e552	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State. I remember that in the mid-1990s, the Stortinget adopted a major and important objective that half of Norwegian students would have the opportunity to take all or part of their education abroad. We have approx. 200,000 Norwegian students in higher education, meaning that half of these 100,000 could somehow be in the position of education abroad. When we look at the numbers - 11,116 students out in full-time studies and about. 6 500 out in part-time studies - I guess it's not close to meeting the goals we set. One of the reasons for this, in addition to the question of freshman years and the first year of bachelor’s studies in non-Western countries, is that the funding system may appear to have a greater impact on recruitment for partial studies than for full-time studies, and that we will then have to assess them at the time of the notification. I agree with the Council of State that internationalisation should mean something also for those who are not given the opportunity to take foreign residence. However, there is no difference between placing internationalisation at all students at all institutions throughout Norway, while at the same time facilitating the widest possible exchange of students between Norway and other countries. Governments also use as an example -- and I think that's very interesting -- that one of the obstacles to going out is that Norwegian students have too poor language skills. After all, the previous government tried to do something by introducing compulsory second-level foreign languages in youth, precisely to improve the ability of students to learn languages, to make them choose languages in higher education and to deepen themselves in higher education languages. There would have been a significant contribution to the fact that more people would feel secure enough linguistically to choose studies abroad. It took away the current government with a pen stroke--it was probably something of the first Øystein Djupedal did, almost before he sat down in the chair of the Y-block. Thus, it has meant a recruitment crisis for language subjects both at secondary level and not least in higher education. Finally, I would like to add a few words to the North America strategy, which I fully support. I think it's very important to make that kind of strategy, because we know that, especially in relation to the United States, we have great challenges. But at the same time, instead of spending a lot of money on making a strategy, I could just as well spend the money on solving the challenge that prints the most for students on their way into the United States, namely, support for the freshman year. I also think it is quite a paradox when the Council of State points out that in 50 institutions in the United States, which are on the supplementary list, there is support for the freshman year. But then there is no reason not to get it at the other institutions in the United States, too, once it has been accepted that at 50 institutions the freshman year is at the level of Norwegian higher education. Why, then, can we not accept it at all the other institutions in the United States? It would be a contribution to getting more students out.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07-2.ana.ud1906e567	I think the interpellant and I can agree that some of the relatively ambitious goals that were set in the mid-1990s and perhaps even later than that, eventually need a little reassessment. That half of all Norwegian students were going out is a great goal. Quality reform has reduced ambitions and is talking more about getting some of the studies abroad. But it may also happen that our own training provision, not only through the quality reform, but also through the great construction that has been made in parallel with and to some extent independent of it at our teaching sites, has become such that it is believed that we have a good study offer in Norway. Now you're not going to get enough of it, because we want the kids, the students, to go out, but I just mention that it could be one of the explanations that we actually got a better offer here in the country to many of the students who previously didn't have an offer here. I think I too want to be a little careful about giving the second foreign language discussion all the blame for feeling that you don't have enough language skills. On our trip to Latin America, it was quite obvious that the Norwegian students who were going to go to universities in those countries had to go there, when they came, through language courses, because all the teaching took place, of course, in the country's own language, whether it was Spanish or Portuguese. Here we are faced with a discussion of how to stimulate young people, so far as people of all ages, to open up to other languages and cultures. I think there are a lot of interesting input also in this debate that will be of great help in our work to get an even better grip on the entire internationalisation strategy associated with students. So I look forward to hearing the rest of the debate, and will come back perhaps later in it, but at least in a big message about this with the internationalization of studies.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07-2.ana.ud1906e576	The representative Eriksen Soreide is trying on a Spanish one. Linking a mandatory second foreign language to whether the language skills of foreign students are good enough becomes a strange thing. For those who take second foreign languages in high school, they're just those who take specialization and become students. The right thing to do, on the other hand, is to force people who are going to go professional and take a professional letter to take a mandatory second foreign language. I think the Spanish who don't keep track of what's real, and I think Eriksen Soreide knows very well. There is a broad political consensus that it is positive that Norwegian students go out and take all or part of the education abroad. Not only can it be professionally and socially valuable to the individual, but it can also contribute to a boost for Norwegian education, business and society as a whole. I'm glad the government is clear in that area, and I say clearly that you want more people to study outside. Unfortunately, we have seen a decline in the number of foreign students in recent years, which appears to be a trend not only in Norway but also in other European countries. It's a development we follow closely. There's been a lot of focus on the freshman year in the United States. It is a challenge, perhaps particularly with regard to the level of the freshman year, which, according to Norwegian and European standards, is more comparable to higher education. In the long term, therefore, perhaps the best solution is to agree with American universities that one should be able to start directly in the second year of bachelor's education. In this way, I will refer to what the Council of State said, that it is not that you do not receive support for the freshman year. In fact, more than 50 colleges in the United States are covered by the supplementary syllabus. If you take education in those schools, you will also receive support for the freshman year. The main consideration on which studies abroad are intended to provide student support is quality. It's important to stick to it. Nevertheless, there should be a debate on the criteria on which study support should be based. It is important when discussing this issue to state that we regularly have a very good public funding for our foreign students. In fact, the OECD notes that Norway is one of the countries with the most generous schemes in this way. As a result of the clear priorities of the Quality Reform for internationalisation, the number of students is increasing. In this context, it has to be mentioned that a wholesale communication on internationalisation will be presented. Here we will have plenty of opportunity to discuss the whole field and assess objectives and instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07-2.ana.ud1906e591	Interpellanten, Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide, focuses on an area that is becoming more important and important. I share her concern for the negative development. While the number of Norwegian students taking a whole degree abroad is increasing worldwide, the lowest in ten years, which has also been pointed out in the interpellecan speeches here on the platform. The number of Norwegian technology students abroad has halved since 2004, i.e. in well over three years. It is expensive to study abroad, but it has become much worse since the 2004 reform dropped the old fee grant scheme, where selected studies and apprenticeships were supported. Instead, we put in place a system of more professional freedom of choice, where almost all the students were to have access to loans, but we took in the same round and reduced the grant rate, which has proved to have major consequences. A student such as students in the United Kingdom, will soon be left with 400,000 kroner in loans at a bachelor's degree, while one who takes his studies in Norway - the same course of study and trade - will be left with about 150 000 kroner. Before 2004, the borrowing burden was actually about the same after completion of studies. I can't stop drilling a little bit in this with the funding, because in my eyes this is clearly one of the most important pillars to get more students to apply for education abroad. I would say that there is a lot of policy from the Government that the students are now being pushed away from full-time education and over to a request from the Government for a shorter part-time stay abroad. Had it just been so you could shift it. Now it turns out that's not the case. Is it then a wild policy on the part of the Council of State, because we know that Norwegian educational establishments are losing money on the fact that Norwegians are choosing abroad? The councils talked about Spanish courses, in connection with her being in Latin America, to get permission to study there. I think it's very important to be allowed to try out when you're home, by having the opportunity for bilingual education in high school. And I think it might be a barrier if you haven't tried it, if you don't even dare to apply for education abroad, if you haven't had the opportunity to test yourself a little bit at home. So I actually think it's very important. But what may surprise us most is the total lack of understanding of the value of the competences acquired by foreign students. It is a crossroads of thought that Norway is going back in the number of students studying at the foreign institute when we see that society around us is increasingly being internationalised and globalized. The knowledge and ballast that our students get home after their studies can not only be measured by the number of points and degrees, but perhaps as important are networking, multilingualism and the appreciation of increased mobility. Our industry and our companies are recipients of Norwegian students after finishing their studies. What could be more valuable than having applicants with that kind of broad knowledge? We also know that the government has announced an internationalization message for the autumn, which we meet with excitement. Even I've been so lucky to have many years abroad. I've been to foreign universities and I've seen what you acquire, and what it's given me of knowledge and development in areas where I could never have gotten it in Norway. Being able to see Norway from the outside is actually gold worth. I would also think that I would never have gone into the political world if I hadn't been abroad and wanted to change things -- one might have seen something working abroad that we don't have in Norway today, to someone's despair. It is also important that the internationalisation strategy that has now been set up, and the changes that had to be made to the new communication, do not just appear to be for the few, that the possibility of taking a full education should only be provided for the most academic and economically resource-intensive students. It actually badly harmonizes with the idea of equal rights to education. Studies abroad are soon reserved for students with the most middle parents. This rhymes little with the government parties that have fixed the program. If the Government is to succeed in this internationalization and this message, and not least in the grips one has to take, then one should start listening to those who know where the shoe is pressing. Then maybe one can succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07-2.ana.ud1906e610	Having foreign students has a value both for the country and for the individual. And the fact that we now see 3,000 fewer full-time students in the last four years should worry. I am a foreign student myself, and I have been out for five years. There is no doubt that it goes very well. You get language, culture and understanding for other countries, and an insight into things that are good to bring with you. It provides international networks, and it provides a willingness for individual mobility. Tolerance, trust and that kind of thing are also not to despise when it comes to other cultures. In view of this, the Norwegian debate on this issue with foreign students and this with ‘freshman year’ and support for students is somewhat petty. We're going to spend billions on some other projects without the analysis being so very deep, and we're going to allow others to spend billions on our behalf. So then not being able to go in with NOK 4-5 million to solve it with a freshman year is a paradox in itself. The representative de Ruiter was concerned with obtaining recognition of Norwegian education and having it approved as ‘freshman year’. We actually got that when I was a foreign student in the United States. That might say a little bit about the challenge in Norwegian school as well. But I think the Council of State is in for a good point, when it comes to perhaps simplifying the debate just to link it to ‘freshman year’. Here you might have to look with new eyes on the whole problem. If that's the way -- and I think most people realize -- that having foreign students has a value in themselves, maybe society must also be willing to simply realize that there is a little bit of extra support needed to stimulate it. Because we know we're going to meet an even more open, an even more competitive and an even more globalized world in the future. Norway is going to become an even more specialised country, which needs to be extremely productive in order for the young people of the future to bear the level of well-being that we are actually looking for. This gives greater access to information and a broader understanding of culture beyond its own value. So I was going to take up a little special challenge. Because in the United States, in fact, it is most common for all universities to have education throughout the year, either as four ‘quarters’ or as two semesters and a ‘sum semester’. Many Norwegian students choose to study throughout the year. They choose to take advantage of the entire year, but the loan fund defines a year of study of ten months, and does not pay support for those who then choose to use the summer to cut down on the study period they actually have to be there. I think that is a purely practical problem. Thus, support for tuition is not paid for those who choose the ‘total semester’. I would recommend that you solve it quite quickly, or at least that you take it into account in the work that is now being done around internationalisation and the kind of problems. Otherwise, I wish the Council of State luck with the message to come. I think it's an important topic that has been addressed, and here we should have a lot of focus on increasing the mobility of Norwegian students.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07-2.ana.ud1906e621	One of the main objectives of the Quality Reform is to increase internationalisation. It is a concrete goal to increase the number of partial students, i.e. students taking part of their degree abroad, with the main emphasis of education from a Norwegian university. And the Right too has joined this goal. The objective of increased internationalisation is at least three-thirds. First of all, it has a value in itself. Through student exchange programmes, students from different cultures and nations can come together and gain greater understanding and respect for each other’s background and cultures. Internationalisation is also important in a development aspect, both because Norwegian students will be able to help stimulate professional quality development in developing countries - and later use their special skills in the labour market - and also because developing country students will be able to study at Norwegian institutions, and will be able to benefit from their acquired knowledge for the benefit of their local environment, their country and their region. Thirdly, student exchange and internationalisation will be high-quality in Norwegian institutions. Students can return to further studies in Norway, with new contacts and new networks, with professional, linguistic and cultural competence, which will enhance the professional quality of teaching places. This leveling will also strengthen Norwegian working life and the quality of Norwegian research. Interpellant refers to a decrease in the number of foreign students. Of course, it is unfortunate if development is that fewer students study abroad. Here the institutions have a special responsibility to inform the students and encourage them to study a period abroad. Closer follow-up and guidance are also an objective of the Quality Reform, and this should lead to increased awareness of the possibility of studying abroad. The proportion of students studying abroad is very different from that of institutions to institutions. A good example of an institution that is very good at internationalisation is the Norwegian School of Commerce in Bergen. But at the same time, we're not going to be blind to quantitative quantities. Norwegian institutions place strict demands on the professional quality of foreign cooperation institutions. Examples here are the University of Oslo and the University of Tromsø, which have established bilateral mass exchange agreements with UC Berkeley, one of the world's leading social sciences universities. I am also aware that much of the decline in the proportion of foreign students is due to fewer students applying for part- and full-time studies at universities where the sun and summer focus as much as the study itself and the professional content. However, there is good reason to follow the situation closely. I assume that the institutions continue to work on developing good student exchange programmes with institutions that maintain a professionally satisfactory level. This is exactly how we can achieve the quality reform objective of internationalisation, which also means that Norwegian students, candidates and institutions have a qualitative level. Both me and probably the others here, among others. the interpellant will follow further developments, both in quality and in quantitative quantities. I look forward to the big message about internationalisation, which the Council of State will be submitting in a short time. I hope that one in this big message will focus strongly on the north and on a closer connection with our neighbours in the east. This is important for the trade we have in these areas, and for cultural and knowledge development.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07-2.ana.ud1906e642	I want to thank the interpellant for bringing up this topic. Some of the backbones of this debate are that which we received at the end of February, where both student, employee and employer organisations expressed great concern, and asked for concrete measures to get more people to study abroad. For the Christian People's Party, it is a crucial task to contribute to the development of Norway as a knowledge nation at a high international level. At the same time, this does not conflict with the fact that we want to encourage students to take part in or complete their education in Norway. There is no doubt that in many areas, foreign students are also a very important and large resource for the country when they return after finishing education. First, a foreign residence means a lot to each student personally. The experience aspect must in no way be underestimated. It's exciting to experience other cultures, learn languages, connect and make friends for life. The impulses that a person receives at a study stay abroad will be unique. Secondly, it has a direct gain of knowledge for our country. Of course, the professional dividends the students bring home will be great. Societal life and working life are becoming more and more internationalised, making cross-border cooperation a natural part of the world of work and society. The distances have simply narrowed. It is important to have international experience and therefore foreign students become attractive in the labour market. As noted in the interpellation text, ‘the latest figures from the Loan Fund show that we now have the lowest number of full-time students out in ten years’ time’. In the last four years, there have been a drop of 3,000 students. This is serious numbers in the eyes of the Christian People's Party, especially when we know that the situation in the rest of the world is quite different. Here, the number of students taking education outside their own country is rising sharply. There may be several reasons for this decline, but I don't think one comes except that economics is a determining factor. Today, studying abroad is in many cases a major economic boost. The borrowing burden associated with school money is high and helps many simply not to dare, or have the economy, to withdraw. Another element in this is that the borrowing burden is extra high for students at the bachelor level. It has consequences, precisely because Bachelor's training is the most important recruitment basis for further studies abroad. The longer you wait to stay abroad, the higher the threshold for doing so. In the last budgets, the Christian People's Party has been involved in the study support for non-Western countries. This is not about the large amounts in budgetary terms, but it nevertheless has consequences. I agree that it is very important that more people study in the major and important countries, such as the United Kingdom. USA, England, France and Germany. The problems with lack of support for the freshman year in the United States have been mentioned earlier. Several of these countries have the world’s leading educational institutions, while being one of our most important cooperation countries in both research and business. But it is also important that we get more students with study experience from countries in Asia, Latin America and also Africa. It is given, for example: not supporting first-year education in countries such as China, Japan and Russia, because this year is not at the level of the first year of higher education in Norway. I think we're losing on such a scheme. The countries I mentioned are very important countries to get impulses from and cooperate with. It must therefore be possible to find schemes which, on the one hand, ensure the decisive criterion that a study to receive support must be approved by NOKUT and, on the other hand, have measures to stimulate students to choose to study in these countries. Increased internationalisation makes it important to facilitate a greater level of exchange of knowledge, students and employees. I expect that the forthcoming big-time announcement that the Council of State has announced will address the challenges in a good way and provide a concrete plan for how the Government can help more students to study abroad. The strange thing about this debate is that I think the opposition, the business community, the employees' and employers' organisations and the student organisations are more concerned than those who actually have power, the government. I hear a voiced concern in party speakers, but there are also many explanation factors that don't give me a soothing feeling that the concern is as great with the government as it is with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07-2.ana.ud1906e663	I want to start by saying that it is an important and interesting topic that is being discussed here tonight. In my opinion, an international focus in the Norwegian education system is very important. It's important because it has a self-esteem in addition to extracting skills and impulses from the outside, because of course we're part of an increasingly global world, and then we have to understand the world in which we live. There's a few other ways to do it than to experience it. Therefore, a reduced number of foreign students are not good. It is also not good that the reductions we have seen in recent years have been in part relatively large. The Council of State said that international mobility should mean something to everyone, including those at home. I fully agree with that, and I can't understand that this could mean anything but that we also have to get more foreign students into Norway to use our education services. Internationalisation needs to work both ways. As I said, we all feel that the struggle for international competence has been sustained. Especially for a small country such as Norway, which is so dependent on having key competences in a wide range of areas, it is important to play with the world. We need impulses, we need traditions, we need knowledge, and we need culture. This, I think, is absolutely vital for us to succeed as a society in the future. That's why one of the most important things we can do nationally is to get more international focus. But that also means that we have to focus on increasing our own attractiveness; it has to be attractive to come here, as much as it's attractive to go out. There is reason to express concern about developments. I've learned that in relation to how many people go out, there's fewer coming here. We also see that to the extent that Norwegian universities are involved in the international rankings, it goes down. I also want to say that this has to have a wider range than just university level. It has been easy to make it the universities and the top competence we're discussing, but these should also be strategies that are very important and central to the higher education system. I have a general impression that as a nation and with our own education system and the competence we possess, sometimes enough can be at home alone, and to me, who is a member of the Daily Address Paper, it seems almost as much a surprise every year when the Nobel Prize within some disciplines is awarded, that none of them end up in Trøndelag. They should have. Therefore, when we discuss this, the framework conditions must be good enough. We have to reconcile the framework conditions to the targets we set. Therefore, of course, I look forward to the big message that the Government will present in this area. Neither do I believe that the discussion about support or not support for a freshman year is what is decisive. It's in any case a scheme that's been like this for over 20 years. There are many who should be blamed here - if you want to distribute it - and that would be a pity, I think, for this debate if it boils down to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07-2.ana.ud1906e679	I would first like to thank you for a good debate. This is a theme that many people have opinions on. And it's like when we're discussing foreign studies today, we're very concerned about some things in particular. We are concerned with cooperation, of mobility, of culture and of understanding of languages. We know that the boundaries are being built around us in every way, and we depend on being competitive in Norway, also in some of the areas where there was no great need for it 15, 20, 30 years ago. And that pressure isn't going to decrease; it's going to increase on the contrary. At the same time, we know that we are in the middle of relatively comprehensive European processes that are moving towards increased mobility and increased opportunities to leave. We're trying to make it structurally possible for more people to go out, because you run together the education systems, the grade systems and the character systems, so it's easier to move from country to country and study. There is something Norwegian students should have the opportunity to take advantage of, instead of being in a situation where many people feel that they are not allowed to travel and study. We also know that we're much less good than, for example, The Swedes to attract us foreign students in Norway. While in Sweden, they have a one-to-one ratio of approximately 26 000 students and receive 26 000 foreign students into Sweden, the figures in Norway are quite different. We're attracting a lot less than we would like, and there's a context here. Of course, the question of freshman years and support for the first year of Bachelor's degree in non-Western countries is just part of the discussion and part of the issue. But I firmly believe that this is such an important part of the problem for some of the countries we are talking about, that I believe that significant parts of the problem could have been solved by doing something about it. The government parties were united with a concerted opposition in the examination of the 2006 budget proposal, where we said that it was important to change the rules in relation to the freshman year and to support the first year of Bachelor's degree in non-Western countries. The government parties eventually jumped out, but the opposition parties have stood firm on this, and the opposition parties have in their alternative budgets allocated money to it. The representative Freddy de Ruiter said I took «a Spanish one». I don't know if it was an attempt at word games. But I wish that several Norwegian students could take a Spanish one or a German one or a French one or whatever it might be, simply because we have no language skills in Norwegian school, and it's going to be a significant obstacle to getting out. This is not because Norway is quite exceptional, but because we are in a negative position, while all other countries in Europe are moving in a different direction from Norway - by learning more languages in the past. Norway goes in the direction that we should learn fewer languages and teach them later than they do in other countries. It's a development that I don't think is going to help the Norwegian foreign students get on the roof. But I'm excited to see the big message. I thank you for the debate we have had here today, and I think we will have an interesting debate also for the autumn when the announcement comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07-2.ana.ud1906e692	I also thank you for the debate. My impression is, despite the statistics that were the starting point of the interpellation, that today's youth likes to get out, and that they're not afraid to get out. I don't think we're going to have any competition in who's most concerned that they're not going out. I think we all agree that there should be more presence abroad of Norwegian students, whether they are in full-time or part-time studies, and vice versa - foreign students in Norway. With respect to reporting -- it was not without reason that I brought representatives from research environments and universities here in Norway to Latin American countries and signed in all eleven agreements for the exchange of students between institutions in Norway and institutions in Latin American countries, and signed the Memorandum of Understanding with the authorities of those countries. What was the purpose? To increase student exchange and get more involved in research cooperation. The Norwegian financial instrument shall be considered, inter alia, to: by the OECD to be among the most generous in the world. Norway is, for example, one of the few countries providing grants alongside loans to cover school money abroad. This makes Norwegian students very popular in countries where tuition is required, i.e. in particular the English-speaking countries. Foreign universities and colleges have very good marketing budgets in relation to this. What is a little worrying, and which was an important part of the discussion between us from Norway and those from Latin American countries, is that education is free here in Norway, but it costs a little bit more to live here. They have a greater economic challenge in getting to Norway than we have in coming to countries where, according to Norwegian standards, it is very reasonable to live. We have to try to get some good exchange schemes that allow us to get more students from other countries to Norway as well. I also want to remind you that the students choose this themselves. Our task is to motivate them, to facilitate both in terms of one form and the other. As I said, we have a very good study funding system. Some of the most important and most basic things here should have been taken care of. It was also given as feedback to us by Norwegian students who were abroad - they felt that the state was caring for them. It must be the end of this debate. The state will continue to care for Norwegian students and ensure that they are well equipped and learn something abroad, and that several Norwegian students come abroad and bring home knowledge of languages, subjects and culture. At the same time, we sincerely hope that we will also get more foreign students to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07-2.ana.ud1906e707	So the debate is on case No. 4 completed and the current map has been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
