ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e41	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 45 minutes and allocated by up to 10 minutes to the President, up to 5 minutes to each of the main speakers of the other parties and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e48	I want to start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation. The matter we are dealing with today in Odelstinget is important and will have a direct and positive impact on many of our students. The case concerns the extended right to secondary education for adults, the amended placement of the law on adapted training, the introduction of the right to specific language training for minority language pupils in secondary education, the extended mandate of the Parental Committee for Primary School, the extension of the right to sign language training in primary school and the statutory obligation for school owners to provide free fruit and vegetables to pupils. The proposal to extend the right to adult training has been widely supported by the hearing bodies. I want to say that today is a brand day, and it's an important day, because today we're giving everyone the right to higher education. I am pleased that the Department proposes to repeal the rules of the Training Act that only adults born before 1978 are entitled to secondary education. The proposal extends the right for adults from the year they are 25 years old. The reason for establishing an age gap between youth and adulthood is to take into account the fact that adults are in a different situation. However, even young people under 25 years of age may be granted adult rights upon application. It is important that training is adapted to the needs of the individual. This is done, among other things. by looking at the real skills of adults. Legislation on rights is important, but it is also necessary to ensure that everyone is given equal opportunity to exercise their rights and to receive help and support when necessary. To this end, the Committee calls on the Government to contribute to the strengthening of cooperation between the education and training authorities, NAV and the health and care services. The Ministry expects that in the long term, changes in the law will lead to between 800 and 1000 more adults in higher education each year. The amendment of the law will involve an additional cost for the county councils of about 50 million. kr per. years, but there is some uncertainty about the amount. For this reason, the Committee considers it important that the Department should keep an eye on developments. The proposal proposes that minority language pupils in secondary education should be entitled to specific language training, just as those in primary school today. This language training shall be a transitional period until the student has sufficient knowledge in Norwegian to follow the usual training. The Court of First Instance shall primarily apply to specific training in Norwegian, but the law also provides for the right to language and/or bilingual vocational training in addition to the special Norwegian training. In the opinion, the Committee stresses the importance of the school strengthening cooperation with parents and supervisors. It is very important that parents have the opportunity to discuss the development and learning of children with their teachers. The school shall focus on good cooperation between school and home so that parents can contribute to the development and learning of children. It is essential that parents are well informed about what the curriculum contains, understand what to learn, and see the reasons for learning activities. It is important to follow up the new law locally. One of the challenges we also face is to ensure good competence among teachers and professionals. Parental education is important and necessary for very many students. In its proposal, the Progress Party will eliminate the right to parent language training. If you are a non-Norwegian administrator, it is difficult to learn without being able to start with your own language. It is important to know concepts in their own language in order to develop and learn Norwegian well. Being able to speak is also a fantastic and important resource that I as the case-rapporteur will point out. It is important that the students have the right to mother tongue training. The Committee agrees with the proposal that the principle of adapted training be relocated to the Training Act Chapter 1. No proposals are made for changes to the Training Act as regards special education and special pedagogical assistance procedures. This supports the Committee. The Committee also points out that the Mid-Lineg Committee, appointed by the Government, is to carry out an assessment and review with a view to improving the organisation and efficiency of resource use in a future and comprehensive action chain for children, young people and adults in need of special educational assistance. The selection will present its setting next year. It's an important piece of work that the sample does. It's important because we know that too many children in school don't get help when they need it, when they need it. We know that too many children are waiting for help. We know that when many teachers, parents and students ask for help, they have to wait too long for help. The opposition is proposing to speed up the completion of the Midlyng Committee, and I understand that you are impatient. We've put down this sample to get a wide review. I would also like to remind you that this did not happen to the former government. There was no selection to have a broad review of the special educational system. For us, it is important that we also get a very good follow-up, and we promise that we will follow up the selection setting in a good way. Too many students fall from post-secondary education. It may be due to abduction or non-response - they do not complete. It's serious, and we have to take action. One of many measures is the Government’s proposal to extend the term of office of the Parental Committee for Primary School, FUG, to the first stage of secondary education. It is important to make parents closer partners in the transition between all schools, including between primary and secondary schools. The Committee considers it important that parents can be used as good advisers for their children. I would like to refer to the motion for a resolution under B: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up as soon as possible proposals for provisions requiring secondary school to cooperate with parents. ‘... I recommend this proposal for a decision. We believe it is important that we have a legal framework for parental cooperation also in secondary education - this in order to better anchor parental cooperation in secondary education. But let me also take a look back at the previous period, when Clement and the government, consisting of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, proposed to lay down the FUG. Fortunately, this was no reality, which I am very pleased with, because the efforts of the FUG and the parents in school-home cooperation are incredibly important. The Committee agrees with the Ministry's proposal to extend the right to training in and in sign language. If, after expert judgement, the student needs primary schooling in and in sign language, they shall be entitled to do so. This is an important legislative change. In the process, the Committee has been consulted by parents and a hearing opinion has been issued by the Landsförbund of Hearing Officers, claiming that children in need of linguistic development after the CI operation do not have sufficient rights under the Training Act. We have also received enquiries from parents with children who need supplementary and alternative communication. They state that there is a lack of the Training Act in respect of the rights of disabled children who use neither speech nor sign language. The Committee makes it clear in its recommendation that national guidelines and standards for training provision for children with CI surgery should now be developed in order to provide a comprehensive training offer for children with CI surgery. The guidelines and standards must ensure that children with CI surgery to learn speech are offered at the same level as deaf children to learn signs. The Committee is concerned that pupils in need of linguistic development or in need of alternative or supplementary communication are to be guaranteed good rights in the Training Act. I would also like to point out that the Training Act § 5-1 today is intended to guarantee these students the right to specifically organised education. But we know that there are many children who do not get the help they are entitled to under the Training Act. It is important and necessary that the children receive the assistance they require when they need it. Today, the Government is presenting a major message on language training. In dealing with it, government parties will examine this issue in more detail and see if it is necessary to make some legal adjustments to ensure that these children receive the assistance they need. Without food and drink, the hero will not do. - The government parties at Stortinget support the Government's proposal that municipalities be given a statutory obligation to keep free-of-charge fruit and vegetables students at school. The scheme shall apply to all pupils where there are youth, 8-10th level, and combined schools, 1-10th step. Extra funds were allocated to this for 2008 last year. Not all municipalities have spent the money in the intended way, and we now support a proposal to legislate on this. It doesn't cost much, but it's a huge gain, because many kids don't bring food and fruit and green in school. An evaluation of fruit and vegetables shows that it is very popular.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e102	Proposition is primarily a follow-up to previously notified measures. I am not going to comment on everything, but I am going to take for myself an extended right to secondary education for adults, an extended mandate for the FUG, i.e. the Parental Committee for Primary School, and free fruit and greenery. It is gratifying that adults are granted an extended right to secondary education. There is an increasing need for adult education, and it is important that we make greater efforts to do so. There is little doubt that society has a significant reserve of competence that could be triggered if more adults were trained. Many adults today have important real skills that could be transformed into formal skills by relatively simple means. Here, in particular, NAV, local authorities and local working life have a role to play in strengthening their cooperation and exploiting the opportunities available. Another important element in adult education is that it should be possible for a person to provide training in non-school venues to a large extent. Training in a company in cooperation with e.g. NAV, trade union and association of students are proving successful in many places. Too many adults lack basic skills. Although it may appear to be a siding in the debate on higher education, it is in fact that many adults who are given the opportunity to do something about, for example: Reading and writing problems are motivated to move on in the school system. We are also pleased that the Parental Committee for Primary Schools is given an extended mandate to also address issues relating to the first year of secondary education. Not least in relation to the issue of non-response, the transition between secondary and secondary education poses challenges. We believe that an increased focus on school-home cooperation in this respect can be an instrument to reduce the drop-out rate. We're very concerned about reducing the drop-out rate in higher education, so it's just one of several instruments. Other things that can be mentioned in this context are the strengthening of counselling services, the creation of career guidance centres in each country, the programme subject of choice in secondary school and, last but not least, all the positive work done locally. In this regard, I would like to draw up my home country, East-Agder, which has reduced the drop-out in secondary education in some selected schools dramatically in increasing resource efforts and systematic work. Finally, a little bit about fruit and green. The reason why a person chooses to legislate is that some municipalities have chosen to use the funds for other things. We see a link between nutrition and good learning and therefore believe that free fruit and greenery are a good investment to improve learning outcomes and better school outcomes. I can't wait to comment on some of the things that have emerged in previous debates today, which can easily be linked up to what goes on fruit and green. Earlier in the debate today, it has been claimed that fruit and green money could have been used in the context of an interest-rate compensation scheme. In this document, the money is spent on other things. One experiences in the political debate that, in particular, the Left, represented by the representative of Dørum, is high and dark and uses the fruit and green money, which amounts to about 200 million. kr, for a number of purposes. I think it bears witness to little credible use of money from the Left. When one compares it with the bad local economy and the powerful cuts that are likely to be a result if the Left comes back to the government offices, it's simple math to say that several billion less to the municipalities would cost a lot more than if a putter in 210 million. kr in extra measures for municipalities and schools. It is well known in politics that attack is the best defense, but 210 million. So, as the Left will apply to quality improvement measures at school, it will be a peanut compared to what the consequences will be for the municipalities and schools if the Left comes back to the government premises and cuts billions of dollars.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e117	I hope we won't take up too much of the posts that have been earlier today, because I don't think either the representative of the Ruites or the government parties will get out of it very well. This case includes several different legislative amendments, which have very different topics. Some of the themes are not controversial and reach unanimous agreement; others are somewhat more controversial. First of all, I would like to stress the changes in which the Progress Party has a dissenting view from the Government. The Minister of Knowledge has recently been very concerned about what he calls early action. In order to succeed in early schooling, it is essential that students who attend primary school should not wait for months - and years, in fact - in order to obtain the so-called PPT assessment, which is necessary for special education. This, together with some of the opposition parties, has taken this up in the past, and we simply expect, since there were no amendments or measures in this proposition, that one will follow up the opposition's proposal during the year, as intended, and will not take even longer, as the Government signals in the proposition. The Progress Party has an alternative proposal for language training for minority students, with a strong emphasis on the need for proper Norwegian training for students with a foreign language background. Parental education is basically parental responsibility and shall not burden school budgets. Parental training should not take place and one should prescribe sufficient early Norwegian training to allow students to enter ordinary Norwegian education. In budgetary terms, the Progress Party has proposed strengthening the Parental Committee for Primary Schools for very many years. The legislative proposal extends the work force to FUG to the first year of secondary education, and that is good. But it is obvious to the Progress Party that this will lead to the need for increased appropriations for FUG, and we assume that the Government will take that perspective into account in its proposal for a State budget. Actually, money should have been transferred already in the revised form, so that no additional burden is now imposed on FUG without accompanying resources. The resources in FUG are already under pressure, and it is a responsibility that this government should take a closer look at. The government will also extend deafness to sign language training. The Progress Party agrees, and we are pleased about it, but we find it strange that the Government will thus contribute to increasing the discrimination between those who are deaf and who use sign language as their main language, and those who are born deaf but who have been implanted into a cochlea implant. The Progress Party believes that this discrimination is unfair, and we think it is very passive on the part of the Government to refer to existing provisions on special education. Everyone knows that this leads to great discrimination. Many children do not get the full effect of the implant, because they are under-trained and adapted to them. Another student group failed by the Government is students using alternative and supplementary communication, abbreviated to ASK. These students also lack the right to a proper offer. I am amazed that the majority also overlooks this student group, which has particularly major challenges in today's comprehensively integrated school. However, I am pleased that the Progress Party, together with the other opposition parties, is proposing that these CI students and students get their rights under the law in line with the rights of deaf students using sign language. Nutrition is important for pupils’ performance, and the Progress Party will introduce a single school meal for primary school students. It is strange, however, that the Government will legislate a system of fruit and vegetables that currently applies to half the student mass. Lawmaking such a right without full funding of costs would require municipalities to cut other parts of their budgets in order to finance the statutory fruit and vegetable scheme. It is a strange form of political priority when the Government insists on legislating the right to fruit and vegetables for half the student population, but at the same time refuses to legislate on the right to properly organized training for students who are born deaf and who have operated on the CI, or for those who use the ASK. They don't want to legislate, but the right to fruit and green is to be legislated. Nor will this government even assess the lawfulness of the right to care and care for caregivers. The government has gone completely wild in its priorities. We should notice that in this room, but not least those who are outside this hall should take note of the government's strange priorities. This is an incomprehensible and meaningless priority. With this I address the proposals No. 1 and 2 on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left, proposal No. 3 on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party and the proposals No. 4 and 5 on behalf of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e143	The representative Anders Anundsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e146	One of the legislative amendments that has generated the greatest reactions in the proposal from the Government is the proposal to legislate the local authorities' obligation to give the students fruit and vegetables. Local authorities must therefore be forced to prioritize apples rather than use resources to improve school knowledge. It is a proposal that, in the opinion of the Right, clearly shows that the government has a totally wrong focus on school policy and does not have the ability to give priority to what is the school's most important task, namely a good educational offer. For the Right, it's pretty pointless to prioritize spending several hundred million dollars on a free fruit and green system. It is more important to prioritise resources for a good implementation of the Knowledge promise - to more teachers, for better continuing training of teachers, for teaching aids and other measures to improve the learning content of the school and the benefit of the students. To the right, it's natural that it's still the parents' responsibility to make sure that the students have food at school. There are many municipalities that want to use resources more efficiently than the Government will impose on them, and for good reason. Fromand municipality in East Agder is a municipality that was chosen to take care of Regeringa. Rapporteur Sigmund Pedersen of the Central Party is strongly critical of the Government's intervention in local freedom of action, and expresses to the newspaper Our country on 7 April: "We're going to get everything over our heads, it's hard to deal with. When politicians end up on the Stortinget, local conditions forget. It is not that local politicians lack judgment to assess what is best for us. ‘... The right fully agrees with the rapporteur from the centre party. This is a legislative proposal that helps to reduce the ability of local elected representatives to carry out the tasks they give priority to the sea, and rather obliges them to carry out tasks determined by the State. It's pretty incomprehensible from the political history that it's just the Center Party that's in front of such a development. The right will therefore vote against § 13-5 of the Education Act and § 7-1c of the Private School Act. The right considers it appropriate to extend the term of office of the Parental Committee of Primary Schools to include the first stage of secondary education. An important part of the Knowledge promise is to make the transition between youth and higher education more flexible and simpler, and in that work parents also have an important responsibility. We also know from the latest NIFU STEP report Disqualification and competence that came in March this year, that it is just in the transition between the 10th and 1st grade of secondary education that many students experience difficulties that make them not least drop out of secondary education. But to the right, it's a little surprising that the government doesn't at the same time signal that it wants to strengthen the resources of the Parental Committee for Primary School because new responsibilities are now being imposed. The government takes a step in the right direction when it wants to introduce a 25-year rule for the right to secondary education, but the Right believes that everyone who wants it, completely independent of age, should have the opportunity to complete secondary education. The right also supports the proposal to extend the right to training in and in sign language to all students who, after expert judgement, need it. But as the opposition parties have pointed out, only CI-operated children are getting their rights strengthened. That's good, but we need more. For this reason, together with the other opposition parties, the Right has made proposals to ask the Government to propose a change to the Training Act which also guarantees the rights of students who need sign language development or alternative and supplementary communication. I can only join the representative Anders Anundsen's observation of the strange fact that the government wants to legislate a scheme with the local authorities' obligation to offer fruit and green to students, but does not want to legislate a scheme that provides students with different communication needs with the same rights. It's a big paradox for the right. It is positive that minority language students in secondary education should have a separate right to specific Norwegian education. At the same time, it is important to stress that these students should be integrated as quickly as possible into normal Norwegian education. It is totally unsustainable that students, as has been seen in many places, have remained in such an offer for ten years at primary school, and that they experience in practice that the school has had lower ambitions on behalf of the students than on behalf of other students. The school will have the same high ambitions for all students, and it is therefore essential that the school provides all good Norwegian training. Language skills are fundamental to the ability to live in society. Therefore, it is important to do what you can to provide good Norwegian training, but as soon as possible, the students integrate into normal Norwegian education.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e168	The expectations were great for the big message that we dealt with in advance of this proposition. It was supposed to be this government's big performance report. Here the new course of the Government was to be presented. Instead, there were quite a number of beautiful words, but few concrete measures, and unfortunately one follows up with some of the same in this proposition, with some proposals that are good and important, but not far enough. It's going to be almost halfway. I doubt that someone from the government parties will dare to talk about a new course in school policy after that, and I note that, when you talk about a new policy, a new message is now being referred to about quality in school. It is a step in the right direction when the Ministry now proposes to repeal the rule that only adults born before 1978 are entitled to secondary education and instead introduce a 25-year rule. That's good, but in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, we don't go far enough. There are some groups in society that we really want to get back into an educational cycle as quickly as possible. This applies, for example: adults with drug problems in their youth, who may have used up the court at an early age, but who we hope have got to the right cold before they reach the age of 25, and then it would be incredibly important to have an offer for this group. It would have been much more appropriate to take the step fully out, and we therefore propose to amend the training law so that those who want to complete secondary education get a right to such education regardless of age. I am also in favour of the proposal to extend the mandate of the FUG to higher education. However, I believe that the law has to make a greater commitment to each secondary school to cooperation between home and school, while at the same time giving each school/teacher the freedom to organise and structure cooperation according to local circumstances. I am therefore pleased that an overall committee is in favour of asking the Government to draw up proposals as soon as possible for provisions requiring this parental cooperation. But I have to say that I am wondering how the department can feel that the extension of the mandate of the FUG does not have financial or administrative implications. If you are in favour of enlargement, you must also want FUG to play the best possible role in higher education. The extension of the mandate of the FUG would require good contact with the county municipalities. It will require both time and competence. The secondary school will become a completely new area of activity for the FUG, and it will be crucial for the Secretariat to be given a substantial boost as a prerequisite for participating in and contributing to this major extension of the mandate. I also think, with respect to reporting, that it is embarrassing that we in Norway can only have a FUG leader in half. I also support the proposal to extend the right to training in and in sign language. I am also pleased that government parties are involved in stressing the importance of developing national guidelines and standards for training provision for children with CI surgery and that guidelines and standards must ensure that children with CI surgery to learn speech are offered at the same level as deaf children to learn signs. But once again, the government parties are on a good proposal that unfortunately may not go far enough. The children who need linguistic development after a CI operation will not be strengthened by § 2-6. These children are in quite a different situation than children with difficulty reading and writing. For these it is a question of basic communication, and therefore the reference of government parties to special education for this group is not good enough. The aim is for children to become linguistically speaking, and the development of language is also the parent of CI-survived children’s desires. CI-survived children will often function as mild to moderate, with the challenges of such a communication handicap in a training situation. The National Hospital, which carries out most of these operations in Norway and follows up these children after surgery, recommends focusing on linguistic developments. The development of the language will be central to ensuring good linguistic competence, and these children will therefore need a pedagogical offer developing hearing and speech. In order to ensure adequate follow-up in the school system in line with their needs, it is essential that the right to follow-up is ensured through a law. The Christian People's Party has therefore proposed that the Training Act be amended in order to ensure rights for those who choose linguistic development also through legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e183	I am following this debate because I am in the Municipal and Administrative Committee, and some of the main areas of the Municipal and Management Committee are just school and care. Now it's about school, and it's interesting to follow the debate. And then you might be a little bit surprised at some of the sums that thrive in the hall, because it seems like it's the 218 million. kr that determines whether you have a good school or not, and that when we spend it on fruit and green, we don't bet on the contents of the school. That's not the big sum. The big sums, which are the important thing for the promise, for us to carry out what is now here, are just the free revenues and the total income of the local government sector, which has increased by NOK 20.8 billion since the government joined, and is warned to increase by NOK 7 to an extra 7.5 billion in the municipal scheme of the year. The then government parties voted against the first promise in relation to the municipal sector. Then the municipalities would have a completely different starting point from what we gave them the first year we had government power, to run a good school with a well-adapted education. So I think one of them sometimes has to lift up a little bit from looking at its small items, and rather look at the total picture, and then it's 218 million. kr not the large sum - there is a lot of money, but there is a lot more money in the overall municipal scheme. So those who have been so concerned should at least be glad that there has been a government shift that makes the school sector have a better financial framework. Then I want to comment on one more thing, and it's Eriksen Soreide's concern that the Center Party is involved in lawmaking free fruit and vegetables. We promoted a Document No. Eight proposals in the last period just about fruit and vegetables, because we think it's so important for learning and knowledge that students get good food, and that you have a healthy diet and get fruit and vegetables at school. We are sure that this is a good investment for learning and for the everyday lives of each student. So the representatives of Skjälaaen, Haga and Stenberg Ryen put forward a proposal in the last period to introduce a mandatory system of fruit and vegetables, and it is therefore a great pleasure for us to be part of a government that is now putting this in place, initially for the secondary school stage. We also saw from the surveys at the time that it is at the age of the greatest challenges in getting a good diet, and I think it's also wise to spend money on this in relation to prevention -- one thing is in relation to the knowledge we have in school, another thing is prevention. If we can turn the dietary habits of high school students, it's good in terms of diabetes and general health, and it'll serve society as a whole. So I'm sure it's a good social investment also purely economic. So it's a good day for the Center Party - we got a hit for what we couldn't do in the last period, together with two good partners. Then I have a few more comments. We are very much in line with the other parties in terms of the right to language training for minority language students in secondary education - in a transitional phase. It is very important that an emphasis is placed on the transition phase, both in the text from the department and in the setting, because some of the criticisms of the Norwegian 2 training we have had in primary school have been that some have felt locked inside an adapted scheme - just because they have had a different name than a Norwegian sounder - from they are seven years until they leave primary school. What has been a good intention has become a bad shoe. That's why, when we're going to introduce a new system, we have to be very aware that we're not locking people into any arrangements because we think the arrangements are good. I am responsible in the Central Party for the areas of immigration and integration, and have met very many young people with a minority language background, or with a different background than mine, to say it correctly, who have been very worried and tired, and almost angry, because of this adapted training. They have felt that they have been used as a piece and have only been placed in a "Norwegian 2" class - and there they should be - and thus received a B-stamp on their education. So we have to take that with us. This is good, but it is important that we are aware of the fact that both the committee and the department stress that it is in a transitional phase. But as long as we apply it, this is a very good measure. I have some knowledge of sign language and CI, and it's good that there's so much impatience in the hall, and in all parties, to get on with this. What is now happening within the deaf world is a silent revolution that no one had dreamed would happen. The vast majority of children who are born deaf now have the opportunity to learn to talk and hear. It's amazing. Then you can be more or less impatient, but all the parties are at least behind the desire for an escalation, and that's of the good.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e196	First, some comments on some issues in the configuration. The point of extended training is an important point. I think it's a pity that the opposition is alone in wanting to lift the age limit, but with the knowledge you have of the need to have such a right throughout your life, I think it's just a matter of time before the whole hall wants the position that the opposition has. Of course, when it comes to the issue of specific Norwegian training, the Left is involved. We believe that filling in with Norwegian when you are struggling with the language is useful, and my visits to schools in many places confirm that it is correct. So the state council here says, that's good. It is also good that the Committee agrees to strengthen the Parental Committee for Primary Schools and also provide them with legal backing for extending their activities to parts of secondary school. As regards sign language, I also agree with what has been mentioned by previous speakers. The Committee has been able to reach a common agreement on a comment, perhaps the most important of which is that guidelines and standards must ensure that children with CIs to learn to speak should have an offer of the same level as deaf children to learn signs. So it's going to be a little cross-thinking that it's not possible to get the entire committee involved in a legalization of this. Then we have the representative Freddy de Ruiter, who's been planning to give me some sort of party atmosphere before the weekend. Let me say that, that when the red-green marches forward, the mantra is: what can you do with fruit and green and bananas! If you get fruit and green and bananas, you don't have to think about fresh barley. You don't have to give money for interest compensation, because you get any fruit or green. And if you don't have a teacher, you don't have to think about it either, because you get fruit and green anyway. This is not even a joke, because when party traps of me in Western municipalities with slightly narrow municipal budgets - and they are actually also found under the red-green government - will give priority to teachers, yes, then comes the red-green wind, the wintry wind, or what I shall now call it, and say that fruit and green should be it. Everyone should realize that if you have a tight municipal budget, that's what's most important. In fact, it's most important to have many enough and good teachers, and it's most important to have fresh construction, but the whip works so well that even before the legislation votes red-green parties on the local level down the desire from, for example. Left and other opposition sections here in the hall to secure more teachers than fruit and green. So in terms of the money in this area, the left is very clear: we're using money to recruit teachers, because it doesn't do the red-green government. We're going to fight for it until they do. We spend money building skills for teachers. This is done by the red-green government by holding an agreement from the government of Bondevik II, which was concluded between the local government's central government and the educational organizations - and then the council boasts that he will keep the agreement. Of course he's gonna have to make the deal. But the struggle is not about such an agreement, it says whether or not we should have further training for teachers, and it is systematically downgraded. And it's no more eye-catching than that in Oslo it's possible for the Left and Christian People's Party to get a City Council of the Right and the Advance Party to participate in a teacher's vow of systematic further education. But when you're going to bring with you such an experience from one meeting locally between the 'right-right', I kept saying, and the center, it's not possible to get the red-green in the hall to move to any point other than that they dream of a big message coming at some point. And in this big message, it's the very Soria Moria that's going to be revealed to us all, if we haven't now seen the document from scratch. The representative of the Ruites can take it easy. He can be absolutely sure that signed and others are going to bother the red-green government about teachers -- the number of teachers, how many we're going to have -- until they give up, and we're going to talk about fruit and green and use it as agitator points with great joy and with great find. And with such cheerful recordings that we get from the representative de Ruiter, it just reinforces the fighting spirit. In the red-greens, the law fixing of fruit and greens replaces almost everything else. I never thought you'd get a kind of suckler or something like that from eating fruit and green, that you would get a rush of it, but the representative de Ruiter has managed to show me in the staging room that it's quite possible. I don't need any rush, I just need to stick to the simple point that we need teachers. Then we need a national recruitment plan for teachers, and we need systematic further education for teachers -- and I know we don't get it from the red-green ones. We need fresh barley, and we don't get interest compensation from the red-green ones. That is why the Left is voting with great joy - for politics is about prioritizing - against a law of fruit and greenery, and we are giving a handshake to those of our party traps who, with the urge of the municipal economy, will actually give priority to teachers, but are not allowed by the red-green majority locally. This was an important and correct dividing line. I am very grateful to Freddy de Ruiter for giving me this chance to live out my legend from the pulpit. [[muttering in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e215	Clearly, we are going to meet for an exciting time!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e219	In Ot.prp. No The government has proposed various changes to training laws and private schools. We propose an extended right to further training for adults. The bill will allow all those who do not benefit from the right to further training as a youth to receive further training as from the year they reach the age of 25. Today it is only a grown-up birth before 1978 that is so right. I have also made suggestions that young people who want to do so may receive further training according to the rules that apply to adults. Young people between the ages of 20 and 23 will be able to receive training that is better suited to their situation in life. It is true, as has been said here from this chair, that this means that everyone now has the possibility of an offer of further training. Then we propose that minority-speaking students in secondary education should be entitled to specific language training, just as minority-speaking elephants today already have in the primary school, and I am glad that there is a great deal of excitement about it. We suggest that the elephants in the primary school should be entitled to training in and in sign language. Each of the basic school shall be entitled to training in and in sign language upon proposals if, after expert judgement, they need such basic school training. Today, only elephants with sign language as the first language have such a right in the base ball. In further training, each student already has such a right as is currently being proposed to the elephants in the primary school. Several hearings suggest that there is a lack of training laws in the case of the rights of the disabled who can neither speak nor sign language. Others point out that there is a similar lack of laws in relation to children in need of linguistic development after a CI operation. They relate to something other than the bill that extends the right to sign language training, and I would like to stress that the training law, with the law on special education, currently guarantees students the right to specially organised training – as much special education as necessary. Then we propose to extend the mandate of the parental selection of the basic school to include the first years of further training. I have chosen the Committee's proposals here for our further work. We also propose a change in the location of the appropriate training regulations. Then we propose a statutory obligation for the school owner to give the elephants free fruit and vegetables. Here I thought it was interesting to see the opposition party's position, because the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party are for this action, but they disagree with the Government that we are going to introduce a legalization of it. First of all, I want to say that I'm very happy that we get this measure, because that means that there's now a broad majority in the Stortinget that thinks it's important that the students get the supply of fruit and green in the school -- that diet plays a role in learning. Then we disagree on the law, and that is to the extent an important discussion. I believe that if there is to be an offer that goes to all the elephants in the youth school and in the 1-10th stage, it has to be legalized. If we think it should be an equal offer to everyone across the country, we have to do it. Right has-- we're familiar with that from before-- always be against offering fruit and green to school elephants, and that's an honest and tidy point of view. But I think it's a little interesting to ask the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party: if we were to get a civil plural on the Stortinget once in the future, can the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party guarantee that the elephants in the Norwegian school will keep their important offer of fruit and green, or will they let Right take from the students and parents fruit and green in the school? Nevertheless, there is the Left, I thought, which has the most interesting point of view in this case, because in its comments left wrote that these are actions 'that have no documented effect'. On the other hand, the programme of the Left for the period 2005-2009 states: ‘Good nutrition is important for creating a soil for learning. ‘They further state that ‘it is the responsibility of parents and students to provide food at school’, whereas the Left Programme states: ‘Left wants to introduce a free school meal in primary school. ‘... Yeah, what happened? Well, you can think of different things. There is a possibility that will be logically consistent: of course, the Left will have a school meal, but not with fruit and green. There shall be food other than fruit and green in the school meal. And then one might also think of another possibility, that there is another research that now says that health food is not important anyway. Or one might think that the Left has not been passed through for its view in the Left fraction. In SV e.g. We are for free scouring food, but in the Soria Moria declaration we only got through for fruit and green, and therefore have to implement it. But the most likely thing is that the left, like in many other school questions, doesn't want to be left, but rather to be right, and has gone away from its point of view and rather want to support the Right's policy on it too.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e242	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e245	First, a remark to the Council of State's posts, because I find it strange that a Council of State that makes so many different and partly important amendments to the Odelsting, spends most of its time criticising and challenging others. There should perhaps be room for the Council of State to explain the reasons why the Government prioritizes as they do, for example. with regard to the legal attachment of fruit and green for half the student mass. I think it's important to clarify it, even though the Council of State sometimes gives the impression of something else. I was a little provoked by the Council of State's intervention in one area, because the Council of State says that children who have been implanted into cochlea implants, and children who use ASK in school, have secured their rights through the right to special education. So we know that there are an unusually large number of examples that show that the council is wrong about the practical implementation of those rights, and there is also a unanimous committee comment here saying that the guidelines and standards need to ensure these rights better. Can the Council of State guarantee that he will return to Stortinget with a proposal that will ensure this in a better way?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e252	I would first like to say that I have noticed those comments, and of course I will follow them up. Then it is important to say that there is a clear, statutory obligation to provide special education for all of them when they have a CI implant, and adequate special education to get the training they need. But it's absolutely right that we're in the situation that it's not always followed up well enough. There are, for example: example that the elephant has only been given two hours a week. It's too little. One must have a far better offer. But it's the practical follow-up that's not good enough, and I'm working on this through supervision, resources and other ways. So the foundation for the legalization of fruit and green, as I said in my post, is that if we were to get an offer that includes all the elephants in Norway, we were forced to introduce such a law. That's why I think that's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e263	On April 14 this year, I spent a whole day in Skien visiting different schools, talking to the school management around and teachers. They were in a rather desperate situation, because the municipality of Skien has received 1 million. to fruit and vegetables for high school students, and they desperately need to employ more teachers. They need the money to hire more skilled teachers. They're not allowed to do that. I just want to ask the Minister of Knowledge why he has to force the municipalities to choose fruit and green rather than hire more teachers, when that's where the need is out in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e270	It's the students and what they get to be in the center. This is why we have allowed large sums of money for the municipalities that have also been used in schools throughout the country, just to allow the municipalities to add more teachers to learn more. For the same reason, we have invested in the development of skills for teachers and free learning material in secondary schools. But it's also the same reason that we're introducing a legal system of fruit and vegetables. I think that part of the broad picture that creates good learning is that one has a good diet in the school. We know that fruit and green and a healthy diet are among the things that together with good barley and not least the most important, many enough and competent teachers, lay a good foundation for the learning ball. That is the background to the bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e275	I can promise the Council of State that fruit and green, which is important, will not be the most important thing we will negotiate if we come into negotiations to get back into position. It is not the most important debate in Norwegian school, although fruit and greenery are important. Then I have responded to that line to me in the articles of the Council of State--even though it tends to be the opposite in this room. The Norwegian people have recently become familiar with Theo. The parents of Theo have fought a pretty hard battle for his rights: to learn basic communication after he got a CI implant. Unfortunately, those parents are not the only ones. I believe this is about political will - that what you want you can do. Will the Council of State help parents by taking that right attachment so that not every parent has to fight for their child to learn basic communication?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e284	Today, we have a statutory right to special pedagogical assistance in pre-school age and special education in schools for children who have operated on a cochlea implant, so that they will be given adequate education in addition to that in Norwegian. So I also know that there are examples that children receive far too little special pedagogical training in kindergarten and too little special education in school. I think it's primarily about resources, supervision and follow-up, because that law enforcement is in place. But the two hours that we found out Theo had, in the TV show that was referred to here, it's too bad. So I thought it was a clear clarification from Eriksen's representative that the Christian People's Party can in no way guarantee that the system of fruit and green should continue, but on the contrary opens to sacrifice her.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e291	There's an obvious misunderstanding!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e296	As far as I know, you're in the SV's program against grades and against national tests. Governments are for both grades and national tests. Adapting to reality -- that's fine. As far as the left is concerned, we have a programme for fruit and vegetables, but we have a national meeting that says that when we have to give priority to teachers, we give priority to fruit and vegetables. When we have to prioritize, we give priority to fresh buildings rather than fruit and greenery. What is the real conflict is the conflict between priorities carried out by SV, which have a lot of desires, and which in practice chooses fruit and vegetables and several hours in school rather than further training of teachers, rather than interest compensation for construction. The left has recognized, after we went to the elections, that we had to give priority. So at the national meeting, we decided that we were giving priority to teachers over fruit and vegetables. Then we want to know which message, for example. The Council of State will give to those who sit in Askvoll municipality and try to choose teachers over fruit and green and who are told by the red-green that they will not do so within the framework of a narrow economy. What is the greeting of the Council of State to the people elected in Askvoll?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e305	Local authorities have been given a clear message about giving priority to care, schooling, kindergarten - the central tasks of well-being. But what's new with our government is that they've also got resources that enable them to prioritize the different tasks and not have to stand in the situation they were in when the representative Dørum put in government, namely that a lower priority transfer to the municipalities, thus depriving both school and care. That is why there has also been another development when it comes to the number of teachers, which is extremely important. So that's how we both find room to prioritize 375 million. For the development of the skills of teachers in the school, we find room to give priority to five new sculetimar this year, and we find room to prioritise free teaching material in further education and fruit and greenery. In other words, what distinguishes us in the government from the opposition is that we find space for a broad set of priorities within school policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e314	The main findings of the selection surveys in the East show that almost 15 pst. ends before they are completed in upper secondary and 20 pst. implements without being a member of all disciplines. There are different reasons why someone falls from or does not exist. What is the reason why the Government doubts that there must be an age limit related to the right to secondary education and the possibility to complete it? The concept of lifelong learning is very much discussed. Is there just something the government uses in party speeches, or are they going to give it real content? Here we have today an overall opposition that, along with the trade union movement, wants everyone to be there. Why won't the government join in and remove the age limit?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e321	What we're actually doing now is just introducing a right to further training for everyone. We're changing the law so that it applies to anyone over the age of 25. But in addition to that, we are adding an extended course for those who are 20-24 years of age, so that they can receive further training. So with the setup we now have, we get for the first time a possibility for everyone to take further training, but with different anchors in the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e326	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e331	I feel the need to have a clarifying round in relation to a part of that opposition that SV and the Government are doing. Firstly, I would like to point out the change in the law in relation to the right to sign language education in primary school. It is such that sign language is defined as a separate language in line with Norwegian, German, English, etc. Therefore, these students are not affected in the same way as all others of the Training Act §5-1. That is why it is important for these to have their own law-enforcement. Then the government parties in the setting have written that in connection with the language message that was presented today by the Government, we will come back to the students who need linguistic development or for alternative or supplementary communication. These students are anchored in the law, in the Training Act § 5-1 today. But we want to spend time at Stortinget's review of it to see if there are any adjustments to the law that should be made, or whether it is such that there is only the follow-up and the anchoring that are needed to implement the right that they have. So we will have a good and broad review of this in the context of the big message that the Committee is now about to deal with. So for free fruit and green. I travel a lot around schools. In a lot of schools I get met with fruit and green. Teachers and employees say that this is extremely important for the learning of the students. Changes are seen after the government has introduced fruit and vegetables. In some schools, I have met with student counsellors and students who have opened empty refrigerators. They've been out in the media, they've demonstrated and worked up against the municipalities to get fruit and green again, because this is important. Now the signal from the Government and government parties is that the students can spend their time on completely different things, because we're going to make sure that fruit and vegetables are introduced into all the schools of the country. This is important because we want to strengthen knowledge in school, because fruit and green are important to promote learning. So it is also that we have allocated extra money to this. This is money that we have added to the budget. This does not apply to the ordinary budgets of the municipalities. We've added the more than 200 million that this costs in addition to the budget. So this doesn't matter to other things.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e344	I understand that the arguments are relatively thin, especially from the Left and the rest of the opposition, when you talk about that it's fruit and green money of 210 million. which is essential for having a good school or not. Then it's important to realize that we have actually spent $20.8 billion kroner plus plus on the municipalities, on free learning material, free fruit and green, and passed on a number of other relevant things in school, etc. I could frame up a long list. The point is that we're spending money on welfare rather than on taxes. That's why we have room to do all of these things at the same time. I am also surprised that during this debate the representative Dørum has been able to spend the 210 million on the interest compensation scheme, school material, more teachers, further training for teachers, more homework, etc. As I see it, the representative uses that money up to several times. What's interesting to notice, though, is that the left when they have power, they do something quite different than bet in school. The left is the tax play party in front of the school party. They showed that the last time they were in government. I feel that what we see today from the Left - I was told that I should not characterise the representative Dørum and Left as high and dark - it must well be characterized as the ‘new clothes of the emperor’.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e353	I choose to raise myself above the slightly light rhetoric of the last speaker, and rather concentrate on what I took the word to say. The council tried, after our exchange of lines, to conclude that the Christian People's Party would not guarantee fruit and greenery. I'm just repeating what I said -- maybe the council can hear it this time: I can guarantee that we're very happy that we finally got a discussion about Norwegian school about more than food, about more than fruit and green. I recorded that when that debate went as far as the last time, there was a look in the newspapers that the Council of State thought we were now driving and black-painting Norwegian school. We have welcomed that debate incredibly. We think fruit and green is important. We have given a clear indication of that in the setting. But it is not the most important debate around Norwegian school today. That's my point. I can promise that when we go into negotiations to get back to power -- which we've done quite many times in our party's history -- we're going to focus on the important things. That doesn't mean that fruit and green are important. I have in the media praised the government -- maybe I wasn't so clear here in the hall -- that it agrees to provide guidelines for CI-operated children. That's better than what the proposition adds up to. But when it comes to legislating the right to sign language, I believe that what the representative Jensen says is initially correctly heard. The difference is that for sign language users as well as CI-operated children, this is about basic communication, not whether they have learning difficulties, but whether they should be able to communicate with other people on a daily basis. That's why this is about that we need to get a law for these children too so that they can communicate in everyday life. We have too many examples of children and parents who have disabilities in their families having to fight this fight. Because there is a struggle for special educational means, and many children have challenges. This group needs basic communication, and it needs to be put in place. That's why I've had such a strong commitment to this. And my pathos are going to lie in it, and not in fruit and green. I'm going to promise that from now on and forever to use a Christian People's Party language.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e365	Yes, we all have our languages.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e368	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his thorough work. I did not get that done, and I got packing for it. But I'm doing it now, at least it's okay. Then I would say that the representative Eriksen's posts from the pulpit were almost the same as I was going to hold, so then I'm going to have time to add up. I'm a little surprised that the Council of State refers to ordinary special education for children using ASK and cochlea implants. I think it is too serious for one to lean back and say that we see that there are some people who are offered two hours, and that it is too bad, but we cannot do anything special about it. It is simply an unacceptable attitude, because this is affecting the children who are actually suffering from it today. We're trying to make sure that children who have cochlea implants and use ASK get the best possible benefit from the education they need, and then experience shows that today's system doesn't lead to them getting it. So the council says it's a little bit gross, but it's not big we can do with it. The entire opposition agrees to do something about it more than what the government is doing. And it's the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party that have fought it out. Then there'll be a fruit and green discussion again. I said in the change of lines that I think it's strange that the Council of State keeps pointing out that if this is going to be an arrangement for everyone, it has to be legalized. Let me say again, this is not a scheme for everyone. This is a system for half the student mass. It could be nice if the Council of State told us when this would be an arrangement for everyone. For now, you're going to legislate a system that currently applies to half of the student mass, and that's what you're most proud of. The representative Lena Jensen says that she travels a lot around schools, and that the teachers then tell her that this with fruit and green is extremely important for the learning of the students. But it's obviously not so extremely important that all students should be entitled to it - at least not according to the Council of State. So the Council of State Christian People's Party and the Party of Advancement challenge whether we can guarantee that the system of fruit and vegetables will continue if we are to be in position after 2009. I am tempted to answer it this way: we can guarantee as much as SV guaranteed the voters in 2005 that the children would have the choice between chicken and fish at school. The result is a banana and a cucumber. Then you should listen carefully when Freddy de Ruiter characterizes others. I think I should leave it, because it is difficult to do so within the limits of parliamentary practice. But it is not the Progress Party and the opposition that have thin arguments. That's the position that has. The reason why they don't break up the long list he claims to have is because it doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e386	Let me first say that I have a certain obligation that someone in the hall will be allowed to reach the plane, so I'll try to act afterwards. I concentrate on the following cash case information: Priorities in politics mean putting something first -- put something in front of something else, so that what comes first comes first, comes first. Among other things, I do. taught by Olof Palme, who in his time said that politics is about to -- and I have faith that politics is about to choose. So that means that when the Left wants a systematic further education for Norwegian teachers, at the same time we won't have five new hours in primary school. And if you look at the calculation, it actually goes pretty well-- and then you did. Now, when we don't want fruit and vegetables, but we want interest-rate compensation, it's going well within a budget. So we can at the same time make it clear that we are in order to have a good diet policy, so we have gone in to eliminate VAT on fruit and vegetables. That is what we believe to be an entirely correct consideration and a proper policy. What's at the heart of the debate we've had here is not that everyone wants a lot of things, but what you want in what order, and what's most important. The representative Freddy de Ruiter has perceived the Left quite right, that we will give priority to teachers, teachers' further education, many enough teachers, and we will give priority to fresh construction. And then there's the fight about what you want to do first. At these points, the left puts something different first than the red-green, and especially when the SV, does in this context. When it comes to industrial policy, I'm not going to do it far, except to say the following: it was up to the Bondevik II government to ensure a business policy that would allow it to grow in business. At the end of that period, we got a tax increase that was the result of a good interest rate development in the country. We got a development where the actual tax relief to business made it quite pressurised, and we still have. What we have received afterwards is a situation in which money is transferred to the municipalities at the same time as they are consumed by wages, while interest rates are rising, which has led to a record number of red-green rapporteurs not being aware of what is now being said in this Chamber by the Red-Green representatives and the Councils of State. That is, we're about to get into an evil circle, where money to the municipalities no longer gives freedom, but feels tied up. In that situation, because it's tight, I drew the example from Askvoll, where someone would actually prioritize teachers first, as everyone in this room will, also the red-green government. But they didn't get that from the red-green group locally, because they want fruit and green. So that's an expression of not dreaming away, but real choices that take place. In the real elections, the Left has a national meeting decision, because we have then realised that during this process of enlargement with a government that does not ensure us enough teachers who do not prioritize further education, we must at least give priority within our framework. And as a responsible party, we have then chosen to put more teachers and fresh barley in front of fruit and vegetables and in front of several hours. At the same time, we have understood that sympathetic measures are sympathetic, but the order is ready for us. So I'm not going to comment on any kind of dress suit, because it would extend the meeting very far. I'd better get out of the pulpit with peace of mind.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e401	That's good to hear.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e404	I just have to repeat that the most obvious difference is that the red-green government can afford and wants to prioritize a wide range of different things in school, and do it today -- fruit and green, free learning material, but also several hours, as it is this year, and also a great level of competence within the school for teachers in the form of continuing education. In addition, we have given a completely different municipal economy, so that Norwegian municipalities and county municipalities can invest in the school in a completely different way than they did in the previous period. One in this room can get the impression - from the representative of Dørum and others in the opposition - that the opposition makes proposals for billions of yokes to the municipal sector, which can then give more teachers. But they haven't. The main picture is that the left and the other parties have supported the municipal economy that we've had over the last few years, which has been a significant improvement of the past period. I repeat that I listened carefully to the comments made by the representative Eriksen. I wondered if I had heard wrong, but I understood that I had heard what I actually believed, that the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party are some of the Governments in the measure that is fruit and green, which means that there is broad support for it. But they still open up so that it can be negotiated away, so that we cut that well-being in the next period. It is important for Norwegian parents and elephants to know that the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party are quite clear - as they put it - that they will give priority to the important things in the school, implicitly: this is one of the things that are not so important, and that can be quickly negotiated away and lost as a good thing in the next period if the Christian People's Party, Right, Left and Advance Party get multiple numbers. My vision is that the great, important efforts of the elephants to learn more and to get a better school are entirely superior. That's why we give priority to competence development and a better local economy, which can give more teachers, more hours and other things. But fruit and greenery is also an important well-being – providing better nutrition, which provides the basis for better learning. And then, finally, I'm very happy that there's a whole lot of agreement about, not about all the details and in all the parties, but about the direction of, very many of the important proposals that have been made today. It is a proposal for further training, for minority and others. Many of them have a background in St.meld. No 16 for 2006-2007. That message just focused on the importance of early efforts against the elephants, but also on the fact that there is never too late an effort towards those who are tired, and that one should therefore ensure that everyone is given the best possible offer of a good schooling. Many of the suggestions here will mean a lot for individuals. For example, many who do not currently have the right to further training will be able to obtain it and use it to increase their competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e420	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 467]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e436	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e445	Social security is a unique system, a system of solidarity, where we stand up for each other in different parts of life. I think I've already said from this pulpit that when the history of the development of Norway into a welfare society is to be written, it is likely that the date 1 January 1967 will go into history as the most important date: the introduction of popular fear. When the innovation saw the current light in 1967, the retirement age was 70 years. From 1 January 1973 it was put down to 67 years. But still the legislation was kept so that one could earn the pension of a 70-year-old. And so it is today. That is why a legislation was established on how much one could earn next to the pension - a regulation that is quite different, but which has been in place for 35 years. I have to make it clear that since 1973, one as a pensioner has been able to earn as much as one wants. But there have been, and are, rules for how much to earn while retaining a full pension in addition to your salary, for the years between 67 and 70. From the age of 70, there are no restrictions. The legislation has been amended several times. In the past, the sum of pensions and income should not exceed previous income. One could earn the equivalent of the basic amount of popular fear, 1 G. Then 50 pst. of excess up to previous employee income abbreviated so that a total was not to exceed previous employee income. Later it was liberalized. From 1 January 1997, I believe it was, the legislation became so that one could serve up to 1 G, and then got a shortening of excess. From 2002 onwards, it was further liberalised so that one could earn twice the basic amount of the population’s fear, without reducing the pension. The abbreviation percentage was originally 50. Now it's 40. So there's a whole bunch of changes that have happened in how much you can make in addition to the pension. The amount is the amount that has been changed. But it has never changed for the coals between 67 and 70 years - before 1 January 2008. For now, 67-year-olds can earn unlimited, without reducing the pension. The curtailment code for 68 and 69-year-olds remains. Three of the four parties that are behind today's bill of representation have been in government several times since 1973, so nothing has happened to which year's reduction rules are to apply until now this year. Today's legislation is considered unreasonable by many. One must be both deaf and blind in order not to register it. But I want to clarify, no one loses financially working alongside the pension. If the income from work is over two times the basic amount of the population's wealth, 2 G, which is NOK 133 000 today, the pension will be reduced by 40 pst. of the part of the income exceeding NOK 133 000. One will in any case come out better financially if a job is alongside the pension. However, the legislation has been highly debated and that is why we amended it from 1 January 2008. Everything that's popular costs money, whether it's never so reasonable to do it. The net cost to the State of the change from 1 January this year for 67-year-olds is 125 million. kr. In principle, there is an increase in the cost of popular welfare, but more jobs, and thus the state takes more into account tax. One estimates that the net cost for the 67-year-olds is 125 million. SEK, for the 68-year-old in the order of 105 million. kr net and for the 69-year-olds of 85 million. kr. Then we'll see what we can do in the 2009 state budget. Finally, I would like to stress that from 2010 all the curtailment rules for all pensioners will disappear. Then everyone can earn exactly what you want, when you want, without reducing your pension. It's gonna be okay!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e464	It is a pleasure that the representative Sverre Myrli has registered that today's system is unfair, because then I will not use energy to explain it to him again. The background to the proposal for a representative is the desire to improve labour incentives for the 68- and 69-year-olds and thereby increase access to labour in Norway. Older people represent an important resource in the labour market, and at a time of high demand for skilled and experienced labour, all must be stimulated to work, even after reaching their retirement age. The maintenance of the pension curtailment for the 68- and 69-year-olds will be to maintain a scheme that is age-discriminatory. The Government removed from the government budget for 2008 the income testing rules for 67-year-olds. It is very strange to remove the curtailment rules only for 67-year-olds, and it still makes sense that 68-year-olds and 69-year-olds should have their pension cut off from their income at work. The party noted that the Government’s argument to remove the rules for shortening the retirement pension for 67-year-olds was to encourage older workers to stay longer in work. This cannot be seen as anything other than that the sitting government does not want to stimulate 68- and 69-year-olds to work longer. The Progress Party has also noted that Minister for Labour and Inclusion Bjarne Håkon Hanssen wrote in his reply letter of 9 April 2008: ‘Elder workers represent a significant resource in working life, and I therefore agree that it is important to stimulate increased labour input among older people. ‘... The Council of State further writes: «The suspension of the income test is a cost question and the government chose to give priority to 67-year-olds in the context of the 2008 government budget. ‘... The state economy made a profit in 2007 of about DKK 400 billion, and the latest estimates from the Ministry of Finance show that the surplus in the state economy for 2008 will be about DKK 500 billion. The party to the progress is aware that the Government’s hearing notes on the generation and withdrawal of a new age pension propose that the income test on old age pension be completely suspended in 2010. In view of this, it seems strange to me that you cannot afford to encourage the 68- and 69-year-olds to work longer for the years 2008 and 2009, but that you can clearly afford it when you get to 2010. I refer to the proposal in the vote. So if the majority wants to, you can eliminate the injustice of 68 and 69 years of age being retired. The representative of Sverre Myrli is then satisfied with his wishes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e492	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e495	It was very interesting to hear from the case-rapporteur Sverre Myrli's very agitative contributions, in which he described the introduction of the popular peace on 1 January 1967 as one of the really great milestones in the construction of the welfare community. Yeah, he's probably got that right in a lot of ways. And then we had a civil government. It may be a small greeting from Sverre Myrli to Party Secretary Kolberg, who believes that the origin of the welfare society is a social democratic invention and invention. But enough about it. I don't think we should turn this issue into anything other than it is, namely whether we should now take a sensible approach a little early on in relation to the introduction of a pension reform for which there is a broad political consensus. We are now in a situation where there is an acute shortage of labour in most areas of society. At the same time, we know that if the pension reform is to be a success, it is absolutely essential that more people choose to work longer. Then I think this is one of the best and most important tools you can have to ‘learn up’ the seniors that it makes sense and also economically profitable to work longer, because it is the new system that comes on 1 January 2010, which starts a small thief. I think the letter from the Council of State to the Committee when we dealt with the matter was very interesting, because if you read it carefully - and I have done so - it is really a coherent argument as to why this should actually be done. In the long run, the Council of State is moving towards describing that the financial costs are also very modest. For 68- and 69-year-olds, it starts with a gross cost of 300 million. kr, reduced by 115 million. NOK in increased tax revenue. Then you're down to 185 million. kr. Then, in his letter, the Council of State comes with the following: ‘According to the report, there is reason to believe that the abolition of the income test will lead to increased labour input, but not so much that the additional expenditure on pensions will be fully offset by increased tax revenue on labour income and pension payments. ‘... That means that the real cost is significantly lower than the net one expects, at 185 million. kr. So it's that what it finally had to be, I have considerable faith that the dynamic effects will be so strong that the net cost will be very, very modest. Finally, there is a question of priority. So the government has now chosen not to give priority to this. Of course, the government is free - the majority that it has - to choose not to do so, but I suspect the government will do as we have seen in many other cases, including in this matter before, you vote down good proposals from the opposition, then you wait a few months, and then identical proposals are promoted again as your own proposals. Well, well, there's something that says that it's the power that's coming, but we're going with and we're going to be ready with press releases and performances for the fall when or if this had to come as a suggestion. At least there is no reason to wait to implement this proposal; it is over-mature. And when it hasn't been done before -- Myrli took a 40-year perspective backwards: it wasn't until spring 2005 that we got the first pension agreement, which was confirmed a year ago, and so it's in the very recent years that we've had an acute need for new labour, and it's become a significantly better and more focused on how important it is to take care of the seniors' workforce and competences. Now at least there's every reason to do it, if it hasn't been done before.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e513	For those who have been sitting as opposition politicians when the Right has been in government, it is an unknown tactic that good proposals have been voted down that have since appeared as government policy. So that might be something new. The representative Engeset says that this is a matter of priority. Then I'll say, yes, it has been. It is not that someone does not see that it makes sense to do this, but it is a question of what money has been used for within the budget framework that is. This is also a matter of taking action so that more people can get to work or work. Then I just want to remind you that the government has given priority to keeping up the level of action for the unemployed. This is also a very important issue in today's labour market in order to provide work and to ensure that more people can get income from which they can live. In that budget, the right cut 160 million. kr, and the Progress Party has cut 187 million. in respect of the measures taken against the unemployed. It matches roughly what the cost of such a proposal represents. I am not afraid to say that on the SV side, this has been a priority issue, and we have prioritised resources for action towards the unemployed over this proposal, which is also positive and good. Then I want to say it's not that you don't think this makes sense just for the 67-year-olds, and not for the 68- and 69-year-olds. No, there has been a prioritisation of scarce funds in this area. As far as the new system is concerned, there is a general principle that has been put into that system, that you have to be able to make as much money as you want in addition to the age pension in the population. I think it's important to clarify it, because there's no decision on anything else yet, so it doesn't stick to the idea that it's decided that it can apply to all pensions in the future. We have not taken a decision on that. But there it has been implemented as a horizontal principle, and it is therefore a wish that this system should be what is in force. In the meantime, we're going to have to struggle with this hole that's lying there, and most of us have had quite a lot of calls with strong desire to change it. However, at least on the SV side: in the budgetary priorities that have been achieved in this area, we have clearly prioritised labour market measures for the unemployed rather than changing the rules for this entire pension group. There was no room for that, and we felt that the level of intervention was more important.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e526	The next speaker is Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund, then State Councillor Håkon Bjarne Hanssen - State Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e529	It's not easy with names. I'm glad that at least my turn was right now! I'm not going to spend time repeating the arguments that the Prom and Right speakers have already given to eliminate the income testing for 68 and 69 year olds. I think the government's representatives also see that it's not very easy to explain that you can work without shortening the pension when you're between 67 and 68 and after age 70, but not when you're between 68 and 70. It is also not easy to find a good reason why such an income test must be carried out in 2008 and 2009, but not from 2010. There is also some obvious link between this and the Prime Minister’s post-famous pledge to the pensioners. What of course is the challenge is to find room on the state budget to take away the income test. The truth is as simple as that in the year's budget, the Government found room for removing the income test for 67-year-olds, but chose to give priority to other purposes rather than completely removing the income test for all pensioners. The Christian People's Party had, as you know, a different and, in my opinion, a better priority, where the income test had been removed in its entirety. But budgetary priorities are at least a coherent justification from the Government. And I think the representative Karin Andersen now admits it. At the same time, I would also like to say to the representative Andersen that I am pleased that there was now more money for labour market measures for those who need a longer run to get back to work, which the Christian People's Party has called for and also granted money. One shall be careful to predict, especially about the future, in a saying. But I – and many with me – will probably be very surprised if the Government does not continue to take the income test for at least the 68-year-olds in the 2009 budget, as the case-law rapporteur, Sverre Myrli, suggested. But if it's still in the cards, shouldn't this group -- the 67-year-olds of the year -- know that already? Why is there unnecessary uncertainty until the budget proposal on what is still in the cards? Regardless of this, the Christian People's Party believes that the removal of the income test is too slow. It goes too slowly whether official statements are made, or lack of such, or unofficial assumptions are taken into account. Therefore, the Christian People's Party, together with the other opposition parties, is behind the demand that the income test be abolished in its entirety from 1 July 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e546	I shall be very brief, because I feel that what is needed to be said in this matter is said. I also very much agree with what the rapporteur said about the history, and join in the assessments that have been made, as explained by the committee leader. It's a matter of priority, and then it's clear that I'm not in doubt that this has positive effects, but it has to be weighed against other urgent tasks at all times. Now we are working intensively on the 2009 budget, and these are among the issues we absolutely have to assess. But the budget is not finished until it is finished, and then we will respond to the challenges that come from the opposition when we present the budget for 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e551	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e555	It is gratifying that we have come into the position that all of us here clearly agree that it is wise to get the 68- and 69-year-olds back to work, and that at the end of the day it boils down to this being a budgetary question - a priority, in other words. Last year, we had $400 billion in surplus on the state budget. We're adding that it's going to be approx. 500 billion dollars this year, probably it'll be even more. We know it's $300 million. kr to implement this minus increased tax input -- we get a net sum of 185 million. kr. Then my question is, what will lead to the most pressure in the economy? Is it spending 185 million. Do more of the oil money in the State budget, or is it that the pressure in the labour market is increasing even more?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e564	We relate to the fact that it is the sum of public money that helps to determine the pressure in the Norwegian economy. I am completely fascinated by the arguments put forward by the Progress Party. In the last growing period, the Progress Party made a budget together with the government in three out of four budgets. When the Party of Advancement put its power in its hands, it could really push the government and really turn its priorities over where it was most important for the Advancement Party. There wasn't a problem with this when the Progress Party had power. As soon as the Progress Party loses power, you are very concerned about prioritizing, and then you come up with the proposals. But when the Progress Party had power, it was cheaper spirits, cheaper taxes on caravans, cheaper taxes on motorcycles and the kind of things that were prioritised. So it wasn't given five flat ears to this when the Progress Party had power. These are the realities behind the way in which the Progress Party operates budgetary policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e571	It's interesting to listen to the history of the Workers' Party. Because when we were in that position that we had so-called power, we promoted countless proposals that were similar to this. When we were in budget negotiations, that was actually how we got a pass on something, among other things. We focused on one of the important things we've been thinking about for a long time, namely the coordination between single and married pensioners, so they got a better time. Unfortunately, we did not get through everything we wanted, in exactly the same way that the Labour Party in its budget negotiations with the other government parties did not reach much further. It's a completely different thing to sit in a government position with a majority government, where you can implement what you want to do. But in this case, one obviously does not want to implement it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e578	That confirms what I'm saying, there was something else that was more important. There was something else that was more important for the Progress Party than this, just as when we make the overall assessment, this is important, but something else is more important. It's the essence of politics, and it's a reality that's true of the Progress Party, and it's true of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e583	Several have not asked the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 469]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e593	Odelstinget is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e601	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 3, by Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 4 and 5, by Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the right, from the Christian Party, and from the left, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the Training Act so that those wishing to complete secondary education are entitled to such education regardless of age. ‘... Proposal No. 2, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a change to the Training Act so that students in need of linguistic development are guaranteed the same rights as students in need of sign language development or alternative and supplementary communication [[ASK]] Proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose, at the latest in the State budget for 2009, an increase in the allocation to the Parental Committee for Primary Schools, so that it will be sufficient to discharge the new responsibilities imposed. ‘... These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e839	There are two alternative proposals here. That is proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party, which reads: ‘In the Training Act, paragraphs 3 to 12 are replaced by the following: § 3 to 12 Specific language training in Norwegian for pupils from language minorities Elevar in further training with language language languages other than Norwegian or Sami is entitled to specific Norwegian training until they have sufficient skills in Norwegian to follow the usual training in the school. ‘... In addition, it is proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party, which reads: ‘The law of 4 July 2003 on private schools entitled to state aid makes the following changes: § 3-5 is replaced by the following: Specific language training in Norwegian for pupils from language minorities Elevar in native languages other than Norwegian or Sami is entitled to specific Norwegian training until they have sufficient skills in Norwegian to follow the usual training in school. ‘... In the first place, there is an alternative between the Committee's nomination for I New Sections 3 to 12 and proposal No. 4th from the Progress Party. An alternative is then to vote between the Committee's nomination for Section II (3) to (5) and proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party. It is then voted on the Committee's position on I New § 13-5 and II New § 7-1c. The paragraphs deal with the legalization of fruit and greenery at school. The party of progress, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced their opposition. Finally, the remainder of I, II and III is voted over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e893	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e903	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e913	B will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e921	During the debate, the representative Kenneth Svendsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decision to the Act amending Law No 28 February 1997 19 on popular protection In the Act of 28 February 1997 on popular security, the following changes are made: the second and third paragraphs of Section 19-4 are deleted. [[People's Security Act]] [[People's Security Act]] Paragraphs 19-6, second, third and fourth paragraphs are deleted. II The amendments under I shall enter into force with effect from 1 July 2008. ‘... This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23-lower.ana.ud2348e964	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
