ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e24	The President of the Slovak Parliament, Pavol Paška, is on an official visit to Norway with a broad delegation from his Parliament. They're in the gallery. It is a great pleasure for the President to wish Pavol Paška and his delegation welcome to the Grand Duchy and welcome to Norway. [[Applause from the Chamber]] The representative Line Henriette Holten Hemdal will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e29	On behalf of representatives Laila Davøy, Dagrun Eriksen, Hans Olav Syversen and myself, I am promoting a proposal for a representative on measures to reduce the consumption of plastic bags.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e34	The representative of Torbjørn Hansen will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e37	Today, I am delighted to be promoting two representative proposals. The first is the proposal from Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, Elisabeth Aspaker, Bent Höie and myself for growth in the marine industry. The second is the proposal from Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, Jan Tore Sanner, Svein Flötten, Gunnar Gundersen and myself to strengthen the tax FUNN scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e46	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting be extended, if necessary, beyond the regulatory time, at 1 p.m. 16 until today's map has been processed. - No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e64	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for speeches by the main speakers from each party group and members of the Government be set at 10 minutes, and for other speakers at 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e71	It is again in place to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a thorough and informative presentation. It provides a good basis for dialogue between the Government and the European Union on developments relevant to Norway and relevant EEA matters in the preparation and decision-making process. This was the main purpose of the treatment of the European Communication, of involving more people in a more open, coordinated and active impact on EU/EEA matters at an early stage in order to safeguard Norwegian interests, but also to provide opportunities for input into the joint development of the EU and Europe. We are challenged to find common solutions with others, for example: in the field of climate and environment. Norway has an interest in establishing a framework and arrangements with rights and obligations, and that we are part of what the Minister for Foreign Affairs calls a European Binding Agency. The follow-up to the ambition for a more active European policy requires something from both the Government, the Stortinget and the party groups. Since the last presentation, there have been changes here in the Stortingen related to the former EEA Committee, now the European Committee, and opportunities for greater involvement of the trade unions have been provided. At the same time, some party groups, including The Workers' Party, already in close contact with the respective party groups in the European Parliament, both at the level of representatives and advisers. I have noticed with interest that the Icelandic Everything wants more involvement in EEA matters and uses Stortinget as a model. The Labour Party has also wanted to join our members of the committees responsible for the relevant subject areas of the Minister for Foreign Affairs this time. I therefore refer to the views of representatives of other committees later in the debate on, inter alia, the subject. climate and environment, research, justice and the opportunities offered by Nordic cooperation. One prerequisite for dialogue is that we talk about the same thing. I would therefore like to comment on some of the other issues involved in the presentation. The Minister for Foreign Affairs gave an assessment of the institutional new arrangements in the Treaty of Lisbon and the importance they could have for Norway. I took note of the substantial strengthening of the European Parliament and believe it is very positive for the popularised influence in the EU system. At the same time, it underlines the need for closer contact with the party groups in the European Parliament. The Presidency here in Stortinget must also not park the proposal to try to get a person from Stortinget at official level attached to the European Parliament, but see the good experience of other Nordic countries with this. We must consider whether the wording of the Treaty with previous involvement of national parliaments in new legislation can be adapted to the position of Norway. The government must maintain a close relationship with the EU in the field of foreign and security policy, in a situation where the EU will coordinate its work more strongly. We have common interests in a wide range of, not most, areas. Faster decision-making by, inter alia: majority decisions and withdrawals of the bridge structure will require additional efforts to ensure the impact of relevant legislation from outside the EU. The same will apply to the implementation phase, where I record that Norway is now number 22 of 30 EEA countries. The enlargement of the EU has contributed to peace and stability and economic and social development in Europe. And more countries want membership. I think it is positive and would like to stress here, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the importance of involving the countries of the Western Balkans in European integration in order to ensure peaceful development in the region. The region is a whole, and no country has to stay on the platform. The Minister for Foreign Affairs also gave some assessments related to the EEA Financial Mechanisms and the forthcoming negotiations with the EU on future contributions from the EEA/EFTA countries after the current agreement expires next year. Although we have no legal obligation, I agree with the Government's basic position that Norway should continue to contribute to economic and social development in the new EU countries. It is also in our interest to ensure cohesion and stability in these countries, to link and cooperate and to participate in an enlarged EEA, which is something more than just trade. However, the EU should show its stomach in demands for an increase in new contributions, including: relative to their own corresponding contributions. I notice that it has taken a long time to establish and approve projects from the financial instruments, but there are many good examples to point out. The Labour Party would like to see the Government, as invited by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, briefing the Storting on the EEA financial instruments, projects and results. There are, of course, significant resources involved. The financial instrument for Romania and Bulgaria ensured a greater share of bilateral cooperation programmes, more direct Norwegian administration and a prerequisite for cooperation projects with Norwegian actors. It would be beneficial if parts of this could also be ensured in the new financial instruments from 2009. Of course, a project content should draw on the experience of the existing scheme, but I also believe that more focus on climate and environment, for example. renewable energy and the limitation of emissions from energy production may be relevant for these countries. As a last resort, I would urge the Minister for Foreign Affairs to include the social dimension as a goal and the social partners as a target group for the development of cooperation relations with all the new EU countries. Representative organisations and cooperation between labour market partners will contribute to the economic and social development of countries. Finally, I would like to touch on a theme that was not included in the presentation. We have a common labour market in the EEA, which is a good thing for workers and countries like Norway with a high need for labour. However, we must prevent workers from other countries from being exploited by lower pay levels and lower employment rates than the standard in the host country. The fight against social dumping can and must be conducted primarily nationally, and I am pleased with the offensive attitude of our own government in this area. However, the defence of workers' pay and working conditions must also be given to the European arena. We must support the social dialogue. We have good experience referring to Norway in terms of cooperation between authorities and social partners. It's an important part of the Nordic model. The European Court of Justice has taken some decisions, the last few weeks ago, relating to the use of strikes and boycotts from the trade union movement in order to ensure the national pay and working conditions of workers. This has caused some uncertainty about the consequences in many countries. Here, of course, there are national differences as to what is enshrined in law or contract work. So far, court decisions have not been considered to lead to changes in practice or law and contractual works here in Norway. I expect that this can be further clarified here in Stortinget in the processing of the Storing message on labour immigration. My point here is that at European level we must support the right to use collective means of fighting and that established rights negotiated by the social partners should apply. The task of the Court of Justice is to interpret existing laws and regulations. If decisions are to be negative in terms of pay and working conditions, we believe that politicians need to understand and clarify their intentions, at European and national level. But I do not believe that this is also a struggle between parties for political direction, both nationally and in the EU institutions. However, the Nordic model suggests that there is more common thinking here than in many other European countries, and it leads me to the final rate: I sometimes get the impression from the debate here in Norway that the EU is somewhat uniform, where decisions are made without discussion and influence. On the contrary, the EU is an arena of political struggle between parties and political choices, whether in the European Parliament or in governments. This results in decisions that are crucial to the development of Europe and Norway. Norway is not represented in this arena. Continuing this reasoning would lead me beyond Soria Moria.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e114	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e117	Our relationship with the EU through the EEA Agreement offers us many opportunities for cooperation in a number of fields, but it also gives us clear limits in other fields. The majority decided, following pressure from ESA, to phase out government-determined power contracts for industry in 1999 and 2000. Despite this, the government parties with the Workers' Party promised in the head without reservation to introduce a new industrial power regime as soon as they came into government. The government has not been able to follow up this promise and is now liable for the EEA Agreement. Is it now surprising in the Workers' Party that this is not possible to achieve, and was it completely overlooked in ESA's attitude to this over several years when, in the autumn of 2005, economic power was unreservedly promised to the industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e126	I thank Mr Vaksdal for his reply, although this is not within my and the foreign committee's field. I just want to say in general about the EEA Agreement and the EU, that we are, of course, implementing the policy in Norway that we believe is right in the first place. That we are also being tested in some contexts in relation to the EEA Agreement, I think it is natural, as there are also control mechanisms here to ensure a coherent framework for the different policy areas. With regard to details related to power contracts, I have to admit that I do not have enough knowledge to give the representative a good enough answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e131	The representative of Bjørnstad was concerned about our relationship with the EU in terms of labour market and security, and that is the Services Directive I would like to ask. Is the Workers' Party comfortable with the fact that the Government is unable to bring the Services Directive up to date despite the fact that there has been two years and more time than we would even expect in a matter where the interests of the government parties break?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e136	I thank the representative, Vallersnes, for the question. I would like to say, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has repeatedly replied to both the European Committee and here in Stortinget, that the directive is now under assessment in the Government, after a whole series of different investigations. I believe that the government must ensure that one has a good answer to all the questions that have emerged in the debate, because this is one of the issues that has aroused the greatest debate here in Norway. Before making the decision, the government must be sure that it has the answers to the questions asked and one can use, among other things. the investigations to reach them.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e141	The representative of Bjørnstad referred to a number of judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Communities which infringed the right to collective bargaining in favour of workers and trade unions. These judgments have been widely observed in the EU. European trade unions call the judgments an invitation to social dumping, and in Sweden several social democrats have gone out and said that desire is now full, and that social democrats must say no to the Treaty of Lisbon. In Norway, Geir Höin, a lawyer in the trade union, called the judgment ‘A strong estimate of the tariff agreement system confirms that where the tariff agreement system is at the forefront of market liberalisation in the EU, there has been a tendency for the Court to choose the path of market liberalisation’. [[...]] [[...]] The Executive Director of the Alliance for the Welfare State, Asbjørn Wahl, believes that these judgments ‘mean a tougher line from the EU system to the trade union movement’. This was not mentioned in the foreign minister's statement, but since Bjørnstad was involved, I would like to ask if he shares the union representatives' assessment of these judgments.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e155	As for the court decisions -- there are three of them here -- they're probably more nuanced than what it's made as. For it is fundamental here that there is the right to wage and working conditions and to take care of the health and environment of workers. With regard to the first court decisions, one has come to the conclusion that there is nothing to suggest that we should change the practice or the law and contract work in Norway. With regard to the last decision, I assume that there is something that an assessor is now in the Stortinget in connection with the Stortingen report on labour migration. I hope that also means that it is simply a decision of the court interpreting the existing legal and contractual works. I believe that if this is going in a negative direction, politicians must go both from the Norwegian side and from the European level to clarify the intentions to maintain the wage and working conditions of the workers in relation to the standard of the host country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e163	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e166	The Minister for Foreign Affairs once again gave a rich account, which contained both more practical, short-term issues and the more principal aspects. It is tempting to follow up the Minister for Foreign Affairs and become a little principled, as the statement states. First, I'm going to comment on some specific issues. I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that the EEA funding mechanism can be a good opportunity for Norway to take care of its own interests. It requires that the agreements concluded with the EU be taken into account. I am pleased that the government seems to be doing just this, and records an increasing number of Norwegian players who benefit from it. Nevertheless, the amount and not least how to use the money - not to talk about who should be included as recipients - must be the subject of careful discussions. Future contributions must be defended, and they must change in line with changes in the recipient countries. And we have to make sure that no recipients are left hanging out of old habit or unfamiliarity. With regard to the Data Storage Directive, the Progress Party, following a process country, has stated that this Directive conflicts with important data protection interests, and we have therefore asked the Storting to reject the Directive. The government's process of the Services Directive has proved to be an extremely long journey. We usually do a good job, and that's why we just get to believe that we're going to land on this case soon, and that we're going to land well. Those who are skeptical of the red-green ability to take controversial positions can be tempted to believe that the long process has something to do with the fact that there is disagreement between the parties. I don't think we should necessarily speculate in it, only record that for the Government it is useful in this matter with many professional input, and then note that in other matters there is no corresponding desire to investigate and obtain positions outside the government's own circle. The Progress Party will, in its own contributions, address key issues such as climate, energy and research. I will now only be very careful to say that I think it was a good priority on the part of the Minister for Foreign Affairs when he chose to emphasise our research cooperation as carefully as it was done. The problematisation of the Lisbon challenges by the speech is most exciting throughout the presentation. Here the Minister for Foreign Affairs opens up a further and exciting debate on how well today's EEA works towards an EU that is about to get the Treaty of Lisbon in place. The EEA Agreement was written early in the 1990s, started in 1994 and is today as it was when it was signed. Of course, a lot of legislation and new cooperation projects have emerged over the years, but the structure of cooperation is as it was originally. That's all right. The challenge is that this will also be the duration of the contract. There is no automatic way that when the EU changes, the EEA Agreement changes. Nor is there any political process to adapt the EEA structure to the new EU structure. The gap between the EEA Agreement and the new EU is clearly widening. It also points out the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It brings new challenges, which we have to try to deal with to the best of our ability. But it is a fundamental challenge that we live with an agreement that is written in many ways in view of an EU other than what we experience today. Now that doesn't mean that the EEA Agreement is hopeless - far from it. I believe that it has served Norwegian interests well, and that it will probably also do so in the future. It has proved to be perhaps surprisingly viable in the face of many political realities during the years it has existed, and even though the EU has implemented several Treaty changes. But at some point it can start squeaking, and in any case this kind of cooperation that we have with the EU will require adjustments. The Progress Party has previously called for, not least in the context of the major enlargement of the EU, a debate on addressing aspects of the EEA Agreement for new negotiations. But here we met a wall of scepticism, and we were told in serious order how risky such a project was, and that we could then risk violent demands from the European Union. I respect it and don't think we should have any illusions that such negotiations would have been easy. But sometimes it's not always easy, which is the wisest. Whether such an attempt to upgrade or make technical adjustments to the EEA Agreement, or even more extensive changes, is not safe, but it may be worth doing a regular exercise. For nothing indicates that the EU will stop expanding or changing, and then our challenges in promoting our interests will only increase. Now some parties might claim that the solution is in membership, and that's a good point of view. But it is a position that is incompatible with neither the will of the people nor the political realities. Therefore, we are all obliged to think outside the scope of the question of membership or not. Another argument against reopening the EEA Agreement is that the EU is not particularly interested and has other and major challenges. That's how I think it can always be made. The EU is not at rest. That's a little bit of the challenge. My impression is that Norway is nevertheless interesting, and that a Norwegian pressure on the EU will be taken with the greatest seriousness. I do not think Norway has become less interesting as a partner for the EU since 1994, rather on the contrary. Then we can think a little bit about what we can do with a renegotiation of the EEA Agreement. There's a lot of exciting things to think about, and from different political parties, there might be different things. On the part of the Progress Party, we will not be aliens to open up a link between agriculture and access to the market for fish, for example. These are areas not currently covered by the EEA Agreement. The financial mechanism can find its clarification and not which is still the subject of demanding negotiations today. As far as institutional cooperation is concerned, it is natural to see that we are doing something to get even more involved with the European Parliament. There are probably different models here, and I think it might be possible to get a lot, except that we act as members with voting rights. Because it's clear that no matter what we can make of agreements, we'll never achieve voting rights. That's a consequence of our no to membership. But as long as we're realistic about that, I think a lot can be achieved. However, it demands political will and vision, and we do not go into such a project with the EU with a half-hearted desire to succeed. Therefore, a thorough debate at home on the need for a renegotiation of the EEA Agreement is important. I believe that the Minister for Foreign Affairs contributed to the debate on Tuesday. That was commendable. I promise that the Progress Party will seize this opportunity and help us to be able to shed light on all aspects of our European challenge. Finally, I would just like to remind you of the debate that is taking place in Iceland, where there was an overwhelming majority of EU membership at last polling. It's probably not likely, but it's not unthinkable, that Iceland is moving to the other team. Should this happen, we will immediately be faced with a new Europe debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e194	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e197	I am pleased that Morten Höglund here is calling for a new European debate, and those who need it the most are probably the Progress Party, which is the only party that per. today has no position in this matter. It is true that the EU has been too controversial for the Progress Party to take a stand on this. But what I've registered is that there are different views within the Progress Party, and I've also registered that those who have been most sceptical have been because of the free movement of people, and because one has been afraid that it might have negative influence on Norway. We now feel that we have several hundred thousand EU citizens in Norway who carry out important jobs in the construction industry, in the service industry and in the health sector. My question is whether Höglund shares his skepticism with the parties, or whether it is such that these people actually contributed positively to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e202	I would like to say to the representative, Mr Aksens, that this is going on and that a lively Europe debate has been taking place in the Progress Party for many years. It's one thing we take the most seriously and spend a lot of resources on. It is true that there are different views on the EU in the Progress Party, from those who are enthusiastic followers to those who stand steeply on the no-side. Even I belong to the more skeptical. The kind of argument that the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs draws up on labour immigration has never been my justification for being skeptical, nor have I experienced that kind of position in particular in the Advancement Party. I think we are well served with the free labour migration we have within the EEA Agreement, and in my view it has served Norwegian interests in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e207	The party for progress has a position on EU cases in which a direct statement is that this is a matter too important for the party to have a clear position on or against. It is self-evident, but in relation to the EEA there is a positive attitude. Now, of course, the EU is proposing a rather offensive climate policy - at least a policy that is entirely in conflict with the policy that the Progress Party wants to be pursued in relation to climate issues - and one that is also taking the climate seriously in a completely different way from what the Progress Party is willing to do. How will the Progress Party respond to the current future EEA-relevant directives dealing with climate and greenhouse gas reduction issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e212	There is a common perception in the Norwegian political landscape that the EU issue is so important that it should ultimately be left to the people in a referendum. It's not something we're alone in talking about. The fact that the Central Party is now defending the EU's climate policy seems to me to be a good thing. What we have been concerned about in these matters is that our business life should have equivalent conditions to those of EU businesses, and that we should therefore not give higher framework conditions in Norway than what we have in the EU. So we've been busy adapting in many ways here. At the same time, I note that within the EU now, not least with the Gordon Brown initiative in relation to a debate on biofuels, there is a debate on individual measures within the European Union, and there is a debate that is going on all the time, as it is happening in Norway. We are trying to participate as much as we can in the Norwegian debate, and to the extent that we can influence the European debate, we should also try to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e219	I almost perceive Höglund as one of the most important political issues in Europe. The Progress Party is the second largest party in Norway. Does Høglund think that it is right that a party in one of the most important political, international issues does not have any advice to give to the people, or does he have an opinion on how to deal with Europe? It might be interesting to hear a little bit about what things there is Høglund's emphasis on in his scepticism.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e224	There is no doubt that for Norway, Europe and the EU are thus very important. It has to do with trade, with where people and workers move, etc. My scepticism goes on concrete issues, not least in relation to fisheries, bureaucracy, the ability to deal with future challenges, Norway's position globally, etc. I believe that, not least in relation to trade, we are bound up in a policy that I believe is far too protective in an EU context. It's some of my skepticism. With regard to the lack of willingness of the Progress Party to give advice, this does not mean that we do not have views on the different situations within the EU, on Norwegian relations with the EU, and we are trying to be as active as we can in the individual fields of action. Then we think the voters and the citizens are able to draw conclusions based on these different relationships, which is best for them in any vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e231	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e234	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for an interesting and thoughtful presentation on important EU and EEA issues. He explained the impact of developments in the EU on Norwegian policy. His message was clear: on the one hand, the EU is of great importance to Norway, to the north and Svalbard, to research and knowledge development, to climate and energy policy, to foreign policy. On the other hand, a number of factors contribute to making it more difficult for us to influence and achieve a more coherent EU. In other words, the message was that the EU is becoming increasingly important to us, while our ability to influence the EU is becoming increasingly complicated. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is a politician who deserves to be listened to, even when he talks between the lines. The message we saw was this: It is becoming more difficult to find methods that can compensate for the fact that we are not involved in political cooperation in the European Union. The Minister for Foreign Affairs did not entirely say anything about how we should deal with the new challenges such as: EU enlargement and internal democratisation mean. It is difficult to interpret in any other way than now illustrating that the ‘active European policy’ has met its constraint and that we will stand by seeking others and perhaps broader forms of cooperation. The right has always considered that the EEA Agreement is insufficient because it does not grant us the right to co-determination. When it was introduced, EU cooperation was largely concerned with what is covered by the EEA Agreement. Now more and more of the EU’s policy design falls wholly or partly on the side of the EEA Agreement. The Treaty of Lisbon requires the EU to look at the policy areas in a coherent manner and therefore leads to the disappearance of the pillar structure in the EU. As a result, Norway has to deal with legal acts and initiatives that are only partially covered by our agreements. The EEA Agreement includes: becoming less relevant. This should lead to more than one right asking whether the EEA Agreement is good enough. No to the EU has called for an investigation into the EEA Agreement to serve us well, which also took up the evening position yesterday, on 23 April. No to the EU wants an investigation with the assumption that membership is not relevant. For the Right, there is little reason to take time to discuss Norwegian Switzerland agreements and bilateral trade agreements. On the other hand, we can see the need to have a more systematic and objective review of the impact of the EEA Agreement on our ability to promote our interests and how best to safeguard our interests in the future. The right has also called for a statement of what it will mean to use the right of reservation in the EEA Agreement and how the dispute resolution mechanisms will work. In view of the fact that several EU directives are now aimed at objectives beyond the internal market, it is appropriate to clarify what it would mean for Norway to react. The right will therefore ask the government to evaluate such an investigation, which will clarify what booking options we actually have. It is important to analyse what it means for the EEA Agreement that EU policies are wider and deeper. But the Foreign Minister’s message was also that the EU’s political breadth is important to our interests: the EU’s efforts are crucial for peaceful development in the Western Balkans; the EU is the leader in international efforts to reduce climate change emissions and to increase energy security; and the EU plays a major role in what is happening in our own neighbourhoods, in the north. The Minister highlighted the EU Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development and presented the Government's work on putting polar research, Svalbard and marine research on the map of the Seventh Framework Programme. This is a policy Right-wing support strongly. It is high time that Norway brought our North Sea competence and our climate and energy competence into a wider context - and above all the European one. However, the Minister for Foreign Affairs did not involve cooperation with Russia. We are concerned with pragmatic and constructive cooperation with Russia in the north, but are constantly totally dependent on the Russians being as pragmatic and cooperative as we are. They are, of course, often, but we have no guarantees as to how development will affect Russian willingness to cooperate. The question will then be what impact a stronger EU exposure in the north could have on cooperation with Russia. The right is less satisfied with the fact that we have now been slowing down in the implementation of EEA directives. So we're in the 22nd place of the result list for the quick implementation of market directives. The suspicion is that the disagreement about the EU in the Government contributes to this. The government has soon spent two years evaluating the Services Directive. The right call to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is to recall the Soria Moria declaration. The influence of Norway also depends on the follow-up of the agreements we have, and more than that: for a ‘foreign’ it is particularly important to show the will and ability to implement the regulations. Right missing that the statement also deals with several things that are on the steps of the Commission, which can come to our table in the near future. Such an example is the Directive on trade in health services. As far as we can see, the Commission's proposal for such a directive could be presented in June this year. It could be interesting for Stortinget to know what the Norwegian authorities have stressed in their contacts with the EU about such a matter as this. As we stressed in the discussion of the European Communication, the Government must consult the Stortinge at an early stage in order for us to have the hope of influencing the decisions. The importance of the EU is far wider than being a well-functioning single market, and some of us would say: that is good! The role of the EU internationally and globally is clearly underestimated in Norwegian public debate. Right will highlight the EU's leadership in international climate work, the EU as a focal point for democratic values and the EU's role in the fight against poverty. The EU is probably the world’s largest recipient of exports from Africa and also the world’s largest aid provider. That Norway, where 75 pst. of gross domestic product resulting from trade, must have a dynamic and well-functioning agreement with that common market, is evident. So the question is, is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is I was on my way home from the IPU Spring Conference when the Foreign Minister made his statement on Tuesday. When I got the manuscript in her on Tuesday night, I read the eye wide and wet, not only because the presentation was long and rich - and interesting - but also because I was left with the impression that the foreign minister was not able to draw the natural conclusion of his post, and that he feels that our country will increasingly have to struggle something more to avoid playing out its possibilities. We in the Right do not want a new debate on EU membership until the mood of the people warrants another outcome of a possible third referendum. For my part, I don't think it will happen until there are either security reasons to anchor us even safer in our natural European family, or that most people feel that it costs them something or that they miss something essential by not being a member. I guess the last one should be done in one of the richest countries in the world. The vast majority of people are so good that a person can easily be led to believe that our Norwegian Yggdrasil is growing equally into the sky. However, when such a reader reads the foreign minister’s statement, one can regain the belief that there may now be so convincing evidence as to show what the ‘outreach’ costs us in terms of lost opportunities and lack of participation and influence that it should soon make a strong impression on many enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e271	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e274	Both the current and the previous governments have been and are composed of political parties that have different views on the form of association with the EU. During this period, as an opposition party, the right has flagged the need for membership high. Vallersnes also goes very far in saying today that the EEA Agreement and our other form of association with the EU are inadequate, although he rejects some of the membership debates today. The question is: Will the Right make it a prerequisite for participation in a new possible civil government - in so far as it comes - that EU membership should be included in the Government Declaration, or will the Right accept to engage in government cooperation with parties that are either clear-no parties or have not taken a stand, such as the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e281	Like the Workers' Party, we have well shown in the Right that we are able to work in joint governments where there is a different viewpoint in this matter. For the forthcoming period of government, which hopefully brings this matter to the right again on the agenda, there is no doubt that what will be crucial for us is that a Norwegian government is always striving to find the form of cooperation with the EU that best interests Norwegian at all times. The fact that our overall goal in the long term is to get full membership is clear in our programme - it still says - and no one has been in any doubt about it. But we believe that both in the past and in the future we will be a party that is able to chisel out the best possible solution that is practicable at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e288	The representative of Vallersnes made clear his view on EU membership. In this regard, I would like to ask him a question. Norway’s ‘outside situation’ has enabled us, with a clear and own voice, to clarify our relationship with Russia, which I see as very good. So we can say the same thing about the situation in Palestine. There was Norway in the front, and we also presented our own position on the Palestine problem. Would it have been possible to be so clear and clear in their speech if we had been members? How does Right assess it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e293	If you look at how the EU works today, it is not difficult to see that a number of Member States have quite clear, independent views on several international issues, including: The relationship with Russia - it's Germany or France or the UK - that makes them have, let's say, national positions. At the same time, however, there is work on designing common European EU positions, and I am not in doubt that one will also have greater impact insofar as they are gradually able to establish a procedure to outsource such common European positions. This is where the balance has to lie, in the value of self-marking relative to the value of being part of a common position that gives much greater power and strength. I think that the current members of the European Union have shown that they are able to balance it, and I have no doubt that Norway would also earn.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e300	While the right view of the EU debate is well known, there is room for some confusion in relation to two different perspectives drawn up by the representative of Vallersnes: on the one hand, a perception that the EEA Agreement was weakened; and on the other hand, there is no reason to expect that there will be any opening for Norway to apply for EU membership with the first. And then I noticed that the representative called for an analysis of the functioning of the EEA Agreement and the alternatives to the EEA Agreement. My question is, in the light of the two points I mentioned instead, whether there is an inquiry Right wants to order with only two possible answers - EEA or membership - or whether the representative Vallersnes considers other possible conclusions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e305	Let me correct something. I did not say that the EEA Agreement is weakened. We have always thought that it was not the best solution for Norway. But what we are concerned about now, and which I think is quite clear from the Foreign Minister's statement, is not that the agreement is weakened, but that it is inappropriate. So, the world is changing. The EU is changing. New things come to the table both in a factual and structural way in the EU, which means that a previously developed product does not entirely correspond to the current situation. What we are talking about then is that we would like to be involved in an analysis of how the country's interests could best be cared for, in the light of the challenges that now exist. It should be objective without being preconceived in any way of any final solution, and I think that's the whole point.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e310	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e313	Let me first thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a full and good presentation, which focuses on a number of key issues that should shape the debate on Norway's policy vis-à-vis the EU in the coming period. Since the government change in 2005, Norway has had a more active European policy, which has provided an impact on Norwegian interests in a number of important cases. Furthermore, we have seen a government more actively using the freedom of foreign policy granted by Norway’s position outside the EU, for example. in WTO negotiations, in climate negotiations and in Middle East policy. I see that some media have focused on the fact that the Minister for Foreign Affairs stresses the challenges Norway will face in terms of working for an impact on Norwegian interests where they are affected by the EU system. But I noticed that the Foreign Minister also stressed that the consequences of the Treaty of Lisbon could be that it would be more difficult for Norway to win through if we were not able to adapt. The government has already shown the ability to get through, and the debate must be about how to continue such positive developments. The statement shows, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs himself says, that Norway is strongly involved in the EU at many levels. SV believes that the people's no to the EU in 1994 was a right decision. It is the outcome of the referendum that will be the basis for the European debate we are going to have in the years to come, a debate that is not about membership, but about how Norway should best use the opportunities provided by our independent position. In many areas, close cooperation between Norway and the EU is both sensible and appropriate, both because Norway is geographically located where we are and because the EU and EU countries are Norway's largest trading partners. As a seller of e.g. Fish, oil and gas have an interest in a good relationship with the EU, and I share the Foreign Minister’s emphasis on research cooperation as important and appropriate in the coming period. Environment and climate policy is another area in which I hope that cooperation will produce more results. One thing we are concerned about is a clarification of the EU’s and ESA’s position on Norwegian CO2 treatment. It is important that we do not get to the point where Norwegian environmental priority is delayed due to the EU's focus on competition and State aid legislation. The strict economic regulation of the EU's internal market means that, too often, consideration for competition is given to considerations that should have taken place first, such as: on environmental issues. I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs places such emphasis on the Nordic perspective. SV is, as you know, a hot follower of Nordic cooperation, not least in the North Region context. It is therefore also interesting in a debate such as this one to point to an important feature of the EU debate in our neighbouring countries right now, namely the unrest caused by the judgments of the European Court of Justice, to which the representative of Bjørnstad also referred. This concerns the Vaxholm/Laval case, the Viking Line case and now the Rüffert/Niedersachsen case, which challenges both national and national labour law and the ILO Convention 94, according to critics in Sweden and other countries. After all, the last ILO Convention has also acceded to Norway, because it is considered to be very important in order for the public to be able to oblige suppliers to have orderly and good pay and employment conditions. It is often claimed in Norway that national labour law is exempt and superior to EU law. So these judgments point in a different direction, and it's important to notice for us too. I am pleased that the Minister of Foreign Affairs spent time discussing the Data Storage Directive in his presentation, and that the Government here will go into a thorough process to assess the important fundamental issues of privacy raised by the Directive. It implies, as you know, that telecommunications operators, e-mail providers and other companies in the communications sector are required to store data on who communicates with whom, where they are located and when they are in contact. Companies shall store this information for up to two years. There have been strong and, in my view, relevant objections to such a registration from a number of teams, among others. from the Norwegian Data Protection Supervisor and equivalent institutions in other European countries. It is both about the principle of recording information about the whole population in this way and about the dangers of misuse of the information. As is known, examples of data registers are still emerging. An important consideration that should be highlighted in the assessment of the Directive is possible consequences such as: for the source protection of journalists and politicians and the protection of alerts in general, if it is easier to trace such sources. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs points out, the Government has not yet taken a decision as to whether the Directive should be considered as EEA-relevant. I am pleased that the Government will go thoroughly into that issue. It is also worth pointing out that Ireland will bring a case before the European Court of Justice in order to clarify precisely the relevance of the Directive to the internal market. An area where the Government has used the freedom of action outside the EU in an affordable way is in WTO service negotiations. Norway has taken the view that poor countries must have the opportunity to protect the construction of their own economies and businesses. In SV, we are still concerned that the EU is exerting pressure against several developing countries in the opposite direction through the Free Trade Agreements called EPA – Economic Partnership Agreements. Two critical reports on the EU's attempts to establish free trade agreements with what are known as the CAP countries, i.e. Caribbean and African countries and Pacific countries, were published recently. These are reports from organisations World Development Movement and the help organisation Oxfam, which warn against what they call unilateral agreements on the part of the EU that will require these countries to open up the markets to companies with which they are unable to compete, thus preventing their ability to achieve the UN's Millennium Goals on Combating Poverty. As we know, in SV we have always had objections to the EEA Agreement. However, a rich country such as Norway is in a position to compete with the EU and benefit from it in several areas. The poorest countries do not have such a premise and will lose to compete with the EU on a level playing field. During the last round of negotiations on the so-called EEA quota, which is not really a quota, Norwegian traders placed great emphasis on the bilateral treatment of a large part of EEA funds, directly between the beneficiary countries and Norway. The result was that approx. half of the funds were to be managed in this way. That is good, because it supports the opportunities for a broad Norwegian involvement in the health, social, educational, cultural and environmental front, where not least Norwegian organisations and institutions can have opportunities to contribute to positive international cooperation. In addition, it does not give a negligible advantage that Norwegian authorities can have much greater influence and sufficient control over how the money is used, and make sure that they are used sensibly. It is positive that Norway can contribute to the development of the poorest EU countries. Here, too, we note, and see it as very positive, that the Foreign Minister points to environmental and climate action as a possible field of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e344	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e347	With the entry of the Party SV into the government offices, the concept of ‘foreign policy debate’ has been given a new dimension in Norway. The Minister of Foreign Affairs himself has, on several occasions, also in the Grand Chamber, stressed the importance of the free debate on important, and also sensitive, foreign policy issues. One of the issues in which it appears to be a kind of refusal of debate in the Government and in government parties is the issue of the EU Services Directive. It was not mentioned in a word on the part of the representative Lightbakken, despite the fact that there is a case that takes the highest degree of the No-motion, which SV considers to be part of. An overall opposition asked the government last winter to make a statement here in the Stortinget on the consequences of the Services Directive for Norway. It was rejected on the grounds that a hearing was ongoing. That hearing ended in February last year, but this statement has not yet come to the Grand Duchy. Is this an example of a free and open debate, or is it a debate-repudiation that really applies?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e357	I think the government parties are difficult to accuse of putting a lid on the debate on the Services Directive. There is a debate that has not least taken place in the Norwegian community because the Government has chosen to have a thorough process related to this and to gather views from different professional communities, different organisations, etc. For us in SV, it is essential that the Government takes a decision on this on the best possible basis, where most of the issues addressed by the Services Directive have been addressed. Just because EU cooperation is in continuous development, and we see an increasing legal process, where the Court of Justice has increasing influence on important issues, we find there are many reasons to take time to explain the impact of the Services Directive. We have warned that we are concerned about working life, social dumping, consumer rights, etc. And we're happy that the government spends time elucidating this thoroughly.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e364	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e367	Let me first thank the Foreign Minister for a very good and broad presentation on these issues. Not least, I am pleased that he has taken up the growing tendency for ad hoc alliances to be formed within the EU to work for breakthroughs in different areas. I want to focus part of my article on what opportunities it can give Norway. In my own part of the Nordic Council, I have taken up the possibility that, in this context, some areas of concern are emerging in which the Nordic countries together, both EU and EFTA countries, can work together to promote certain points of view. The Minister for Foreign Affairs shows that he thinks along the same lines when he highlights current areas as for example: climate and environment, conflict resolution, human rights, social issues and food security. In my view, there is a new situation in the EU, obviously after enlargement, the Treaty of Lisbon and the development of the regional dimension in the EU, but also in Nordic cooperation. In my view, Nordic cooperation between EU Member States and those who are not has become a better balance. EU members have in many ways become more mature in their EU membership, and the opportunities to coordinate views in the Nordic context to influence Europe appear to be better than ever. This is why I think Norway should be arrested. We have opportunities through the Nordic Council of Ministers and through the Parliamentary Assembly of the Nordic Council of Ministers to flash out in a reasonably long time areas that we want to address, initiate, or processes that are underway in the EU, but which we can join in influencing. Personally, I have the experience that the possibility to coordinate Nordic positions and to influence the EU, for example. The way we did it in terms of alcohol policy is there if you want something, and if you work with it in a targeted way and are patient over a period of time. I would therefore like to challenge the Minister of Foreign Affairs whether he would like to put this kind of active influence into a Nordic framework, on the agenda of the Nordic Council of Ministers, in his College of Foreign Ministers, so that this could be put into a system. I have registered, when it has been raised on the parliamentary side, that there has been considerable interest in this. Secondly, I would like to say that it is positive that the Minister for Foreign Affairs drew up more examples of how it has been implemented in certain areas, where Norway has also worked intensively to influence the outcome of EU bodies, including the Court of Justice. For example, the judgment of the European Court of Justice on brominated flame retardants in electrical products can be mentioned. The presentation also highlighted some aspects of EU climate policy, but the picture is probably more complex. The Minister of Foreign Affairs referred to the EU's new Chemicals Directive, REACH, where Norway took an active part in achieving the highest level of protection possible. It might also have been mentioned that Norway did not get through to the extent we wanted. Norway tends to have higher ambitions than the EU can adopt. It's important that we have those possibilities. As an EEA member, we are not bound in as many areas as Member States of the Union. We have national decision-making powers over several areas. However, it will be important to make more effective use of the potential impact we have through the EEA and the cooperation mechanisms in which we participate, because it has been pointed out over many years that the impact possibilities that actually exist have not been fully exploited. As the representative, Mr Bjørnstad, I am concerned that we, as parliamentarians, also use the opportunities we have, and that the interests of the nation can also be safeguarded by parliamentarians in the interaction with parliamentarians in the European Union. I am therefore impatient to begin with the reforms that Stortinget has agreed on in relation to Storting's own work on these issues. Something's going on, something we're still waiting to get started. Of course, there is reason to focus on the challenges that change in the EU creates, and we must constantly relate to an organisation that is changing. However, it is also important to identify and use more actively the channels we have through the EEA and other cooperation mechanisms and contact areas in our relationship with the EU. Part of this debate has been said so far that the changes that are taking place in the EU allow us to re-analyse our form of association. I do not belong to those who believe that this is the actual basis for doing so. I would remind you that it has not been very long since the current government submitted its European Communication, which, like the previous government's European Communication, stated that the EEA Agreement has served Norway well. There are actually six out of seven parties on the Stortinget that have signed that evaluation. What the representative, Mr Höglund, said, I believe that the seventh party too will be able to sign such an evaluation. This does not mean that we should not have an open debate and dialogue on how to develop our cooperation relations. That is what the Christian People's Party wants. But we're not involved in putting the whole EEA agreement at risk through a broad and open evaluation, as Right invites. We know what the real goal of the Right is. It was also said quite clearly by the representative of Vallersnes in the debate. I fully agree when the Minister of Foreign Affairs is raising research and development as a very comprehensive and important field in our cooperation with the European Union. It has so far not received the attention it deserves, and it is a strategically important field for any forward-looking policy. Clean energy and aquaculture are important research areas for us. Let me also mention, as the Evening Post recently wrote, that Norway participates in every third climate research project in the Seventh Framework Programme of the EU. Norwegian research communities that have applied for support have a success rate of 12 pst. above the EU average. There is reason to give significant recognition to Norwegian research communities. Climate research is an area in which Norway can present itself as a central contributor. Promoting Svalbard as a research platform is important in such a context. In my view, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has a somewhat uncritical approach when he talks about the EU's environmental work. It is true, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs points out, that the EU has a leading role in international environmental and climate relations, compared to international actors such as the United States, China and Russia. But that does not mean that everything the EU does about the environment is as pink as one might get the impression by hearing the presentation. It's e.g. no reference to the fact that heavy EU countries such as Italy, Germany and the United Kingdom are now expanding the production of coal power. European countries are expected to expand no less than 50 coal-fired power plants over the next five years, which will be operational for the next 50 years. In Italy, the share of energy from coal power shall more than double in five years, from 14 pst. to 33 pst. of the country's total energy supply. Is the climate policy leading to the follow-up of countries like China and India we see here examples of? I don't think so. At least European environmentalists are deeply concerned that coal is now making a comeback in the EU. The EU's underwater environmental policy is also not unequivocally positive. The Environment Organisation World Wildlife Fund was out yesterday and said that overfishing was one of the greatest threats to food security in the world. Here the EU has a lot to answer for. The EU has not only fished almost empty in its own waters, they also conclude fisheries agreements with poor countries and continue their overfishing there. In particular, the EU has many fisheries agreements with countries in West Africa, which are an area most affected by the food crisis. In conclusion, I would like to return to the question of social dumping and the judgments that the representative Bjørnstad, the representative Lysbakken and I have been involved in. These judgments have, as I said, been of great concern to the European Union because, in the opinion of many, they are infringing tariff law, disfavor of workers and trade union movements. A government that claims to be concerned with professional rights and social dumping - and which has shown that it is in many areas - could perhaps have expected this to be included in the statement on important EU and EEA issues. However, I would like to give the Minister of Foreign Affairs a chance to give his assessment of the importance of these judgments in relation to the rights of tariffs and workers and trade unions, as this is well established in the Norwegian system - and in large parts of the EU area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e399	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e402	Dagfinn Højbräten has extensive experience with the EEA Agreement and also has a good deal of experience with the European Committee, where most of the new EU directives are incorporated. The Christian People's Party programme states that a major social concern that concludes with the EEA Agreement is democracy. I would like to ask the representative, Mr Højbrätten: with the experience he has from the Committee on Europe, is it the democratic aspect that distinguishes the EEA agreement? Does the representative, Højbräten, believe that citizens of countries that are members of the EU experience less of democracy and respect for democracy worse than they do in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e409	It's a big question the representative Bjørnstad now asks - and I think he knows that. But let me try to answer with some big lines. These are aspects of the construction and practices of the European Union that clearly run counter to important democratic considerations, such as popular participation, popular control and popular control. Having said that, I see clearly some positive features of the Lisbon Agreement in this way, but I am asking myself whether part of the reforms that are being introduced will in practice help, in particular, to allow greater public participation in EU processes. It remains to be seen. With regard to the EEA Agreement, much of the principles of self-determination lies in what we exclude from the EEA Agreement. With regard to our ability to influence decisions in the EU, they are probably not in the European Committee of the Biggest, but in the kind of previous processes for which the government is responsible, and for which I believe that the Stortinget and the parliamentarians should take greater responsibility, for example. through Nordic cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e420	I note that in many fields the Central Party and the Christian People's Party have common positions on the EU and the EEA Agreement. I still allow myself to ask a question. Let's try to look into the glass sphere. Does the representative Dagfinn see some shadows there that could threaten the platform we stand on today, and with which most people feel reasonably satisfied?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e427	Let me confirm that the Central Party and the Christian People's Party are probably closer today to each other in the EU case than for a long time, precisely because the Central Party is part of a government based on the EEA Agreement. I'm glad. At the same time, I believe that both the Central Party, the Christian People's Party and everyone else who is committed to taking care of Norway's interests in Europe - and in the rest of the world - must constantly be looking for ways to improve our ability to influence and our ability to pursue an independent policy, but at the same time be involved in and influence the EU. To the extent that we are stagnating in our approach to these issues - not open to enlargements and improvements - I think our relations with the European Union will quickly become confused. And that could be a threat to that representative, Samuelsen, and I fully agree that we should retain the freedom to stand outside the Union.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e434	When Dagfinn Højbrätten gives the EU's environmental policy less because Italy is investing in coal-fired power stations, he is likely to be harmed by combining what is the responsibility of each country, and what has been agreed on jointly, that each country should decide its own energy carrier. But that's it. The high level of memory of the initiatives he has taken in the past, to use the EU to create a smoke-free indoor environment throughout Europe - not just in Norway - and to ensure that alcohol taxes are not too low, with the adverse effects it may have. This means that he sees the EU as a very suitable tool for good policy-making. And then the question is, what are we doing with them, what is the Hojbråten answer? Will not the answer be to take the political initiative to change the legal basis, so that the next case is judged differently?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e443	Let me first say that I mentioned both Germany and the United Kingdom in addition to Italy - a large and heavy part of the EU that represents the overall picture of the environmental policy pursued in this area. I think that is relevant when talking about the environment in the European context. On the issue of how to spread good policy, I note that Norway’s smoking law has spread like a farsot across Europe. We haven't really lifted as much as a finger-- other than setting a good example. And I think Norway can do that in several ways. In fact, in southern Europe, Norway and the Nordic countries are now looking at alcohol policy - not to copy it, but to do more of what we do, because we're doing most of what actually works, to deal with an increasing drug problem. I firmly believe that where developments in the European Union call for a change of course, Norway should work for it through the opportunities we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e452	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e456	I would also like to start by thanking the Foreign Minister for his statement on Tuesday. It is important that the Storting has these half-yearly presentations, both to be alerted to some of the challenges facing us by the EU and the EEA, and to keep the EU, Europe and EEA debates alive in the Norwegian political environment. I have noticed the last poll, published in the Official Journal of Bergen this week. It is a deep scepticism in the Norwegian people of an EU membership. Only 35 pst. of the Norwegian people who wanted to vote in favour of EU membership today, 53 p.m. would have voted no. At the same time, the majority of these measures state that they support the EEA Agreement. Given how the European Union and the EEA influence people's, not least women's, everyday lives, the political space of the municipalities and the state's, the Centre Party would like to welcome a debate on the EEA Agreement. We think it is time to carry out an assessment of what the EEA Agreement has meant for Norwegian policy. Furthermore, it is important to have an analysis of what the Treaty of Lisbon - if adopted - will mean for Norway. I agree that there is a need for an official Norwegian translation of the Treaty, which, as far as I know, both the No to the EU and the European Movement want. Furthermore, it is extremely relevant, not least for me and the Central Party, to have a discussion about the role of, and resource use in, ESA. ESA has been a driver for extending the EEA Agreement far beyond what was Norwegian understanding in 1992. The number of complaints has been relatively stable, around 50, while the proportion of cases opened by ESA on its own initiative has increased dramatically, from 90 in 1996 to 138 in 2006. One such example is the Three Programme under Innovation Norway, which aimed to increase the value creation in different parts of the value chain from forest to market. In addition, we pay ESA itself for this business. The budget of ESA is coming out. Norway pays about 89 pst. of the budget. My interpretation of the people's European Creator is not that we will not cooperate or know of our neighbours. Nor are we going to contribute to development and cohesion in Europe or in the rest of the world. On the contrary, there is great support in the Norwegian people to strengthen the poor country's own ability to combat poverty and to ensure better cohesion in Europe and the rest of the world. Of course, this is also the case in the Center Party. I believe that the EU's Creator is about directives and decisions directly affecting people's everyday lives - as the Food Mining Directive, that we should not quota women into higher academic positions or provide special support to women entrepreneurs, or that municipalities that want to support sports by giving them a cheap empty space to the stadium of the local football club should not be overrun on grounds of competition and market rhetoric. The Norwegian people are self-righteous. These simple examples challenge people's understanding of self-determination and democracy, and that is a healthy reaction. Nevertheless, in this situation, the Central Party is pleased - and I would urge myself to say proudly - that this government has had the courage to pursue an active EU policy. Since the last European debate, we have guaranteed the right of repatriation for the Norwegian people and for Norwegian municipalities. We have ensured that we can ban some of the worst pollutants - brominated flame retardants. We have even gone ahead, so that Denmark and the European Parliament have been able to implement the same legislation in the European Court of Justice. I will not talk much about issues such as differentiated employer fees and that Norway won the case in the WTO against the EU criminal duty on Norwegian farmed salmon. Norway’s financial instruments vis-à-vis the EU expire in 2009. The government is of the opinion that that was the agreement with the EU. In the opinion of the Centre Party, it is unclear whether Norway has a legal obligation to further finance. We have given large amounts to the poorest countries of the EU, and, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs points out, to many exciting and good projects. But we have also received signals that many of these funds have been managed in a very bureaucratic way by the Commission. Therefore, we are satisfied with the profile Norway had when negotiating aid for Romania and Bulgaria. The bulk of the aid was then added to bilateral cooperation aimed at strengthening business cooperation, environmental projects and other objectives that could be guided by the needs of the beneficiaries, and not least active cooperation between Norway and the new Member States. At the same time, Norway had such a good deal of market access for Norwegian seafood that the industry subsequently thanked for good work. If Norway continues to contribute to support for the poorest countries of the EU, it is such a profile that we need to continue. But these are questions about negotiations. It is also a question of who and what best needs such financial support in today's situation, including. food prices and energy prices are more severe than ever in developing countries. The Treaty of Lisbon, the new constitution of the EU, facilitates a more supranational EU in which the EU bodies are given competence in new areas and the Member States lose their right to veto in a number of cases. So the EU is taking a big leap towards what can be called a central state. The main impact for Norway is that the difference between a Norway outside the EU and an EU Member State is even greater. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has such a right that, in the case of voting rights, Norway can never go higher than no. Twenty-eight in a row. Nevertheless, I would argue that with all the advantages Norway has today, it is not the right to vote, but the possibility of negotiations as a non-member country that allow Norway to stand in a special position. Norway’s rich energy resources are central to an EU with energy security as one of its most central issues. Norway is the only supplier that the EU considers stable, inter alia. IIEA, Institute of International and European Affairs, Dublin. Norway has rich fishing and marine resources. Despite the unfair anti-dumping duty on Norwegian farmed fish, we export record quantities to the EU every year and there are key actors in the EU who want the Commission to lift the penalty duty. Norway has a border with the Barents Sea. The North is such a heavy and strategic area that I will predict that this could be a region of cooperation as important as the European Union will be. In order to use the Foreign Minister’s terminology: Norway will have over time two close projects on globalisation. We notice that the EU sees the strategic nature of this proximity, and of course we should make use of it in negotiations and in cooperation with our neighbouring countries, including the EU. Back to the Treaty of Lisbon. Disappearance of the pillar structure allows the EU to see policies more in context, but it also allows some of the clear lines between what is EEA-relevant and not to disappear quickly in the awareness of the European Commission. This requires an even more active EU policy on the part of the Government in order to preserve the political space of action that we, after all, negotiated during the EEA negotiations. It also suggests that we sort out to a greater extent those parts of EU legislation that we do not consider to be relevant to the EEA or Schengen. It will be an argument for tailoring rather than depreciating, adapting to the Norwegian economy, environment and social conditions. From past experience, this speaks for a future centre-left government. Furthermore, the new voting rules weaken the influence of small countries and the possibility by veto to postpone decisions. As I understand it, Germany will double its vote in the Council of the European Union, France's share is increasing by more than 50 pst, while Denmark and Sweden are reducing their voting weight. However, it is equally important for Norway that the new voting rules can increase the speed of decisions in the EU system. This, I believe, and the Central Party should state that with the EEA Agreement, Norway should negotiate a different implementation rate than the one currently in force. Norway has good cooperation with the EU - cultural, research and political - among others. UN. Norway contributes about 10 pst. of our allocations to the EEA for the EU research and technology programme, and have participated with Norwegian researchers in almost 10 pst. of the programmes. 3 500 Norwegian researchers are a large proportion of the population. But I would also like to stress that the technological knowledge that exists in Norway is by far the result of the active industrial policy we have had historically, not least in the energy sector. That is why we are already seeing an emerging cooperation on wind turbines in Ireland, where Norwegian and Danish technology will be included, and the EU is interested in Norwegian CO2 deposition. I see that the EU is now presenting proposals for guidelines on State aid for environmental promotion, and this has been a leading point in the issue of a CO2 deposit on Kårstø. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs says, not only the EU but also ESA will be crucial for Norway's ability to pursue an active environmental technology-promoting industrial policy. This only underscores my initial comments. I am pleased that today we can have an active debate on the EU and ESA and on the content of an active European policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e496	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e499	There was a lot of work to do here. It would be interesting to hear whether the parliamentary leader of the Central Party is behind the Minister of Foreign Affairs' statement. But I'm going to go to the ESA question. We have to look at the resource use in ESA, says the representative Breck. It seems to me that if we, for example, not like the speed limits in Norway, and we're tying up the resources of the blackmail police. This is not about the credibility of the EEA Agreement as a whole, and about having predictability, a certainty that everyone will comply with the common legislation, even though it may not be optimal from time to time, from the Norwegian side - some of us win, some of us lose, some of us are satisfied with, etc.? The control body - is this the right place to start cracking if we don't like what's in the EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e509	The representative, Høglund, questions whether we are behind the Minister of Foreign Affairs' statement. Of course we do. But what we are concerned about is that, in the context of the Minister of Foreign Affairs' presentation, we should have an active debate on the challenges facing the EU, which are contained in the EEA Agreement, and which lies within the ESA. We believe, of course, that we must also be able to question some of the developments we see. We have also seen that the representative of Höglund and other representatives have said that the European Union is developing, we have seen that ESA is evolving, and we have seen that it demands new ideas from our side. When ESA challenges the Norwegian people's will, it has to be discussed, and that's what was the starting point for my post.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e516	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e519	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a full statement. I particularly noticed two points, which I want to start with. One is the prospect of less impact for Norwegian views in Brussels. This is based on a sober assessment of actual conditions, which we can do little to counteract on the Norwegian side. I think, among other things: on the European Communication from the Government, which calls for ‘more offensive Norwegian interests towards the EU’. However, good intentions in this area do not go far beyond significant systemic changes in the EU that do not necessarily work in our favour. With 27 Member States, it is obvious that a foreign country such as Norway has limited leeway, except in some areas, such as oil and fish. Furthermore, the disappearance of the EU's pillar structure is intended to promote more holistic solutions. This allows policy decisions relating to the internal market or Schengen cooperation, in which Norway is integrated, to cover an increasing number of issues outside these areas. The result is likely to be less impact for Norwegian views. The second point I noticed was that the European Parliament will have greater influence as a result of the Treaty of Lisbon. This could help to reduce the EU’s democratic deficit, which is very positive from the point of view of a liberal. For Norway, however, this is not necessarily an advantage, as the European Parliament is among the European institutions with which we have the least intervention. This underlines the importance of developing contact areas with our European colleagues in the European Parliament. The Minister of Foreign Affairs said that the financing mechanism for Norway’s contribution to the smoothing of economic and social disparities in Europe expires on 30 April 2009. According to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Norway has no legal obligation to continue these contributions. On the other hand, the EU considers that it is possible to derive an obligation under Article 115 of the EEA Agreement on social and economic cohesion contributions. Experience suggests that negotiations with the EU on the EFTA contribution to cohesion, mainly covered by Norway, can be very tough. Nothing indicates that this will change when new negotiations are about to begin. It is estimated that the EU will require a solid increase in the contribution of EFTA countries. Yes, the press has even suggested an increase of 50 pst. This reflects the fact that the need for social and economic cohesion remains high in the EU and that the EU believes that small kingdoms of Norway should pick up their share of the bill. And indeed, we do not have much to deal with in the negotiations. Without risk, the EU may threaten to reconsider the EEA Agreement if the parties do not reach agreement. From the Norwegian side, we are therefore wise to prepare ourselves for paying more. I think we should go into the negotiations with the aim that the Norwegian contribution should not go significantly beyond the other rich EU country contributing per capita. At the same time, we should regard this as a joint contribution to the EU project with a view to breaking down old historical dividing lines in Europe, both political, social and economic. Even without the EEA, we should contribute to this in order to promote prosperity and stability in our own continent. Furthermore, we should follow up on the efforts to make contributions as Norwegian as possible, i.e. that they should be administered from Norway, involve Norwegian partners and contribute to promoting cooperation between Norway and EU countries receiving the contributions. Furthermore, we should be able to define the main areas of action, including, inter alia,: focus on climate and environment. In addition, I would like to refer to what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his statement that: ‘The arrangements create increased knowledge of Norway and interest in Norway — yes, they can contribute to a positive reputation’. This I think is very positive. It makes even more sense to contribute to the EU's cohesion of economic and social differences in Europe. I also want to add that, in my opinion, the Norwegian contributions are not excessive compared with what we get from the EEA Agreement. Despite a number of recommendations, including in writing, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has not yet explained the Government's view of the Services Directive here in the UK. This is probably one thing that the red-green government has problems with. It has bought some time by carrying out consultation and impact assessment, which is certainly good for those who want a Norwegian veto against the directive, and for those who do not want to challenge the EU in this matter. When the investigations are available in the summer, there are probably some hard draws. I believe that those who fight social dumping have chosen the wrong arena far on the way when they have flashed out the Services Directive as their main opponent. Work against social dumping of pay and working conditions is primarily governed by labour law and by collective agreements as well as by revision of the Norwegian Public Service Act. These are aspects that are not covered by the Services Directive. Furthermore, it can be mentioned that the Government has created a separate action plan against social dumping. A main objection to the Services Directive is that it makes it easier to compete for cross-border services. However, this is one of the key principles underlying the EEA Agreement. It should be noted that the provision of services is of major and growing importance to the Norwegian economy and that a European market for services offers us great opportunities. As far as the Data Storage Directive is concerned, I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has noticed that major questions relating to privacy have been raised. The left realises that it is more difficult to promote privacy in practice than in theory. We realize that privacy sometimes has to give way to the fight against terrorism and organised crime. However, we believe that the Data Storage Directive goes far too far in interfering with the right of ordinary citizens to private communications. Terrorists want to spread fear and undermine our open and liberal societies. If we keep restricting privacy in the name of the fight against terrorism, we let the terrorists win this fight. I am one of those who believe that my private correspondence should remain private as long as I am not suspected of anything criminal. We have seen how the red-green government here in Stortinget has tried to create a picture that it was the EU that posed the problem in relation to the planned CO2 treatment plant in Mongstad, and not the Government itself. It had made its promises of clean-up before providing an adequate overview of the EU State aid rules for such sewage treatment plants. I think this is probably a little constructive way of dealing with the EU, for example. in contributing to international efforts to combat climate change. Finally, I would like to point out the EU's climate trading system. This is an area where the European Union has played an important role and has been ahead of us. The EU's quota trading system, of which we are now part, is the most comprehensive of its kind in the world. I think it is very positive that the system of free climate allowances will gradually disappear and that new greenhouse gases will be included. Furthermore, on the Norwegian side, we have good reason to be satisfied that the Commission proposes to include capture, transport and storage in the quota system. In addition, the EU has been useful for the red-green government to raise CO2 quotas that can be taken out by purchasing in developing countries in the context of Norway’s adaptation to the EU quota system. In view of this, I regard the EU as an important partner for us in promoting a better global environment. The EU has been shown to be ahead of Norway in some areas, while we are ahead of the EU in other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e575	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e578	Over time, it has been a little difficult to find a clear thread or a clear direction in the Left’s relationship with the EU. It is likely that the lot is very divided in terms of this ratio. We know that there was a scarce majority who voted against EU membership by seven votes in favour at the 2005 Landesmögung in the Left. According to the Left's principal programme committee, you want to go for a Norwegian EU membership, and the Left leader, Sponheim, has shown a - call it - moving attitude towards the yes-page. In the past, the centre parties have been three clear no-parties together. How does the representative Larsen Left assess the future position of EU membership?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e585	Thank you for the question. The EU question shall be and shall be the subject of a live discussion also in the Left. As the representative Breck said, there was a narrow majority at the national meeting who said no when it came to the 2005 Grand Elections Programme. I believe that there is still a living discussion in our party about this. There are a lot of people who want membership, and there are a lot of people who think that the time is not right for it. This discussion deals with positive things like the peace project, we're talking about Turkey, and we're talking about oil and climate. But we are also talking about less democracy, and in areas such as agriculture and fisheries, we have not come that far. This discussion will continue, and the question will be clarified when we prepare our 2009 Majority Election Programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e592	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e596	I would like to thank you for your contributions to the statement and understand that it has served its purpose in triggering a debate in the Chamber. Let me first say that when I have said that something is more ‘demanding’, it does not mean that it automatically becomes less pervasive, but it is an attempt to describe that the terrain we are going to go through changes. We may then have to change the form of work, the intensity and the resources, not only from the Government, but also from the Stortinget and other parts of the Norwegian community. I think these statements must be a mix of a sober description of what the EU we are seeing, as well as some issues. Now the representative, Vallersnes, commented that he had read my post so that the eye became “big and wet”. It's usually a compliment. In addition, he thought it was because the statement was long. This might help to explain that I could not mention all the directives that are in pipe-line, as it is called. The Health Directive is such an important directive that we now have for observation, and I will find the opportunity to come back to the Stortinge with it in an appropriate way. I have nothing new to say about the Services Directive in relation to what I have said earlier. And then I notice that there will be an increased focus on the Data Storage Directive, and that is positive. I would warn against debating that directive on the basis of simplified images, whether it is from one side or the other. So it is not a directive, as far as I understand, that has been introduced to restrict people's personality. There is also an argument here that, as the European Commission's ambassador writes in Norwegian newspapers today, is based on a very serious phenomenon, namely crime, new forms of crime, so we need to discuss this in the most serious way. I am also doubtful about the question of launching a major investigation into our forms of association. I would like to join the representative Højbråten's assessment here. I think there is a tendency for us to have some kind of alliance between those who want an investigation that will turn out in the obvious yes to membership, and those who want an investigation that will lead to the fact that the EEA Agreement is not really a good alternative for Norway either. I believe that we have a thorough ongoing investigation of the EEA Agreement. It happened in the period of the previous government. We're doing it on an ongoing basis, and I think we're now going to gather our resources and make the best of the form of connection we have. As I said, we're going into a more demanding terrain, and it's going to take a lot of us to focus on what's going to happen to exploit those possibilities. Now, if we're going to get caught up in something that could be kind of a skin debate about alternatives that don't bring us anything special forward from where we are, I'm basically sceptical about it. And then I value those people who say that we've had a good impact on a lot of points. We have worked on this, whether it is a differentiated employer's fee or other matters. But I think we have to be sober and say that this cannot automatically be measured against what we would achieve if we were a member of the European Union. When we mention a list of issues where we think we have affected, and then ask our neighboring country Sweden what they think they have affected, we would also see a list of what opportunities they had had. The new Finnish Minister for Foreign Affairs, who was a European Parliamentarian, says that, with the new Treaty, a European parliamentarian has a greater influence over the law than a national minister. Yes, there are questions. It's a subjective assessment, but it raises questions about influence channels and our access to them. Then I would say to the representative Breck, who says that ESA has the right to challenge the ‘Norwegian people’, that I think that is right. And the purpose of the Authority is to actually challenge the countries on the basis of how they comply with a law that the elected representatives have been involved in. And if it's true that the people's will in each country from month to month determines the rules to be followed by the countries, we lose the predictability that this agreement is meant to give. Let's not forget that ESA, which is going to see us in the cards and therefore can be an unpleasant body, is a wild body and a very important body to get the predictability that the EEA Agreement is supposed to give. Then the representative was very busy using the Nordic channel. He himself has contributed to this through his presidency of the Nordic Council. It is important that we all, in a partnership between big business and government, work to keep those channels alive. A week ago, the Nordic Foreign Ministers met in Stockholm and agreed to deepen cooperation both in Europe and in other bodies where we sit together - the Baltic Sea Council, the Barents Cooperation and the UN. But I think we should be here too. When Sweden, Finland and Denmark look after allies regarding the legislative process in the EU, they will look at Norway and Iceland before they look at other EU countries, which are involved in the legislative process in the EU. But, of course, we are going to use the Nordic countries as important channels for us to promote our vision, as well as working towards a number of other EU countries. So there was a question of the late implementation rate and this 22nd place. Of course, a 22nd place out of 30 is a part of the list in relation to what Norway usually has ambitions about. But I want to say that the main reason why this is the case is not that we're slowing down, but that others are doing the job they're going to do, that's to implement. The EU has a kind of target that there should only be a 1.5 pst residue list. We're well under that list. There are several countries that have come under it, and that is positive. The representative Breck was concerned that there was a bit too high an implementation rate, if I understood him correctly. I believe that we are served at a high implementation rate. It has always been a Norwegian tradition and a Nordic tradition to be quick to implement the directives and international agreements we agree to adopt. With regard to the EEA financial instruments, I would just like to say once again to the representative Breck: the European Commission has a great bureaucracy, and this can be discussed in many contexts. But you have to relieve them of responsibility here, because here they actually have no function. Here it is the EFTA countries, the EEA Financial Mechanisms, which adopt support. Norway adopts for the Norwegian part, and what would have to be of bureaucracy here is what we have to take responsibility for. I'm actually glad that there's a certain bureaucracy in this area, because there are many different project applications of very diverse quality. We have to review them very carefully so that we can see Norwegian taxpayers in our eyes and say that the money has been used well. We are going to go into those negotiations thoroughly. We are not going to be an easy negotiator there with regard to neither the amount nor the device. We're going to do it according to Norwegian interests, as best we can. There is not much time, but the representative Højbråten was concerned about the judgments concerning the rights of workers, and that is an important field. In January we discussed in detail two of these judgments in the European Committee. Now there's a new sentence that's important. From the Norwegian side, it has been important to intervene in those cases and give our opinion in support of the parties that have emphasised the rights of workers, the fight against social dumping. Following the Viking Line judgment, LO stated that they considered it positive that the European Court of Justice recognised the use of collective means of combat - a very important field for us to ring - as a fundamental right. Nor is the Laval judgment presumed to have an impact on the Norwegian public service scheme, which is important. The third sentence, the so-called Dirk Rüffert judgment, is relatively fresh, and we must continue to work on analysing it. As we read now, I would like to say that important principles here are about the Posting of Workers Directive - i.e. where Member States are obliged to ensure that posted workers are paid according to the minimum wage of the host country. It's a very important principle. What is the question in this final judgment is whether the principle was respected or violated by the employee, and the transformation that took place in this complicated German case. We will assess this more thoroughly and come back to Stortinget with our analysis when available. Finally, the EEA financial instruments. When it comes to a lot of this other thing we're doing in relation to, we're talking about promoting Norwegian interests. And we're going to do that! That's our goal. But I think we are also well served to recognise that very many of the EU's interests in the arrangement of its cooperation are also Norwegian interests. They are collapsing, and so it is promoting Norwegian interests that we engage closely in the cooperation that is going on here. When I call this "our closest globalization project," it's because it's on this arena we have the most intervention. That was a point in my presentation. Sometimes we are not fully aware of the extent to which the various EU decisions, the different EU investigation processes, have a direct impact on what we adopt by law and regulation in our own country, and on what is also involved in political coordination. That's why there's no reason to take the focus away from the coming months and years.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e630	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e633	I initially agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs when he says that ‘investigation of our various forms of association’ is not what we need first and foremost now. In its statement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs addresses the problem of the disintegration of the pillar structure with the new Treaty of Lisbon - and the whole relationship between it and the EEA Agreement. I also took some of this up in my post. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs see that there may be a need to lift the cap in discussing the EEA agreement - as it was written a few years ago, as it exists today? Can the way to go be looking at adjustments and changes, and maybe go as far as looking at renegotiation? Can the Foreign Minister say a little about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e642	The starting point is that this is an agreement that serves both parties. Therefore, we must assume that we can have a dialogue with the EU that the agreement will work as intended for both parties. The EU is a dynamic cooperation that is changing and where there have been several Treaty changes. The EEA Agreement is more static. I do not exclude that there will be a need to have conversations with the EU on how cooperation works. The EU and Norway are bound by this 1994 agreement, but as I said, this is not an agreement that is at the expense of the other. It's a joint interest agreement. In all my contacts with the EU, I have noticed that there is an interest in honoring this agreement and living up to it. Whether this barometric is going to create a problem when it comes to defining whether an act is EEA-relevant, it can open up a discussion about whether we need better methods. There is no fundamental question against constantly improving a contractual basis, but the fundamental question is whether the investigation of this agreement is appropriate for Norway. I'll ask you a question about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e651	There is an EU debate on Iceland. For the first time in a long time, a recent poll showed a clear overweight for membership. Now it may seem hypothetical to consider what influence and consequences it will have for Norway if there is any application for membership from Iceland. However, such challenges can come quickly. We remember Sweden's application coming surprisingly to Finland - they were probably taken a little on the bed. The question is whether the Government is prepared for a situation where a similar application from Iceland comes as surprising to us?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e658	It was the case that Denmark’s EU membership had no decisive influence on Norway’s 1972 vote. The fact that Sweden and Finland went into 1995, did not tip the result in Norway, so I think we should be quite sober about it. Of course, we're following the situation on Iceland very carefully -- for two reasons. One is that it is a neighbouring country that is close to us and that has many common issues with Norway in important areas, particularly in the area of marine resources. The second is that Iceland is a partner in the EEA - a completely necessary partner. To put it this way: any Icelandic membership - I personally follow closely whether it should develop there, but I don't mean to see that it should be an immediate incident - I think I will have a greater impact on Norway, not in relation to the membership issue, but in relation to what it will mean for the EEA Agreement. But both of them need to be followed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e665	Let me first say that I am very satisfied with the way in which the Minister for Foreign Affairs responds with regard to the EEA Agreement, both its position and its development, and also what he said about structuring Nordic cooperation towards Europe. I will, for my part, and we for our part, try to follow up in the best way. I have a question relating to the Treaty of Lisbon, which was at the heart of the Foreign Minister's presentation, namely whether he could reflect a little on the influence of small countries. In fact, the weighting of votes for the smallest countries is partly significantly reduced by the changes made to the Treaty of Lisbon. How does the Minister for Foreign Affairs, together, assess the influence of small countries in the EU after the implementation of the Treaty? Let me also ask, since others have been involved, to confirm what I consider to be an obvious thing, that the Treaty with its annexes is translated into Norwegian and made available to the public, as requested by both the European Movement and No to the European Union.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e674	Finally, we look at it carefully, and I think it would be natural for us to do so. In the case of small countries, it is a major issue. The changes in the voting rules also raise a very committed debate in the EU. From a democratic point of view, I am not quite sure in what direction to describe that development. After all, it brings the number of voting rights more in a proportional direction, and it can also be said to be a democratic price tip. But it is clear that for smaller countries it also involves some emotions. But now it has been agreed on that agreement with consensus on the negotiating side at least, and now it has to be ratified. Although there is now an increase in the use of majority decisions, the impression I still have is that very few small countries feel that they are being overrun because they are small - because consensus decisions are largely taken through long processes where countries are given the opportunity to take care of their concerns. We also record that most of the countries now entering the EU are in the small country category, so they are at least not dismayed by those who get little to say - they go in to get more to say. They see themselves profiting more from it than from standing outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e683	I will follow up on this with the Treaty of Lisbon. In his statement to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, he stated that the Treaty of Lisbon would lead to a weakening of the influence of Norway in the EU. At the same time, we remember the government's high ambitions for an offensive European policy in St.meld. No 23 for 2005-2006, on the implementation of European policy. Will the implementation of the Treaty of Lisbon require the Government to reduce its level of ambition, or will the Government deploy more resources to implement its ambitious European policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e692	It is strange for me and for this government to say that when something becomes more demanding, we lower the ambitions. What I tried to illustrate in this statement by what I think was a sober description is that this is going to be more demanding. But the basic sentence that I should perhaps have had is that I believe that the Treaty of Lisbon will make the EU more effective, with more democratic cooperation and better European cooperation. It is in the basic Norwegian interest. That part of the balance sheet is going to be strengthened, as I judge it. There's different visions. And then I point out that it's going to require more of us, because we have to adapt the way we work. I think we need to take that as a positive and exciting challenge. Whether it's going to require more resources, I'm not necessarily sure, but it's going to require us to use the resources we have, in a way more adapted to the situation we're now facing, for example. of the European Parliament. I'm going to use all the opportunities I have to visit Parliament, meet the members and accept the invitations we get to come and make posts there, for example.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e699	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e703	The Minister for Foreign Affairs said that the relationship between Norway and the EU is very good, as underlined by Mr Barroso’s visit in February. The Minister of Foreign Affairs also argued that there is a broad spectrum in our relationship with the European Union that often does not emerge, and I agree with him that the regular statements and subsequent debates can help to improve the visibility of this spectrum of cooperation. I also agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that we need to monitor the close cooperation of the EU countries in a growing number of areas and that we need to use familiar and innovative ways of participating in this cooperation. In areas such as energy, fish, environment and technology, the EU has interests in us that we need to exploit. Our cooperation with the EU also ensures important market access for Norwegian products, which is crucial for many industries in Norway. The full statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs points out a number of positive aspects of our cooperation with the EU. However, it must not be failed that our cooperation with the EU through the EEA Agreement can also address both problems and challenges. If we look at my old subject, energy, we have a number of examples of such challenges. Nearly ten years ago, after pressure from ESA, Stortinget had to liquidate the government-determined power contracts for Norwegian industry. This type of subsidisation, as it was called, was contrary to EU legislation, and we therefore adopted a phase-out plan for these contracts. However, in 2005, the Stortinget decided to seek out a possible new power regime for industry. The government parties used this decision very actively in the election campaign the same year, and promised without reservation to introduce a new power regime for the industry as soon as it became a government. This was also confirmed in the government statement after the election. Despite this, nothing has happened. Both the undersigned and others have repeatedly challenged both the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Economic Affairs and, in particular, the Minister of Oil and Energy, where the power regime was located, without receiving any other response than that this is challenging under the legislation of the EEA Agreement. According to Haugesund's newspaper of 13 February, the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee also says that he shares the impatience of the industrial power regime. And he goes on to say, ‘This is a serious matter for the Norwegian industry, and a solution is urgently needed.’ [[...]] Many industrial workers now feel cheated by the government party's election vows, which turn out to be only empty constituencies, and which are now jeopardizing industrial investment in the billions class. Another challenge that also concerns this type of industry is the Norwegian fall-back scheme, which is also contrary to EEA legislation. ESA came on 20 February 2002 with a so-called Reasoned Opinion, claiming that the discrimination between private owned and publicly owned power plants had to cease within 60 days. Now, over six years later, a new piece of legislation has still not been put in place, only a proposal that is supposed to respect national ownership, but which does not in any way meet the needs of power-generating industries. The private sector that currently owns power plants are mainly industrial enterprises that use the power of value creation in Norway. Would it be so wrong for them to continue to be able to maintain power on condition that it is used for continued industrial activities in Norway? These are two of many examples of how our EEA membership also poses challenges. There are also two examples that we have a government that has not shown the necessary power of action, either to follow election promises or to agree with itself and to promote the necessary proposals for the Storting. Of course, our relationship with the EU through the EEA Agreement has many opportunities and benefits, but also problems and challenges. However, I hope that the Government for the future will deal with this in a much better and more offensive way than it has done in the two examples in the energy sector to which I have referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e730	For example, Minister of Foreign Affairs Gahr Støre used a significant part of his statement to talk about our common energy and climate challenges. EU countries and Norway have common challenges to address these issues. The man-made climate change is not just a Norwegian challenge; it is not just an EU challenge; it is a common global challenge that makes us all in the same boat. We can only solve these kinds of political issues through international cooperation. Cooperation with our neighbouring countries on climate and environment and joint commitments with the EU will therefore become absolutely vital and crucial in the coming period, if we are to achieve our objectives. Norway is not a small, insignificant country far north, as some claim; our country is a respected international partner, and we are also a significant international player in many areas. An example of such an area is the energy area. And energy is a very important component in solving our common climate challenges. Both Norway and the EU have set specific and ambitious targets for greenhouse gas reductions. Earlier this year, 23 January, the Commission presented a package of proposals on how to tackle climate challenges. The Council and the European Parliament are now expected to adopt the details of this package by spring 2009. There are ambitious and binding EU targets: the EU should reduce its climate emissions by 20 pst. by 2020. Through the Climate Change Communication and the Climate Change Agreement, Norway has decided to overfill the Kyoto Agreement: we are going to reduce our emissions by 30 pst. by 2020, and we're going to be carbon neutral by 2030. Both the EU and Norway have set specific and ambitious targets, but this is only the beginning of a comprehensive and long-term work. Together with our political friends in the European Union, we must take the further course. We must be ambitious in this matter on behalf of our children and grandchildren. The EU has pointed to the commitment to new renewable energy as one of its main areas of activity in order to achieve its objectives. This also coincides with our national policy objectives and with the multiplicity of the Government’s commitment to new renewable energy. As a major energy nation, we should nevertheless cooperate with the EU in this field, where appropriate. We have common goals, and we can learn from each other. We need to take advantage of this for our common good. The EU's quota trading system, of which we are now part, is the most comprehensive in the world. The vision for trading carbon quotas must be that it is global. It is only when the quota system becomes global that there can be an important tool and a large resource in this context. The Commission also proposes that the system of free climate allowances should gradually lapse. This is in line with what the Government is working for, and I believe there is a broad consensus here in the Storting. Norway has the commitment to carbon capture and storage as one of its main objectives. The EU has shown considerable interest in Norway’s work in this area. None of our CO2 management projects can be realised without significant public funding. The EU's interest and understanding of our ambitious efforts in this area are promising well in view of any future conflicts related to the EU State aid rules. The political signals from the EU and the work done by the Government so far are a good starting point for our joint future work in this area. We are pleased that the Commission is proposing to include capture and storage - that is, CCS - in the quota system. This is a strong and positive signal from the EU on this issue. The threat of man-made climate change is common to all of us, and in the future will connect us even more closely. The EU is a major and important player and consists of our neighbouring country. Strong, good and solidarity with the EU is therefore very important in our joint work towards the Copenhagen climate summit in 2009. Global challenges require global solutions, and global solutions require international cooperation. The EU is an important international player. Therefore, we must and must cooperate closely with the European Union in the time that comes when environmental and climate issues are at stake.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e756	Everyone has been very good and thanked the Minister of Foreign Affairs for an excellent presentation, and I will do that for myself. It's right as the debate has said, that no one has to be in doubt about what the Right objective is. The representative of Vallersnes has made this quite clear to the House. On the other hand, I think the Stortinget has not today taken advantage of the challenge that the Minister for Foreign Affairs served the Stortinget in his EEA statement. When the Minister of Foreign Affairs fears less EU penetration for Norwegian EU policy and Norwegian EEA participation, we should have taken that challenge a little more into consideration than this debate today indicates. I think each of us used this opportunity to talk about ‘what’s in it for me’, that is, the benefits for the different parties we represent, from our own point of view, and we also used the opportunity to ignore the fact that Europe is in strong motion. The number 28, which the Minister of Foreign Affairs pointed to in his presentation, is quite interesting. The issue today, when the European Parliament now has greater political influence, is how we should be able, on the Norwegian side, to maintain the influence we already have today, where Parliament becomes more or less politically equal to the Council of Ministers. It is our big challenge at a time when the major issues are making us increasingly dependent on Europe's understanding, on Europe's political participation, and not least on Europe's political support. As the previous speaker, Nordtun, pointed out, the major challenges - at least in our time - concern the environment, energy, climate and resources. We have seen and know that our part of Europe is going to be one of the world's largest energy provinces. We see that we might be challenged in this area in the future. We have no unresolved conflicts in our neighbourhood - not in the Norwegian economic zone. We don't even have a Norwegian economic zone around Svalbard. We have a 200-mile fishing protection zone. When an attempt was made to establish an economic zone around Svalbard, profitably done by then State Secretary Kjetil Skogrand, we saw that the treaty partners woke up and conducted a meeting without Norwegian participation. Therefore, it is important that we bear in mind that with the situation we have around the climate and energy challenges, in the field of tension between Europe's participation and Russia, we need to have greater understanding and participation from Europe in these issues. These challenges will be on ongoing bonds in the future in terms of energy demand. We know the numbers of how this demand will increase. Europe and the rest of the world's dependence in line with increased energy demand is going to put our area more and more in focus. Then we need a bigger debate on how to maintain political influence at today's level. Otherwise, the option, as it might seem, is going to be even smaller. One would like to talk about participation in the Nordic Council and think it is important. I also think that we should call for our participation in the Nordic Council, and we should also call for participation and cooperation with Russia in our neighbourhood debate. But I have a creeping feeling that our neighbouring countries, Finland, Sweden and Denmark, are increasingly looking at participation in the Nordic Council not as not necessary enough, but that it is in many ways becoming a left-hand job, using their political influence and resources more and more in line with participation in the European Parliament's activities. Europe will invest 3 000 to 4 000, perhaps 5 000, billion DKK in new renewable energy in the next 11 to 12 years. This debate, this participation, must be attended by Norway. We know that our political lunar landing in the energy, climate and environment debate - Kårstø, Mongstad, CO2 capture and storage - is also dependent on our acceptance, political understanding and support in Europe. In all areas in the future, we must be willing to take on board the fact that Europe is changing, and thank you and the price for it, but it must not change so quickly that we cannot name what is happening - see. the debate that is taking place in Iceland today - and is being held by the whole debate. I hope not.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e774	Security policy is two statements that have come in the past that it is worth taking with them when one discusses the EU. It is the responsibility of the Chief of Defence, Densen, to denationalise the defence in most European countries. Then we also have the analysis that came from the Defence Policy Selection, that we cannot count on our main allies, NATO, in the day-to-day enforcement of sovereignty and territorial requirements in the North. So the question is, is it that the EU is the answer to the new challenges? I don't think so. We also know that the collective security that lies in NATO is quite solid, but we'll need other partners, not least in the North. What kind of solutions can we see lead us? I thought that a Nordic solution was going very much on. It turns out that then we will work together with EU countries, such as Finland, Sweden and Denmark. But there is in no way any contradiction in it, because neither Brussels nor Washington will object to a cooperation on their security in a region such as the North. Then I see that a strong foreign policy environment, such as NUPI, Iver B. Neumann and others, suggests that we should get out of the treaty we are in and into the EU. This is a fresh debate. We also see that the EU has ambitions when it comes to security policy, through its EDA cooperation and, of course, through the ESDP. And for all intents and purposes: we have already established operational cooperation in Norway, just in peacetime, primarily with Iceland and Denmark about enforcement there. In addition, we have cooperation through the Nordic Battle Group, which has not yet been implemented, but there are at least intentions to create security through Nordic cooperation within an EU framework. We can do that without being a member. There's no problem with that. So there is no doubt that in terms of security policy, we can stand firm on what has been the Norwegian line, simply self-imposed demarcations towards our most important partners in the north, simply Russia. And we can still safely believe that the Justice Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has done a good job so far, and it has proved to be historic. Of course, the policy of the Minister for the Law of the Sea Jens Evensen was the main expression. But it is in the continuation of that policy, through the United Nations system, that Norway's goal will be best achieved. We must never be in doubt about that. Of course, it will happen through negotiations, negotiations, negotiations and not necessarily through it to show different types of power, but through self-imposed restraints, and of course by showing that we mean what we mean when we need to mean it in relation to jurisdiction and enforcement in the north. So the debate that comes up, if the EU is the answer to this, I would like to welcome you very much. So the solution might be an even closer relationship in the Nordic region, which we've already started. We have not come here in the form of doctrines or tracts. But I would like to remind you that two days ago in Oslo, in the Polytechnic Association, the Finnish Defence Chief said that what he wanted was a Finnish army, a Swedish aircraft and a Norwegian Navy. That was his highest wish. His Majesty the King was sitting right in front of him, and he said straight away that this was Finland's great wish. Culturally, this doesn't mean anything. We've built our security policy on one thing, and that's the Kekkonen's experience with the Soviet Union. And the advice we got from the Kekkon was not bad at taking care of Norway's tart.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e781	The forthcoming negotiations on future EEA financial instruments are an important topic. As a member of the EFTA Parliamentary Committee and the EEA Joint Parliamentary Committee, I would like to add a few words to this. We have had discussions on the financing arrangements with EU parliamentarians in the Joint EEA Parliamentary Committee. The annual contribution to social and economic cohesion was greatly increased in 2004 when the EU was enlarged by ten new Member States. Before that time, it was probably a part of the EU that believed that Norway was a rich country that safeguarded its interests through the EEA Agreement but that contributed a little of its wealth to solidarity with the poorest countries in the EEA region. This image has since been thoroughly desiccated. After that, Norway, as a contributor, has been at the top of the EU with the EU country of Luxembourg in terms of solidarity contributions to the new poor Member States. In addition, Norway is at the top of international aid to the world’s poorest countries, developing countries on the southern side of the globe. We have proved that we are acting as a solidarity nation. It is in the light of this that I must allow myself to express some wonder that some circuits in the EU will obviously demand a further level increase in Norwegian contributions. Firstly, I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that Norway has no legal obligations to continue its current financial instruments. Secondly, we have an EEA agreement negotiated as a balanced agreement, with benefits for both parties, both EU countries and EFTA countries participating. It's of mutual benefit that we open our markets to each other. So the EEA Agreement is not a gift package that gives benefits to just one road, and that is why you have to pay to get a part of it. Thirdly, Norway is already at the top of European solidarity if it measures contributions per year. the population. New, non-cash demands from the EU would, in my view, paint a little flattening picture of the European Union. I am afraid it would weaken confidence in the EU among the Nordics most. In the discussions I have had with MEPs from the European Union, the strength of their expectations for Norway has been very strong. I believe that the challenges for Norway can also be great in the future. In this context, it is reassuring to hear the foreign minister’s position on the forthcoming negotiations. I think it is a good idea for the Minister of Foreign Affairs when he will consider presenting a communication focusing on the projects and results of the EEA funding schemes. One should also evaluate how the management of the schemes has worked, and would like to compare them with the intra-EU transmission systems. Unfortunately, EU regional policy is one of the areas where there has been little evidence of improvement in the accounts. In 2006, according to the EU audit body, about 30 billion district policy crowns were subject to errors and poor control. I assume that there is more order in the schemes that Norway is financing within the EEA. Finally, I would like to mention that, next week in the EEA Joint Parliamentary Committee, we are putting health policy in the EEA area on the agenda. This is a comprehensive and also demanding area, not least in the EU with so many different health systems. This has also been on the agenda for quite a long time within the EU. Our debate will be based on a report to which MEPs from Norway and the European Union have contributed. We already see before the debate that there will be exciting, but also challenging, discussions between EU and EEA countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e807	Like others in the Chamber, I would like to start by thanking both the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a very good presentation and thanking him for the subsequent good debate that it has started. We need it in the Stortinget, as in the rest of society, after at least 12 years of little debate and an increasing pace of adaptation to EU legislation. The Central Party parliamentary leader, Lars Peder Breck, has said the most important thing about our position on the challenges with the EU and the EEA and our opportunities and wishes in terms of cooperation. Of course, I agree entirely with what he has said. However, I especially need to mention two issues. One concerns the North, the other concerns the EU free trade agreements with its former colonies in Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific. The Minister of Foreign Affairs referred to the EU as Norway’s closest globalisation project. What I experience when I visit the Churches and other places in our northern part of the country and our red-green party traps there is that their closest ‘globalization project’, if I can use that designation, are all the neighbouring countries to which they relate at all times. Of course, it is the EU countries Finland and Sweden, but also Russia, Iceland, Greenland and more distant Canada and the United States. They think the North Callot, the Poles and the Barents region. They think people-to-people cooperation, environment, resource management and industrial cooperation integrated. Our strategic position towards the Barents Sea is something the EU envyes us. We have access to water, rich natural resources and energy. We still have viable populations of fish and potential for farming. We cover 15 pst. of both EU gas needs and oil needs. Norway is central to the EU energy security strategy. Furthermore, we have a bilateral relationship with Russia - and I stress myself - autonomously. The EU is making an offensive north-eastern strategy well aware that they depend on Norway to succeed. In the Central Party, we assume that the EU has such a strong interest in the north that Norway has a much stronger negotiating position than if we had been the 28th country in the Union. That said, research programmes, monitoring against illegal fishing, climate technologies, security and stability in Eastern Europe, which are also Russia’s neighbourhoods, are important areas of cooperation between Norway and the EU. It is essential for Norway to look beyond its own borders, while respecting the right of other countries to choose their own path of development. It brings me to the second theme that I want to address and that gives me a lot of concern. Voluntary organisations and many red-green parliamentarians in the EU express great concern at the free trade agreements negotiated by the EU with its former colonies. Preliminary agreements were concluded with 35 countries at the beginning of 2008. The United Nations Economic Commission for Africa has announced extensive deindustrialisation, increased unemployment and agricultural degradation. Organisations such as Oxfam and World Development Movement launch ahead of the UNCTAD meeting in Ghana reports showing how unilateral these agreements are with some of the world’s poorest countries and what benefits they provide to the EU. Some effects include balance of payments problems, lower tax input, poorer loan opportunities for farmers, impaired ability to regulate effectively foreign investment, and increased unemployment and poverty. Aids and threats of increased customs duties force developing countries to open their markets to European companies with which they cannot compete. I hope we can contribute to asymmetric agreements like the EFTA-SACU agreement, and although Norway certainly has an improvement potential, at least we have a political opportunity to choose another policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e826	The Minister for Foreign Affairs said that the Nordic countries have a common approach to issues such as climate, environment, conflict resolution, human rights, social issues and food security. I strongly support his view that Norway must prioritise and make maximum use of these Nordic opportunities and cooperate with the Nordic countries or with just some of them where appropriate. There is a lot to gain and nothing to lose in close Nordic cooperation in these areas. From a Norwegian point of view, it is particularly important to ensure that euro policy issues relevant to Norway are discussed in an early Nordic circle. It will then be possible for Norway to influence - indirectly correctly - the internal discussions in the EU on matters of relevance to us. Norwegian authorities at all levels must continue their efforts to expand and deepen the contact network in the Nordic European Union. This also applies to the parliamentary network against the European Parliament. The Minister for Foreign Affairs also stresses the relationship with North-West Russia in his speech. This is a vision I'm giving out completely. Through Nordic cooperation, in Barents' cooperation, in Arctic cooperation, in Baltic Sea cooperation, we who are members are there, in close contact with Russian politicians at both regional and central level. I would urge the Minister for Foreign Affairs to follow up the opinions and declarations of parliamentary cooperation meetings, regional meetings and conferences and to return to the various forums what is really happening with the parliamentary initiatives taken. Now I know that the Norwegian Minister for Foreign Affairs is in a special class and a little bit better than the other foreign ministers in the Nordic region to follow this up. If he gets the other foreign ministers to report back to the parliamentarians what is actually happening, we will be a long step further. I also have a few comments on some of the key and relevant issues that the Minister for Foreign Affairs addressed in his presentation. First to the Copenhagen climate summit in 2009: Norway should be active in relation to the EU and other parties in order to contribute to the development of a new internationally committed climate agreement. I can mention that, on the initiative of the parliamentarians of the Nordic Council, the government side, that is. The Nordic Council of Ministers, launched a Nordic project with the aim of contributing to a good outcome of the negotiations at the United Nations Climate Change Summit in Copenhagen in 2009. Part of this project is to make the impacts of climate change visible in the Arctic. We also have the opportunity to influence the development of legislation in the field of the environment in the EU; for example, the Nordic Chemicals Group played an important role in the work of EU chemicals legislation – REACH. The Group will continue to give priority to putting current chemical issues on the EU agenda. Research cooperation is important both at European and Nordic level. At its 2007 meeting, the Nordic Prime Ministers decided to step up their efforts in a strong Nordic area of knowledge and innovation within a European framework, and now there is a programme proposal for a greater focus on Nordic top-level research to be addressed at the Prime Ministers’ meeting in June this year. The programme proposal focuses primarily on climate, environment and energy. We find joint Nordic institutions, such as NordForsk, Nordic InnovationsCenter and Nordic Energy Research, all of which are located in Norway. The Minister of Foreign Affairs mentioned the development of a single European research area, the European Research Area. Here, Nordic Innovation Centres are already helping to lead and coordinate European research on food security, the so-called SAFEFOODERA network. The aim is to establish a European platform to protect European consumers from health risks related to food intake. This includes fifteen EU Member States, three associated countries and two regional organisations representing a total of 480 million Europeans. My point here is that Nordic institutions can play an important role in a wider European perspective. We need to be aware of this, so that Norway can make the best possible use of all the Nordic tools we have in our European cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e843	The Minister for Foreign Affairs addressed the EU’s climate policy in his presentation. The climate package presented by the EU will affect Norway in many areas. We can expect this to require Norwegian investment in renewable energy production. It's important and good. It gives us new opportunities for both business, jobs and income. Norway has good conditions for wind, water, bio and much else in energy production, but it requires that our national policies consist of more than airy ambitions. We must ensure that the instruments are in line with the objectives set. For example, over two and a half years, the Norwegian wind power industry with the red-green government has had three different support systems to deal with: first green certificate, then a feed-in scheme and now an investment support scheme. So we know that in a few years you'll hopefully get back to green certificates. It is important to cooperate with the EU here, but it is also important to put our legs firmly within our national policies, so that we have predictability that the power industry can meet the objectives that the EU might impose on us. I hope that the Minister of Foreign Affairs will work with the Swedes, with the whole Nordic region, to create a green certificate market that will be the widest possible, and also try to get that work done in Europe. The wider a certificate market, the more robust it becomes, and the less risk of distortion of investment you will experience. The Minister for Foreign Affairs was involved in climate quotas. He talked about trying to remove free allocation in the EU. It's something that most of the pieces are standing behind. The precondition for the Progress Party is to do it in parallel with the EU and not in the forefront. That is why I hope that the Foreign Minister will clarify what kind of race he adds up to. Is this a race that will take place in cooperation or in competition with the EU? The reason why I'm addressing the problem is that SV's Inga Marte Thorkildsen in the major debate on the climate quota law of 18 December 2007 said the following: ‘We have taken an important step beyond the EU when we have decided not to have free allowances after 2012.’ Very well known, the EU does not have that ambition. Although they will reduce in relation to today's free allowances, it's not an ambition to remove it completely in all areas, as No Marte Thorkildsen gives the impression that the Government has decided. There the government must agree with itself, but the approach we support, given, as I said, that all countries do it in parallel. I would also like to remind the Minister for Foreign Affairs that in his statement in November 2007, he himself stressed the need to ensure the conditions of competition for Norwegian industry in climate policy. Looking at the climate quota law that was adopted, it has not been complied with, as industry established after 2002 has a lower competitive environment than industry in all other EU countries, by not being allocated a single free quota. That is why I hope the Government looks at the realities and not just on the intentions, because the intentions here are good, but the consequence is that there is no investment in Norway and the same investment in Sweden or in other EU countries. Nothing has been achieved since then, but Norwegian industry has been prevented from doing so. Several EU countries are now showing an interest in nuclear power plants. It will affect Norway, even if we do not build it here. All our neighbouring countries, except Denmark, have nuclear power plants. Most of our neighbouring countries show an interest in building new or expanding existing ones. Therefore, we should strive for closer cooperation. Membership of Euratom is something I hope the Foreign Minister will strongly consider. Most researchers working on nuclear energy issues in Norway recommend membership of that organisation, regardless of whether it is their opinion that nuclear power plants should be built in Norway, simply to understand what is happening, to build competences and to contribute to Norwegian competence, so that the nuclear power plants built in the EU are as safe as possible. It is in our own interest, because accidents occur during production in a nuclear power plant and during waste management, it will affect Norway whether we like it or not. The last point goes on biofuels. The EU has a 10 pst ambition. blending in their fuel sales by 2020. Norway has even greater ambitions, namely 7 pst. in 2010. Now we are seeing more and more negative consequences as a result of biofuels, including: in the case of food prices - not only because of biofuels, but biofuels contribute to the extreme increase in the price that might have been moderate. Denmark has now turned around. The climate minister says we can't put food on the petrol tank. Gordon Brown has announced that he will consider asking the EU to reduce its targets. I hope the Foreign Minister will do the same, both internally in the Government and towards the EU. Even in the climate notification, the government says that second-generation biofuels will only be available in a minimum of five to ten years. That means having ambition for interference before it's been five years, that is, you burn the first generation. That means you're burning food as a fuel.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e861	First of all, of course, we are a European country outside the EU and outside the EU's decision-making bodies, but integrated into the internal market through the EEA Agreement. This means that Norway and Norwegian interests depend on an active European policy. It's okay. But this is also true of European policy towards countries outside the Union: the Middle East, Afghanistan, the Balkans, Sudan, Chad - including aid and trade policies. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his statement that the Lisbon Treaty also aims to strengthen the EU’s voice globally. The position as High Representative for Foreign Policy is transformed into a Vice-Presidentship with responsibility for Foreign Affairs, and we are given a new EU External Action Service, for example. I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that this is largely positive. Norway shares the same values as the EU is based on. We have broadly similar views on a number of global issues and can work together on issues related to third countries. Next to NATO, the EU has been the stabilising factor in Eastern and Central Europe. The EU and NATO have contributed to democratisation. The enlargement of the NATO Alliance and the EU has been a major solidarity project that has brought Europe together and integrated former authoritarian states into the Euro-Atlantic cooperation. Now, of course, the test will be, as the Foreign Minister said, Kosovo and Serbia, as well as the rest of the Western Balkans. Norway has traditionally had close links with Serbia and has something to do with the EU. Cooperation with Europe is therefore one of our main means of meeting global challenges. Norway has strategic interests in the north. We've focused on the north. The Barents Sea and the Norwegian Sea are among the world's most productive sea areas. Climate change makes areas particularly vulnerable. Here we need alliances. Canada and the United States are important. Dialogue with Russia is crucial. However, first and foremost, we need contact and dialogue with the EU and individual EU countries in order to increase understanding of the northern regions. And let me add: most of the challenges we face in the north are of the kind that NATO has never intended to solve. It's about the environment, about resources, about jurisdiction. In the last 24 hours, there has been a debate on our alliance policy - on the basis of a seminar at the Norwegian Institute of Foreign Policy. Let me stress that I do not share either Iver Neumann's view or, for that matter, FFI researcher Bjørn Olav Knutsen's view that the EU can take over NATO as Europe's security alliance, or that the EU is in the process of taking over the main responsibility for European security, partly at the expense of NATO. For Norway, NATO is the cornerstone of our security policy. Transatlantic cooperation is strong. NATO is also an important forum for the Euro-Atlantic Security Policy debate. At the same time, the ESDP - the EU's defence and security policy - has proved to be more robust than many would predict. Perhaps we are surprised to note that the EU has been conducting 16 major or minor operations since 2003. In the Balkans and Africa in particular, the EU has been active. Then, of course, the forces of the EU and NATO can be seen in many ways as Tordenskiold's soldiers under the Berlin Pluss agreement. Nevertheless, EU operations have actually been demanding, and in Norway we should be prepared that a new self-confident EU with a new treaty will be the centre of gravity on the European side in a transatlantic dialogue, and that also applies to security policy. This is a major challenge for NATO - and, of course, for Norway, which is outside the EU. Finally, Norway has also consistently supported the development of EU security and defence cooperation, because it will strengthen - and has shown to strengthen - the overall capacity for crisis management.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e880	The Minister for Foreign Affairs shall be commended for his honest and undefiled description of Norway’s harsh situation on the outside of an EU that now includes most European countries. There is little doubt that it costs to engage in ever-increasing EU cooperation. The force ratio Norway-EU is a raw lot. The reality is that cooperation in the EU is getting closer, the role of Parliament is becoming more and more important, and to me as a justice politician it is becoming increasingly clear that Norway does not have the desired hand on the wheel. A central issue in justice policy is how we can develop strategies for how countries together can best protect their citizens and society against the threat of cross-border crime. It is clear that in this area, too, EU countries are experiencing very dynamic developments, with the further development of Europol and Eurojust as central tools for combating crime across borders. Norway’s position on the outskirts of Europe does not mean that we are prefigured for international organised crime. It is rather that our wealth seems tempting. Peripheral Norway attracts hard-boiled criminals who bring great values out of the country. Unfortunately, Norway is also a market for those who have made drug trafficking and trafficking their main concern. Trafficking in women and children and sexual abuse of children on the Internet are other forms of crime that can only be effectively combated through new international political initiatives and even closer international police cooperation. The question is how Norway can best set the agenda and influence the formulation of an international justice policy that provides us with the necessary tools to combat such debilitating activities. The work of the Judicial Committee has taught me that the Norwegian police's ability to combat crime with international branches is closely linked to our participation internationally, whether through the UN, Interpol, the Council of Europe or last but not least, the judicial and police bodies of the European Union. New EU initiatives in the field of justice leave the clear impression that Member States want to get more on the offensive in the face of more sophisticated and advanced crime. Here, the interests of the EU and Norway are one hundred percent consistent. Therefore, it is paradoxical that Norway is still outside. I believe it is a democratic challenge that Norway implements EU directives in a fast-track manner, including in the field of police and justice, without any real political influence on the content. According to the people, Norway can never become a major force in the EU, but I am convinced that no one better than us can take care of Norwegian interests when new policies are on the board in the EU. I am undisputed enough to believe that Norway, by virtue of its world-leading competence in different disciplines, will be able to build alliances that can influence EU policies in our direction. The debated Data Storage Directive is a good example of a case in which Norwegian traditional emphasis on privacy considerations must have been a lack of dimension in its preparation. Judicial and police cooperation in the EU has increased in importance and has evolved from informal cooperation to a treaty, intergovernmental cooperation with key areas under supranational authority. Our European neighbours are among our most important partners. Then it is unfortunate that Norway has to rely on back-up solutions in order to join the good company. The special agreement with Europol and the link to Schengen cooperation is good and good, but - and it is a big one but here - we have no direct influence on the further development of the legal and regulatory framework in these areas. The Prüm Treaty is the last shot at the EU judiciary and the stepping up of police cooperation in the European Union. From the Norwegian side, it will be very problematic if our police stay on the outside. The relationship Norway may have with the Prüm cooperation is currently unclear. A wide range of Justice Ministers have tried, irrespective of party associations and the EU position, to teach to the EU with a view to ensuring Norwegian police and judicial authorities access to relevant EU cooperation bodies in order to ensure that Norway is best equipped to cope with heavy crime. It is a dream, but consider whether the same Justice Ministers would take the consequences of their EU dialogue as ministers and start their own yes campaign for membership and full Norwegian participation when the future police cooperation and anti-crime strategy in Europe are designed by the European Union.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e910	On 17 January this year, there was a broad agreement in Stortinget on climate policy. There was agreement that in 2009 5 pst. motor vehicle traffic is on biofuels. Today, three months later, we are facing a threatening famine because the transition to biofuels is one of the reasons why the price of food is increasing dramatically. This is an example of how our national political ambitions must increasingly relate to developments that spring out of international conditions. This concerns today's major, common challenges such as climate change, poverty reduction and the threat of terrorism. But it also applies to close relationships such as the interest rate on our mortgages, the safety at and for the workplace or safe toys for our children. It is soon not one area in which we can claim with particular credibility that all power is gathered in this room. Common to more and more of our major challenges is that they require more cooperation and more committed cooperation between countries. It is here in Europe that we have come most in such close and committed cooperation, with the EU as the institutional framework. Since choosing the EEA in 1994, we have joined each and every time EU countries have expanded and deepened their cooperation in new areas. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed in his statement, it is a broad spectrum of our cooperation with the EU that rarely emerges. This cooperation is so extensive that we are more integrated into EU cooperation than is the case in the United Kingdom. Once we've connected to the many forms and bodies of cooperation, of course, it's because we see ourselves earning it. It gives us access to resources and networks that better enable us to meet our own political ambitions in these areas. That is why we are working so actively to involve the EU in the northern regions. If we are to succeed in a sustainable policy that embraces energy, fish, climate and security policies in this vulnerable and sensitive area, opportunities will be reduced if we have to stand alone. In such a perspective, building up cooperation with the EU in order to discharge the obligations it also creates would weaken the possibilities for reaching the Government's ambitions in this area and a wide range of other areas. Binding international cooperation, of which we need more, demands that all countries are willing to state something of their self-confidence. The representative Breck considered that one of the reasons why there was a great deal of resistance to Norwegian EU membership is that some examples of making provisions in Brussels restrict our freedom of action. That's absolutely right. At the same time, he was very pleased to see our view of brominated flame retardants in the European Court of Justice. Yes, we can enjoy that, but that impact has limited the right of self-determination of other countries - and so is international cooperation. We cannot participate in the European football championship and demand that the off-site rule does not apply to Norway. The Treaty of Lisbon provides the basis for further expansion and deepening cooperation between EU countries. Cooperation will take new forms and probably embrace more across. The development of climate and energy policies and a maritime policy are two such examples. In the EFTA-EU Joint Parliamentary Committee, we have discussed the EEA Agreement in the light of developments in EU cooperation since 1994 and the changes on the basis of which the Treaty of Lisbon is based. In particular, the greater role and increased influence of the European Parliament becomes challenging, a body that does not provide formal access to the EEA Agreement. At our meeting in Iceland next week, we will discuss this further in the Joint Parliamentary Committee and will probably gather to ask governments to develop a legal and political analysis of the impact the Treaty of Lisbon could have on the functioning of the EEA Agreement - that is, to analyse the changes that are taking place in the territory into which we are going to go. With regard to the functioning of an evaluation of the EEA Agreement, the annual reports of the EEA Committee and of the EFTA-EU Joint Parliamentary Committee shall be carried out each year. We're also going to review such a report at our meeting in Iceland this week. There is one point that is easily overlooked in the debate on the EEA Agreement. When EU countries develop a common policy across borders, there may be a discussion of what should be in the EEA Agreement and what should be outside it. Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway may have different interests here. They had when it came to the ETS Directive, and it took another year because of that. This can also be a problem, which makes it clear that we have made ourselves dependent not only on our 27 neighbouring countries in Europe, but also on our two partners in the EFTA context, in order to achieve our ambitions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e945	The Progress Party is in favour of the development that has taken place in recent years by bringing European countries closer together to a much greater extent by reducing barriers between countries. We are followers of globalisation and believe that globalisation is a good thing for all countries, because it provides opportunities for all countries to base their economies on their comparative advantage. However, there is no doubt that globalization and development in the world are leading to a continuation of competition between the different countries. Norway and Europe have some competitive advantages and some competitive disadvantages in international competition. A challenge for most European countries in the future is linked, inter alia, to: age composition and that in a few years’ time the ageing wave will hit much harder in Europe than in, for example, The United States and the Asian countries. We have a higher average age in Europe and fewer children are born than in our competitors. This enables us to experience shortages of labour in the future. In addition, in Europe, and especially in Norway, we have a high level of costs, which makes it difficult for us to compete exclusively on price. In summary, this means that in Europe it is not appropriate to compete on labour-intensive products, i.e. products that require many hands. Where am I going? Yes, I want to go to research and innovation development. What Norway and Europe will largely live on in the future is actually human capital. It said that knowledge is our most important resource and learning the most important process in a globalised economy like ours. Such processes are carried out at universities, colleges, companies and research institutions. However, it is important that we set aside enough time and resources for such learning processes. Research is an instrument for achieving an objective of becoming more innovative, so that Norway, in cooperation with the EU, can be a leading region of the world economy when it comes to innovation. So a little closer, to Norway's relationship with the European Union, which is what we are really debating now. Our participation in the EEA Framework Programme for Research is valuable and rightly one of the pillars of enhanced European cooperation. But the Norwegian membership quota costs money. Then it is of great importance that we be able to create a soil for a mutual commitment to the areas in which we want to focus. Polar research, the svalbard area and marine research are such areas. We know that EU countries are increasingly developing closer cooperation, in fact closer than the original internal market. How are we going to secure our place in this system, and how far is the Government willing to go in negotiations just to achieve good results? This is one of the main questions we're asking ourselves. The government focused on exactly the same thing: how are we going to solve this? We also believe that it is of great strategic value to seek even stronger cooperation with our Nordic neighbours in research and innovation. In Sweden, there is a clear emphasis on the quality of research, especially where Swedish industry will be able to benefit from such a quality improvement. The Norwegian research community within the academy here in Norway should work much more closely to the needs of the industry in the future, as well as even more closely to foreign institutes and trade unions both within the EU and outside. In particular, the Progress Party has noted that synergies and complementarity between the Framework Programme and other EU programmes, including the new Competitiveness and Innovation Programme, the CIP, will be more developed, which is precisely in line with our wishes. Although Norway is involved in the EIT and ERA processes, it is important to deepen our cooperation with countries not covered by them. With regard to the Treaty of Lisbon, we see EU cooperation expanded and deepened in areas outside our agreements. This will require that we be flexible and adapt to avoid weakening Norway’s ability to get an impact on Norwegian interests and views. This is also in line with what the Council of State says. Furthermore, we see that the European Parliament will be given increased powers through the Treaty, which will further weaken our opportunities, as this is the institution with which we have few contact points. These will be the main challenges in the next few years, from our point of view. Unfortunately, in Norway in recent years the return of the Research Fund has been used to finance current expenditure, such as this Framework Programme. This goes beyond the Norwegian research effort by becoming very dependent on the EU Framework Programme setting priorities in line with Norwegian competitive advantage, Norwegian research environments and enterprise areas. The Progress Party is therefore fully aware that the funding of international research programmes and actions must not go beyond research and research efforts at home. Unfortunately, however, it seems that the Government's greatest breach of promises and the Soria Moria declaration's greatest bluff are just in research.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e971	The world's getting smaller. We travel more, the boundaries between countries are more open, and not least the Internet makes the world smaller. This gives us new challenges in combating crime. To combat crime, it is important that we cooperate with other countries. I want to focus on one of the international agreements on police cooperation in which the Government is negotiating to participate, namely the so-called Prüm Agreement. It was concluded in May 2005 between seven EU countries and subsequently a further nine Member States have declared that they will join, including Finland and Sweden. Under the German Presidency of the EU, it has been negotiated and agreed to transfer part of the rules of the Prüm Agreement to EU legislation. The cooperation provided by the Prüm Agreement clearly improves the possibilities for cross-border police cooperation in relation to today's opportunities. The agreement creates new framework conditions, both legal and technical, which improve and streamline the police’s efforts to prevent and investigate crime, including terrorism. A number of the opportunities that are created do not exist at all today. The arrangements that currently exist at Nordic level and via Interpol do not come up against what the Prüm agreement establishes. The absence of controls at the internal borders of the Schengen area calls for good police and prosecution cooperation in order to conduct an effective fight against crime. In summary, the Prüm Agreement contains rules for participating countries to have access to directly search each other’s DNA registers, fingerprints and car registers, as well as rules for joint police actions and the exchange of information in connection with major events and to prevent terrorism. The Prüm Agreement requires all participating countries to have a national DNA registry for investigation. No central base is created. Participating countries shall allow other participating countries in the investigation of criminal offences to apply directly in the register. The applicant will only be informed whether there is a matching DNA profile or not. If you get a hit, you have to contact the country in whose register you got a hit. It is this country’s national rules, including the general rules on legal aid, that will determine whether access to additional information can be granted. The Prüm Agreement lays down rules on the unsolicited exchange of personal information in order to prevent criminal offences and to maintain public order and security at major events, in particular sporting events and European summits. The exchange of information shall take place in accordance with the national rules of each supplying country. Today, the Schengen Agreement only provides for the exchange of information for the prevention and investigation of criminal offences, not for the maintenance of the order and security of major events. However, in the Nordic police cooperation it follows from the police cooperation agreement that information can also be exchanged in order to protect the general order and order. Prevention is strengthened by the Prüm Agreement. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of international police cooperation to combat crime at home and outdoors. I would also like to stress that the Norwegian Government can do good things to combat international crime, among other things. through the action plan against trafficking in human beings, presented last year. We've supported Interpol's efforts to reveal the identity of children on videotapes who are being abused. We now adopted the law on genocide right after Christmas, and we have received in Stortinget a bill on the criminalisation of sex purchases, which is also a contribution to the fight against international crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e994	One of the main points of the Foreign Minister’s statement to the Stortinget on Tuesday is that the Treaty of Lisbon will lead to further integration between EU countries in areas outside our agreements with the EU. This presents challenges for Norway, of course. However, there is also reason to note that the EU is developing further towards transnational solutions that Norway, through its no-membership, has wanted to reserve itself against. The new EU Treaty will increase the use of qualified majority voting and strengthen the supranational decision-making systems. There will be more EU government and less national government. The EU wants to strengthen its global competitiveness through the Treaty of Lisbon. The open European labour market, of which we are also part under the EEA Agreement, is an important element in this ambition. And let it be said right away: few countries have benefited from this, like Norway. Our economic growth in recent years had not been possible without the availability of new labour from the new Eastern European Member States. But everything has its price. The EU has adopted various directives to regulate the free labour market and to prevent social dumping and undermining professional rights. Many people have doubts about how well the EU has managed to do this, following the decisions of the European Court of Justice in cases of conflict. The Court of Justice appears to find the basis of EU law for the primacy of the free movement of capital over the agreements underlying the regulation of the labour market in each country. It may also appear that, at present, the European Court of Justice operates the process of integration in the EU in the future as the European Parliament. The power of the Court of Justice is growing at the expense of the sovereignty of the EU countries and the power of the elected people. The free movement of labour was the theme of a Nordic-Baltic seminar I attended earlier this week. Both Nordic and Baltic experiences of a common labour market were shown. For our part, labour mobility, as I mentioned instead, has contributed to a higher growth and a smaller increase in prices, costs and interest rates than would otherwise have been possible in a period of long-term economic recession. For the unemployed in the Baltic countries, it has provided opportunities for work and income in order to support their families, but it has also led to skilled workers reaching low-skilled jobs. We often talk about countering brain drains, but according to a Fafo report presented at this conference, the concept of brain-washes could be equally topical and equally comprehensive for the situation that emerges from the labour market situation we have established in Europe. In addition, in the Baltic countries, labour emigration has been so strong that it has made the lack of access to skills and labour a central barrier to continued economic development. The Fafo report also shows that labour mobility, especially in the service market, has led to a growth in the number of low-paid jobs and the emergence of new dividing lines in the labour market. Immigrant labour, particularly in the context of occupational mobility, is at the bottom of the labour market. In relation to this situation, there are grounds for regretting the effects of some ECJ judges in their efforts to ensure the protection of migrant workers by the social security network represented by the national agreements between employers and employees. I am not going to go into the individual judgments - it has been done before today - but for most people, the Swedish Vaxholm/Laval case, the Viking Line case and the Rüffert case will be known. I have registered that these matters have been discussed earlier in the debate, including the issue of ILO Convention No. 94, which states that public works contracts may require wage and working conditions which are in conformity with the applicable collective bargaining agreement, are contrary to Union law. The ILO Convention has been ratified by Norway and is now applicable to the municipal sector alongside the State sector. It is in this light that I am pleased that the Minister of Foreign Affairs appears in his statement to suggest that the Government's work on the Services Directive is to be done with thoroughness, and that the best possible decision-making basis is given greater emphasis than to rush the matter through. I know that reference is made to the fact that the Posting of Workers Directive ensures workers from service providers against social dumping, but precisely in this area, the rulings of the Court of Justice of the European Union have recently provided a basis for doubt and the need for more thorough Norwegian assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e1016	I am one of those who believe that the EEA Agreement continues to provide a good basis for our relationship with the EU, and I am pleased that cooperation now also covers areas which are strictly not within the EEA Agreement but which nevertheless have a significant impact both on the EU and Norway. It is in many ways a paradox that fisheries cooperation between the EU countries and Norway continues to widen and that the EU obviously draws inspiration from Norway when it develops its new fisheries policy. Knowing that fisheries policy was the main reason why the coastal population in Norway said a massive no to EU membership in the referendums both in 1973 and 1994, it is ironic that the EU is today the second most important market for Norwegian seafood products and that the EU is a powerful federal trap in the fight against illegal, unregistered and unreported fisheries. By the way, it was supposed to be missing. But there is reason to stress, because someone here at home seems to think otherwise, that the alternative to the binding fisheries agreements we have with the EU - and with other countries - is short-term overfishing, destroyed resource base and lawlessness. For a small country such as Norway, internationally committed agreements are the cornerstone of sustainable resource management. That is why it is so important that we continue this cooperation. In a few days' time, the size will deal with the marine resource law, a completely new law dealing with wild marine organisms. A key point in the new law is what is called bioprospecting, that is, looking for natural substances in genetic material in order to exploit this commercially. Here the cancer riddle might be able to find its solution. New medicines can be found here. It is very important that an international regime regulates the extraction of marine genetic resources, and the majority of the Business Committee, all except the members of the Progress Party, of course, ask the Government to follow up this groundbreaking work so that Norway contributes to the establishment of international agreements in line with the administrative principles of the Marine Resource Act. And the EU could be a good start. I have noticed that the European Parliament's Fisheries Committee visits Norway at the end of May and the beginning of June, namely North Norway and Tøndelag. Apart from stressing the growing interest of the EU in Norwegian fisheries policy, it is also an expression of the growing importance of Parliament in the EU decision-making system. I fully agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs when he points out in his statement that the Treaty of Lisbon increases the powers of the European Parliament both as legislator and in the development of the Union's common policies. I also agree that it is a challenge for us as parliamentarians, because it gives us new opportunities to exercise influence. The Minister for Foreign Affairs notes that Parliament is the EU institution with which we have the worst contact. And let me add: it's not the fault of the European Parliament. Like several of the other speakers in today's debate, I am surprised that the Presidency of the Grand Duchy has still not responded to the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee to establish our own representation in the European Parliament. Indeed, the Stortinget has so far strengthened the ability of the party groups to maintain contact with their respective party groups in the EU Parliament, while the Stortinget has strengthened its own EU/EEA administration. However, I think it is remarkable that the Storting has so far not taken advantage of the possibility that the European Parliament itself has opened up to us and that, in my view, is a necessary prerequisite for the work of the Storting and the EU of the party groups. Just because we're a "outside" country, and I'm not one of those who's ashamed of it, it's twice as important that we exert influence on the EU's decision-making system where we can. In some areas, Norway is actually a major act. It concerns fish, energy, and maritime policy. That's where we'll be listened to. But also in other areas, where we don't necessarily have traditional or natural assumptions, we're being heard. Such an area is space policy, where Norway, against all odds, exerts considerable influence, simply by virtue of our competence. Our participation in EU space programmes is the basis for a billion-dollar industry in which each krona we invest gives five-fold more.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e1033	An important rule of law is that everyone is innocent until the opposite is proven. The opposite is the total monitoring. There are few examples of society’s sacrificing freedom and gaining security. There are many more examples of the opposite. At the same time, we need to develop a policy that best looks after people's security in an increasingly borderless value, where there have been more possibilities for carrying out cross-border crime. The terrorist attack in the United States in 2001, in Madrid in 2004, and in London in 2005 revealed our vulnerability. The focus on the cross-border fight against crime and new anti-terrorism tools is on American and European policies. For the ordinary citizen, much more control at airports would be the most visible outcome. The protests in connection with the proposal for the screening of all passengers also show that there is a limit to when we feel our integrity threatened. We should and must have social security in focus, but developments show that there is a need for increased awareness of the rise in the border between the necessary control and inappropriate privacy violations. The EU Data Storage Directive is a set of requests for control and requires all countries to store information about who you are talking to, who you are sending mail to, and where you are when you are doing it. The minimum requirement is for the information to be stored for six months, a maximum of two years. The information to be used by the administrative authorities in the event of serious crime is referred to in the text of the Directive. This monitoring of all citizens is based on the EU declaration of condemnation of the terrorist attack in London, which states that ‘common measures on the storage of telecommunications data are necessary as soon as possible’. The Data Storage Directive is the result of Tony Blair and the United Kingdom's need to act after the terrorist attack, and it is possible to understand - just as one can understand the reaction of the United States after 11 September, even if one does not want to introduce the US terrorist laws in Norway. On the other hand, what is not possible for me to understand is that the Data Storage Directive establishes the rules of competition for the internal market and is therefore relevant to the EEA. I am therefore very pleased that the Ministry of Transport has seen this done. It should be a national responsibility to develop a policy that balances the objective of fighting crime and upholding people’s legal security and privacy. We need to ensure Norway's ability to take an independent position on what some measures we in Norway feel it is necessary to take action, and what we do not think is necessary. At the time of the conclusion of international cooperation, we also need to know how the information is intended to be used across borders. For me, it's e.g. at the most unclear level in the text of the Directive how one has intended to deal with cases where the powers of the two countries differ in their definitions of serious crime. I have not registered that the data storage rules have been a population requirement in Norway. On the contrary, we now experience daily requests with well-founded resistance to what many perceive as a shift in the balance between research and monitoring. This is not a response to a national need, but the result of heavy European players winning in Brussels. It's easy to resort to methods that don't belong in a liberal legal state. In Norway, we've seen it before, for example. in the fight against child pornography, where Norwegian politicians have proposed a fixed IP address as a tool to track all traffic on the Internet. Others have characterized this as a totalitarian regime paradise. Even when it comes to our desire to fight terrorism and other cross-border crime, we must always ask ourselves whether what we achieve is proportionate to what we sacrifice. I therefore believe that the Department of Transport’s outsourcing of EEA relevance is very important and can guarantee national power to take a stand on the content of the Data Storage Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e1054	Under the Norwegian Constitution, foreign policy is the king's responsibility. For Storting's intervention in foreign policy, it is a major step forward that we have received the regular presentations by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on behalf of the Government on Norway's relationship with Europe. In addition to the general debate on foreign policy, it signifies that we receive such a regular presentation of euro policy, Europe’s importance for Norway. It is true that the vast majority of foreign policy challenges we face relate to our neighbourhood to other countries in Europe, as well as to the fact that very many of the global challenges are such that Norway’s policy will depend to a very large extent on the policies developed by EU cooperation. Therefore, this reflects the weight and importance of Norway’s relationship with Europe in a comprehensive way. The problem with the EEA Agreement is that it was designed for a time-limited purpose in its time. It is possible to use a picture: it was intended as a waiting room for European countries that had been involved in EFTA cooperation and which, for various reasons, needed longer contemplation time before joining EU cooperation. That was how Jacques Delors and Gro Harlem Brundtland, among others. they then modelled the EEA Agreement. Then there has been a relatively long waiting room, and although waiting rooms in and separately can be decorated and made pleasant, they have never been made for the purpose that someone should stay there permanently. There will be extra paradoxical when the simultaneous state by state by state in a short time passes by, without stopping in the waiting room at all. In that case, the lives of the three remaining countries in some contexts become a bit stunned. Should that situation arise that one or more of the three find reason to leave the waiting room and go into the consultation room, it is easy to imagine that the stay in the waiting room will be even more boisterous. I perceive the Foreign Minister's presentation this time so that he has wanted to make Stortinget aware of this fundamental structural problem. There are many individual and individual issues related to Norway’s current form of EU membership, but the individual issues can in most cases be resolved. The structural problem is that this cooperation is much more than the sum of the individual issues. This cooperation has a built-in dynamic that has become more and more clear every year that has passed. As more and more Member States in the eastern half of Europe have joined the cooperation, this dynamic has become clearer and clearer. It has also become clearer and clearer that EU cooperation is moving towards a democratisation process, where the influence of the European Parliament is increasing, and where it is likely that more and more areas are moving towards normal majority decisions after normal democratic treatment. If that is the case, the Minister for Foreign Affairs is quite obviously right when he points out that this makes our form of association more and more demanding - as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said. That is, it creates a problem that we can well run after and deal with individual cases with ever-increasing improvisations, but we will never interfere with the dynamics of the European integration process. I think it is commendable that the Minister for Foreign Affairs uses this statement to draw attention to this longer-term perspective, and not just to the current individual issues. It is part of the Norwegian debate that an investigation of alternatives to the EEA Agreement should be carried out. The motives behind such a wish are somewhat complex, but I perceive the Foreign Minister that his statement was really meant to be this investigation, and that it has a quite unambiguous conclusion: there are two options, either to stay in the waiting room, or to go in.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e1069	Today's research is tomorrow's solutions. Knowledge and research are areas where Norway must assert itself in the future - that is what we should live on - while in this area we are dependent on cooperation with others. The reason why I take the floor in this debate is that as a member of the Church, Education and Research Committee, I am very happy that the Minister of Foreign Affairs chose to spend as much time on research and research cooperation as he did in his presentation. Because there is considerable cooperation and a policy overlap between Norway and the EU. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out, research cooperation between Norway and the EU goes back more than 20 years in time, and the research programme is by no means the largest EU programme in which we participate. Regardless of what the different parties here in Stortinget think about the relationship between Norway and the EU, I think most people are concerned with the good research cooperation we have. We share many of the same research policy objectives and priorities in terms of environment, climate and energy. These are issues that do not know national borders; therefore, research should not do so either - research that is crucial to shaping a more sustainable society for the future in a field where Norway has a high level of competence and great opportunities to contribute. In addition, we in Norway have a clearer focus on marine and maritime research, where we can and must play an active role. Looking at the last two framework programmes in which we have participated, these must be described as a success. Norwegian researchers have contributed significantly, and both Norway as a nation and the Norwegian research community have recovered a lot in terms of qualitatively good and relevant research. So we can say that we've got what we've incorporated into these programs. Norway is now participating in the Seventh Framework Programme for Research. The Framework Programme gives us exciting and interesting opportunities to focus our strong areas, the environment and climate, marine and maritime research, and I share in particular the focus of the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the North and Svalbard regions in general. We know that the greatest consequences of climate change will come to light. The northern regions, and Svalbard in particular, make us here a starting point for research that we have to make use of. I am pleased that Norway has now put this on the agenda, both through the research programme and as a proposal in the development of the roadmap for research infrastructures. The Seventh Framework Programme offers us good opportunities to put our strong research areas on the agenda, but it also raises new issues that we need to address. The new framework programme is significantly larger than the previous programmes. One challenge we need to address is to ensure that the sectors are given the capacity to increase the effort corresponding to our quota payment to the programme. Another challenge is that there is now a stronger integration in the development of research programmes. The question is whether the Norwegian operators are adequately involved in the work. It must be important to ensure that Norwegian actors are actively involved in the development and that Norwegian research communities take responsibility in the areas where we want to have a leadership role, and in those areas where we have a strength, such as the environment, climate and the north. We have the possibilities, but we have to take care of them and develop them further if we still want a strong position. In the case of access to researchers, reference may be made to the notification of scientific recruitment by the Ministry of Knowledge in a short time. It will be important for us to ensure access to researchers in Norway, and I look forward to the treatment of that message. If one is to make a final point in research, it must be that we have to make sure that the Norwegian university communities get more involved. The institute sector is doing the best while universities have the most to do in terms of research cooperation. Universities have a potential, and we need to stimulate them to exploit this potential even better. Finally, I want to get into another area, which has nothing to do with research cooperation. The Minister of Foreign Affairs outlined the work of the Government on the Services Directive and referred to the investigations carried out. Several authorities have pointed out that some uncertainties remain related to the public service relevance of the Services Directive, such as: education. For me, these important questions are to be answered, and I hope and believe that when the government has reviewed the investigations, a clear answer will be given. We in the government parties are engaged in strong and good public services, and I assume that the government is carefully assessing these issues in its work on the Services Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e1095	I would also like to thank the Foreign Minister for a good, descriptive and sober presentation. The EU is constantly developing - geographically, politically and in the way it works. The extent of cooperation in the EU is increasing and deepening. Norway is becoming increasingly integrated into EU cooperation. The EEA Agreement is automatically developed in line with EU processes. In addition, we are involved in and include the EU's judicial and police cooperation, the Schengen Agreement. We are also strongly integrated into the EU’s defence and security policies. Decisions in the EU have a framework for and influence decisions in this Chamber almost every day. The Treaty of Lisbon intends to strengthen the role of the European Parliament and the national parliaments should also be given greater importance. That this poses new challenges for Norway is no exaggeration - on the contrary. Norway may be increasingly marginalised in relation to the decisions taken in the EU system and the way these decisions are taken. In particular, in this House, we should be concerned about the role of our Parliament. We have had judgments in Norwegian law where the Norwegian State has been convicted because Stortinget has not adapted Norwegian law to EU law. In the so-called Finnanger judgment, the Supreme Court has held that when there is a conflict between Norwegian and EU law, EU law is applicable. In other words, the Law attached to the Storing is set aside by decisions taken in forums where Norway is not included. For me, this is a great paradox, one of many paradoxes in Norway's relationship with the EU, and it is surprising that it has not led to a major debate. A comfort then might be that this is a situation that we have chosen ourselves. On Monday there was an opinion polling in the Official Journal of the Bergen, which shows that the EEA Agreement has reached a great deal of conclusion. Of course, it is positive, and it is probably an expression that the EEA Agreement works well. He solves the day-to-day challenges. The EEA Agreement guarantees Norwegian residents and Norwegian companies the same rights as they have in our neighbouring country. For me, however, it is a paradox that the Norwegian people support the content, the technical and legal part of an EU membership, but at the same time say no to the political part. So one says yes to the impact of EU membership, but no to the decision-making processes. My Swedish colleague, the leader of the Swedish Foreign Affairs Committee, Göran Lennmarker, usually calls Norway the non-voting member, and in my view he has a good point. In my view, the EEA Agreement has a major democratic deficit. Unfortunately, there is nothing today that indicates that our relationship with the EU will change with the first. That's why we have to always think about the possibilities that exist in our relationship form, and whether we make good use of them. We now have a more active European policy. The Foreign Minister's statement and the debate today are an example of this. The size has, as many have been in the past, upgraded their work on EEA matters. However, with the changes now taking place in the EU - especially in view of the role of the national parliament - I do not believe that the Stortinget has found the ultimate model. It is important that we are streamlined in our way of working with EU/EEA matters. When we see how the European committees work in our neighbouring countries, we see that the Norwegian European Committee is short. In particular, the level of written and other communication between the Councils and Parliament is very different in the way we work. The members of the European Union in the Nordic region also have their own staff in Brussels who work for the parliaments and who are in favour of them being upgraded at any given time. I think we have a lot to learn from our Nordic EU neighbours in the way of working with EU/EEA matters. The European Parliament will become increasingly important. It also has to be important for the way we in Stortinget work on these questions. In the Labour Party, we have taken this development seriously. We have therefore established a much closer cooperation with our sister party in the EU, PES, and are now participating in many meetings there to build networks and disseminate knowledge, thus laying the basis for influence on important political decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e1121	The Minister for Foreign Affairs reflects in his statement on developments in Europe. However, the speech bears the mark of many honours of cooperation, with no clear focus on areas where we are charged with a policy that in many cases is contrary to the will of the people at home. Even more importantly, he does not give us a thorough introduction to the major changes in the EU to be completed by the end of the year. The major reform of the EU this year is the attempt to establish a federal constitution that will provide the basis for a major act in Europe following the model of the United States. The EU misrepresents the project by calling it a treaty, while the reality is a constitution. I would like the Foreign Minister to take the time to explain to us what is the difference between a treaty and a constitution. Such clarification is of the utmost importance for the further EU debate. One of the paragraphs says that the EU should be a legal person of international importance, i.e. a state formation which assumes even more tasks from the EU countries and places them under the Federal Governing Body, the President, the Commission, Parliament and the Council of Ministers. The Minister of Foreign Affairs may reject the fact that the EU is building up systematically and gradually to a federal state formation. Let me ask: is it common for international organisations to have president, foreign minister, parliament, national anthem, national flag, their own budget and direct tax plans, build their own military power and diplomatic corps to represent the federal state, and have their own political programmes in almost all areas? There are bans on referendums in the 27 countries. Only Ireland must have a referendum because of its own constitutional provisions. This is an undemocratic overrun of people in Europe, where we remember that France and the Netherlands said no to the EU Constitution. The EU does not want a popular debate or interference to get its federal project in place. I remember one of the EU's fathers, Jean Monnet, saying in 1954: now it's about getting a federal state in place in Europe, and it might have to happen quickly, so people don't understand what's going on. A few months ago, at a conference in the European Movement, the Foreign Minister could tell us that he paid his quota to the Federation's fighting organisation, the European Movement. I have registered that the Norwegian department no longer has a federal purpose paragraph, but it has the main organisation in Brussels. This cannot be understood as different from the fact that the Foreign Minister personally believes that the EU should become a federal power and that Norway should thus become a state in the EU. It would have been clarifying and exemplary if the Minister of Foreign Affairs had not followed in the footsteps of the EU by misrepresenting the federal project. The government should also be a public informer and give us an introduction to the major upheavals in the EU, where the Union goes from being a supranational organisation to becoming a federal state formation. Since strong political forces continue to work for Union membership of Norway, a new level of debate is needed, which requires a great deal of facts to be seen. This is essential as public information in order for Norwegian citizens to be able to take a position - yes or no to Union membership. Otherwise, I heard with interest from the representative, who characterised the EEA agreement as a waiting room. No to the EU's legendary leader in his time, Kristen Nygaard, characterised the EEA Agreement - more precisely - as a housekeeper's agreement. What is interesting to hear, however, is that the representative now says that our form of association is becoming more and more demanding. I fully agree with this long-term perspective. However, it becomes a problem when the representative on the pay side says that the discussion that has been carried out here by the Council of State is a discussion of alternatives to what is becoming more and more demanding, namely an EEA agreement versus membership, and where he ends up that the election is still waiting or Union membership. Of course, there are several alternatives. The representative also knows the payroll. In recent months, we have seen a number of serious attacks on professional rights from the European Court of Justice, contrary to the ILO rules on collective bargaining and collective collective bargaining agreements. The European Court of Justice claims that these fundamental professional rights are contrary to EU competition rules and the four freedoms of the Treaty of Rome. It's important how the Government now wants to deal with this. And it is important that the Minister of Foreign Affairs explains to the trade union movement that there are no alternatives to this policy if one is in favour of EU membership. It's in the logic of the whole system. Furthermore, the EU Services Directive is very central, and it is central to a thorough clarification of how the Government will address the challenges of the EU Services Directive in the near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e1142	The size is not a debate club to argue for individual vision. That's the place government meets big. So when I'm here, I've explained on behalf of a government as a whole. I've heard that many, from different teams, believe that this statement gave an illumination of many different themes. The representative, Lundtigen, I think he's a fogger. It's got to be his assessment, which I'm gonna have to respect. The difference between the treaty and the constitution - three minutes is not enough time to elaborate it. My simple version would be to say that all EU countries have a constitution, the EU has a treaty. I would also like to make it clear that it is simply not my job here to argue about how the EU has developed its cooperation. This role has been abandoned by Norway. But at least it is my clear belief that this is a cooperation driven by the countries that are members. So there is no authority outside the countries that define how the Treaty develops. It's the countries that come together and do it. Is it common what we see developing? No, it is most unusual, and there is no other international cooperation similar to what the EU is doing. So we can have different opinions about which way this is going. I would like to thank you for a good debate. I think it has been good speeches, and I would particularly like to commend the fact that there have been members from various committees who have set up. Some of the purpose of the statement was to cover several fields. A few comments here: The representative of Solvik-Olsen raised the question of free allowances. It's our goal to have the greatest possible parallelity in the arrangement we now have. So we have fewer free quotas than the norm in the European Union. Now we are linked to this in an agreement, in a directive, and we have come to understand our perspective. I think our goal should be the greatest possible degree of parallelity, but this is going to go to 2012, and we'll see how it's going to develop. As far as biofuels are concerned, this is a question that is clearly going to be debated, with new knowledge that is now coming up. That debate may also take an active part in Norway. The representative of Aspaker was involved in judicial cooperation. I can only confirm that the Minister of Justice we have today is very active in developing the opportunities we have for participation in judicial cooperation. He heads the Schengen cooperation, and we are actively working to safeguard Norway's interests following the Prüm cooperation. So it was the representative of Gullvåg, who was concerned with the northern regions and the Arctic bioprospection. Let me say that the entire Arctic perspective in relation to Russia is a major theme for me in the foreign policy statement on 20 May. And then you can take different considerations around Inge's salary reflections around the waiting room and the next stage, which for him was the consultation. That gives us a medical perspective on where we're going. I think the reason Norway is still waiting is that the service there is acceptable, that people thrive there and maybe not yet want to go in and take the consultation that's in the playroom -- this last one wasn't seriously meant, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e1166	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e1174	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24.ana.ud957e1183	The President proposes that, during the current six-month period, the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs at the Storting meeting on 22 April 2008 on important EU and EEA matters be annexed to the Protocol. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
