ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e58	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meeting today - and consider it adopted. The President will propose Solvency Horne and Kenneth Svendsen. Other proposals are not available, and Solvency Horne and Kenneth Svendsen are unanimously elected as chairmen of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e65	The representative, Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e68	On behalf of the big business representatives Øyvind Korsberg, Kåre Fostervold and myself, I am delighted to propose measures to reduce agricultural bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e73	The representative Jørund Rytman will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e76	On behalf of Tord Lien and myself, I would like to suggest that the voluntary protection proposal be used as a basis for the completion of Trillemarka and Rollagsberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e81	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The President will draw attention to the fact that voting as usual will take place at the end of the meeting, when matters have been debated. It's all about things on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e96	This case concerns proposals for the repeal of Section 107 of the Basic Law. [[The law of the nobles and of the aces must not be repealed]] ‘The seat may not be revoked. The detailed conditions under which, for the greatest benefit of the State and the Governor of the Landalmue, it shall continue to be determined by the Stortinge". Alternatively, Section 107 is proposed to be repealed. In the government-appointed Odelslovkommission, NOU 2003:26, there was a minority in favour of repealing the Odelslovkommission. The proposers in the two constitutional cases we are dealing with today are largely based on the arguments of this minority. It was claimed, among other things, that: from the minority that it is unnatural for us in today's society to have legislation that gives individuals a preference to take over property because of kinship. Furthermore, it is noted that it is not appropriate for the owner of a property not to have the freedom to sell the property to whom he wishes, nor does it require professional qualifications to be decisive for who is to be able to acquire the property. The minority believe that the parent institution makes it difficult for newcomers to establish themselves in the agricultural industry even if they have the necessary professional qualifications, interest in the trade and industry and capital to purchase a property. It is claimed that with today’s no partial legislation it is practically impossible to obtain an agricultural property in the free market. I expect the minority itself to promote its proposals according to the vote. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Progressive Party, in the position of the majority of the Odelslovak Committee, in which the following main arguments in favour of the odelsrecht have been put forward as follows: Court of First Instance gives a better agricultural farmer that the holder is self-reliancer of proper property structure contributors to the maintenance of district housing, with local ownership of agricultural property contributing to gender equality It is also important to stress that the majority in the Odelslov Committee, consisting of Buttingsrud Mathiesen, Hersleth Holsen, Indgjerd Værdal, Kveberg, Opdahl and Svastuen, also points out in their comments that they are aware that the noble law can have some undesirable effects. But the decisive thing, which is very clearly underlined by the majority of the Odel Law Committee, ‘is, however, that the odelslaw undoubtedly produces more and more societally beneficial effects than disadvantages. In particular, reference is made to the socio-cultural values in relation to the attitudes and long-term objectives of agricultural professionals, including in relation to the issue of equality and better farming. Furthermore, the majority of the Committee would point out that the adverse effects of the law of nobility, as it appears today, will be significantly reduced by the changes proposed by the Committee. Another important aspect of the majority is that the Odel Act contributes to the preservation of social values in a way that is predictable for agricultural professionals and is not subject to ever-changing changes, such as the concession law in recent years. There is also reason to point out that the odel law is elastic in the sense that it preserves the socially desired effects on’ — what is claimed to be — ‘legal areas. The majority consider that, in the future, the law of no partiality will continue to be an important instrument for ensuring long-term and stability in industry, as well as contributing to the desired effects of society. The majority would like the right to vote to stand as a candidate.The majority of the committee would otherwise point out that the right to vote today has a limited impact on changes in the ownership of agriculture. With regard to the importance of the right of residence in the event of the revocation of the right of nobility, the majority of the observations made under point 12.4 refer in particular to the inheritance situation. If the right to vote was to be removed, this meaning would be further reduced by the fact that, in the case of normal generational shifts, the right to vote and to vote would no longer be possible. Further, in practice, properties of commercial importance in agriculture are not covered by the right of residence, since these properties are essentially transferred while the owner is still alive. [[before retirement]] It is primarily if the owner dies unexpectedly that the right of access is of importance». The majority of the Odelslaw Committee further points to the fact that the Odelslaw ensures stability in an industry that is otherwise exposed to external influences that act in the opposite direction. It should be noted that the Odelslaw contributes to the longer-term management of agricultural property by the fact that farmers see investments in a multi-generational perspective. At the same time, this majority believes that the Odel Act is important for the development of gender equality in agriculture and will continue to be important to ensure this. The centre party considers agriculture to be particularly important for employment, housing and culture in rural areas. Agriculture has one of the most complete value chains in business, from raw materials research to consumers. With its strong local foundation, agriculture shows traditions, innovation and care for soil and forest. Agriculture takes care of the cultural landscape. It is for the recreation of the inhabitants and the attraction of the tourism industry. Norwegian agriculture is the main task, however, of producing safe and clean food. This is a good thing for society. A viable Norway requires a viable agriculture. It involves agriculture where there is room for both small and large units, encouraging local diversity and creativity. The importance of agriculture for a living District Norway is great. It is therefore essential to ensure a varied use structure. The centre party will work for an agricultural sector with development potential, an agricultural sector where the total food resources in Norway are managed in a sensible and sustainable way, an agriculture where young people are dry and willing to invest, an agriculture where the environment and quality are central, an agriculture where the farmer is given greater freedom, and an agriculture where private property rights are respected. A central element to achieve this is the idea of keeping what is managed and, if possible, being left to the next generation in an even better constitution than before. The main elements of the Odel Act must be maintained and ensure that resources are managed in the long term. On this basis, I would recommend that the proposals put forward should not be accepted, which the majority of the Committee has also recommended.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e157	Let me first address the proposals in the vote promoted by the members of the Committee of the Progressive Party. It is a paradox when the previous speaker, the chairman of the Central Party, talks about the long-term objectives of Norwegian agriculture. Norwegian agriculture is full of long-term objectives. There is probably no industry in this country that has more long-term objectives than Norwegian agriculture has. Nevertheless, agriculture is developing completely contrary to the long-term objectives, and with the good ideas for which the Central Party in particular is to be an exponent in the field of agriculture. One of the long-term objectives of Norwegian agriculture is ownership. It's very important in Norway, and the Progress Party is the foremost exponent of ownership here in the country. The problem with the ownership of agriculture is that it has so many encumbrances that you can ask questions about whether it is a real property right. In agricultural properties, there is a price regulation, and it is a test of whether those who are to acquire an agricultural property are fit to acquire the property. You also have the headquarters, which is what this case is about. The Odel Institute has long traditions, but it's important for Stortinget to notice that the Odel Institute was introduced for a completely different time from the modern age we now live in. Agriculture has a completely different function in our society today than it had at the time of the exercise of the right to vote, and a few years ago there were certainly some points about it. But over the past 25 to 30 years, there have been extremely large changes in agriculture that require us to ask questions about whether there is still a practical institute to have. We agree that it should be possible for professionally qualified people to establish themselves in agriculture. However, it is impossible for a person who today leaves the agricultural school, who wants to invest in agriculture, and who has no own right or other opportunity to acquire agricultural property, to get an agricultural property on the market. As I said earlier, price regulation is also something that causes very few agricultural properties to enter the market. The Odel Institute also causes the properties to remain in the families. Even though you didn't have the Odel Institute, I think the relationship between parents and children would be able to be solved in a good way. It will be wrong when e.g. parents and children agree that the property should be sold out of the family, that a slightly more distant relative should then be able to come and take possession of the property. This often means that the property is not sold anyway. Is agriculture worth it? As an agricultural policy spokesperson in the Progress Party, I travel a lot around the countryside, and I now see that there is an increased understanding there because the right to vote is one of the elements that contributes to the problem of maintaining the settlement in a part of the village. In the fall I took part in a panel debate in Oppdal, and there it was clearly expressed by local nutritionists in agriculture and by leading politicians that Oppdal seemed negative. The opinion issued by the State Agriculture Administration in connection with the suspension of the Odelslovkommission - Staten Agriculture Management is precisely the body in this country which administers the concession rules, etc. in the case of agricultural property, it is worth noting. They have strong arguments for the abolition of the right to vote. Should we really achieve the long-term objectives, such as: The centre party has set itself up for agriculture - and the Progress Party hopes to achieve some of the long-term agricultural objectives - there is a need to do something about the agricultural legislation. The structure of agricultural property needs to be brought more into line with the structure of the ordinary property market, and then it will be a start to endorse this proposal by the representatives of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e176	The representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr has addressed the minority proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e179	This case concerns two constitutional proposals, as the case-speaker said, to repeal or amend the Constitutional Act § 107, which deals with the right of nobility and liability. These are proposals that the Labour Party does not support. After the economic fraction's assessments, it is important that we have a law for agricultural property that is part of, and that supports, our agricultural policy. We're going to have a different usage structure that will help create activity and build the whole country, and we're going to have to do something. support for traditional family usage. The Odel Act plays an important role in this context. There are many good reasons why we should maintain this law even in the future. However, I agree with others that there may be some unfortunate outcomes, but some disadvantages cannot justify the whole institute being lifted. It would, according to the Labour Party's assessment, have had very negative consequences for the agricultural industry and the construction in the District of Norway. The government now has a work in progress that aims to ensure that legislation and practice contribute to the better use of ownership resources than in the past for business and construction purposes. In this context, efforts are being made to adapt legislation to the government's objectives in agricultural policy. This is a very specific matter. to make the instruments of the law of the land, the law of the concession and the law of the land more targeted than today. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food also assesses whether mandatory decisions are sufficiently targeted. In this context, an assessment is made of how different instruments of ownership policy can be used to strengthen and maintain the construction. The Ministry also assesses Norwegian obligations decisions in the light of the European Court of Justice’s decision on obligations to provide services in Denmark. During the spring session, the Ministry will issue a hearing proposal on changes in the legislation on agricultural property, and we look forward to receiving new legislative proposals for treatment here in Stortinget during the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e190	This is not the place for a general agricultural debate. The issue under consideration is whether to amend an old constitutional provision on the law of nobility and liability, hereinafter referred to as the law of nobility, for all practical purposes. I do not overlook the fact that there may be arguments both for and against, but for a conservative it counts something that one thing has been for a while, that the provisions have long traditions, that the constitutional provisions have contributed to many self-owned farmers, whom we, as conservatives, greatly appreciate, and that it provides predictability for an industry and for a large population. So the question is, are the arguments against so strong that they speak for a change? So we don't think so. We want to maintain this provision, but nevertheless see what the minority points out - for that matter also other representatives of the majority - that agriculture is facing some new challenges that must require changes in other areas. It was probably a representative of the Progress Party who said that we are now living at a different time from when the Constitution was passed. There shouldn't be much disagreement in this room. However, it is true that some traditions - for the sake of family and heritage, which is an old tradition - are in a new era today, but old, good values that are surviving are characterized by the fact that they can be adapted to a new era. I also think that the traditions of agriculture can do that. At the same time, however, one must be willing to look at the housing regulations, at the concession laws, at price regulation, and not least at the selection of the provisions of the agricultural agreement which make agriculture a regulated industry. This makes it possible to do something about it, regardless of the constitutional provisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e199	The two proposals for repealing - alternatively, amendment - of the constitutional provision of Section 107, which deals with the right of nobility and liability, have been proposed by the majority of the Committee, all except the members of the Progress Party. From the Christian People's Party, I just want to say that we are satisfied with this. The President-in-Office of the Council, Lars Peder Breck, has explained well the background to the rejection, so we agree to that. As demonstrated by the suspension, the oeuvre underlines the close links between the genealogy and the practice of agriculture in Norway, which some others have also pointed out. We believe that this has had a positive impact by strengthening continuity and has contributed to the stability and predictability of practitioners in an industry that has otherwise been under pressure. Although, from time to time, there may still be a need to make adjustments to the odelinstitute - we all do - we still believe that the nodelsprinciple represents an important value that we want to hold on to. Adjustments in the law of nobility have been made, and it will still be fully possible to do – as others have pointed out – without touching the very principle enshrined in the Constitution. I therefore refer only to the majority comments on which the Christian People's Party is in the position.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e208	The rapporteur has made an excellent presentation of the majority's views, which my party too joins and stands behind. Odel law and the law as such have been an appropriate way through generations to organise the transfer of agricultural property in Norway and have contributed to the long-term and security of food and land, which means that we are behind this. In addition, of course, this can be made a long agricultural policy debate. But it is not added to it today. Today, it's the issue of the state of the art as such. As has been said, Lars Peder Breck, who is the rapporteur on the matter, has also explained the views of the SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e217	The Left supports the proposals to abolish the constitutional protection of the Supreme Court, cf. The Constitution § 107. The principle view of the left is that in a liberal state no positions shall be inherited. In addition, there are purely agricultural policy arguments. Today's odel law prevents many of the most motivated to live and live in and by the countryside. There are no farms or agricultural land to be bought. An estimated 80 pst. the agricultural properties, with cultivated land and large forest and open-air sections, are now unearthed. That is, by birth it is an increasingly narrow circle of people with a preference for these values. About 90 pst. of all agricultural property transfers occur within the family. In the view of the Left, this is a fundamental error, and it is a direct obstacle to recruiting motivated and innovative people for an industry that unfortunately is in many places confused by legislation that is not adapted to our time. It is probably easier for an African to stay in Norway than it is for an outside youth to fit into a Norwegian farm. For the left, the question is quite simply: does agriculture need restrictions, or does agriculture need young people who want to work? Norwegian agriculture is covered by a thick layer of tradition that counteracts change - on good and bad. It's no coincidence that only one in ten farms are run by women, even after a generation of gender-neutral odelslaw. Nor is it a coincidence that it is almost impossible to get a driveable farm without having the right genetic material in the cells. Time and again, we hear stories about how some distant relative reports, long after a buyer has settled on a farm. Nor is there any doubt that we have a lot of uses that have been removed and closed by virtue of the law of nobility. The Odel Act only guarantees the ownership of the genus. It doesn't ensure that people live and that use is driven. It is a law that safeguards personal interests before the interests of the community. It is quite obvious that the law must take a large part of the responsibility for that, for example. is more than 700 uses only in West Telemark without a permanent residence. Today, agriculture is a pressed industry in both economic and social terms, and there are a number of worrying aspects of an old law from childhood being brought up in a kind of notion that society is responsible for passing this on, regulated by a law. This represents a fundamental vision that has its anchoring at a different time both for agriculture as an industry and for the society we live today. The Odel Act is an old-fashioned way of arranging the acquisition of farms. Now we need to get motivated young people to Build-Norway. Then we must have a fundamental debate on the law of nobility, which is not just about placating in today's law on times and how many family members it covers, but about the law playing a desired role in modern society. In the view of the Left, it does not do so, especially because many of the so-called benefits, as the majority, who want to maintain current legislation, are in principle more accurate and can be achieved in a more systematic and effective way through other instruments of an economic and legal nature, such as: the law of concession. In addition, the rights of families can be guaranteed through the right of residence, which the Left will not change, by the possibility for life heirs to take over a farm at a reasonable price. This also means that there are no economic arguments for keeping the law of nobility. Nor is there any reason to believe that the consequences of removing the odels law would mean a dramatic change in Norwegian agricultural policy. It's just to look at our neighboring country Sweden and Denmark, who don't have the right to vote. Also, farms within the family are transferred almost as much as here, but there is a fundamental difference that preference is not regulated by a law. The paradox is that when someday the law of nobility is lifted -- because I think it will be -- the farmers will have the same rights as today. They've only got one more, the right to dispose of their property in the same way as all of us, and to decide for themselves who will take over the farm after them. For the Left is and shall be the Constitution a fundamental law. That's why today's vote is basically justified, based on our liberal fundamental view that no one through his birth or family relationship has a greater right to inherit positions than others. Finally, I will address the Left's proposal: ‘Document No. 12:6 Option 1 - acceptable.” [[right to vote and to stand]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e250	The representative Leif Helge Kongshaug has taken up the proposal he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e254	Throughout history and internationally, there have been different definitions of what agriculture is. This is also true in Norway. Some believe that agriculture is pure production. Others believe that agriculture is, in the deepest sense, the recovery of solar energy. And some simply believe that agriculture is the use of land. I am part of a tradition where agriculture is the use of land. It's the acquisition of solar energy in such a way that through it we produce food that is healthy and safe for us as human beings. We're at the top of the food chain, so that food is healthy, is a prerequisite for our own and our descendants' health. If a farm is to be used in the tradition of using land, you have to think in the long term. It's a biological production based on food soils, food soils that can't be produced artificially, food soils that it takes hundreds, even thousands of years to produce. To what extent we manage the food soil today is important to the next generation of users, and it's largely irreversible processes if we get pig-sucking into the food soil. Similarly, in forestry, what we harvest today is timber and timber, which is a key to our climate challenge, is what previous generations have sown, planted and cleared. It's just traveling around and seeing what's happened. Human tracks are based on improving growth potential, improving the conditions for long-term production. Very many of those who have stood for this have stood for it in a tradition in which they have had no economic return of it. They have found pleasure in doing so, because it has been a pleasure for them seagoing, but they have also known that through that work they have made a social effort. Or as the old rapporteur in the Ringebu working party said, one has felt that one has had the security of society. The Odel Act is an institution to ensure this long-term sustainability. The Odel Act has lived independently of political signals. There has been a law of private law, not subject to the changing mother of the Ministry of Agriculture as to what is the right way to farm. So the Odels Act is the long-term pillar, and what's the most long-term is also the one that over time is the most organic. Therefore, my claim is that the most organic law we have in Norwegian agriculture is the law of nodels. The Odel Act is an opportunity for the next generation, or for the generation that are the grandparents, to take over the property through an odel right. The odel circuit doesn't go any further. Those who say that the odel circuit is such that a distant relative can come in, talk at best towards better knowledge. The Odel Act is a law that is open to any citizen who wants to acquire agricultural property. During a 20-year period, any resident will be able to earn an odd right for the benefit of his or her family. So it's not a genetic law. It's a law that's open to everyone, assuming you've shot a farm in a 20-year perspective. Nice, you ask me! What is then essential is that - some people make this as if the law of nobility and nobility are freed from the obligations - the whole foundation of the law of nobility is in an interaction between nobility and nobility. It is a major challenge to ensure the obligations of the law of nobility when we are now in a recession in which the valuation of work related to land management is very low. Then the economic possibilities of having income from their work become weaker. Very many see in it that it becomes difficult to fulfil the obligation to drive. Furthermore, when the possibilities of living on these units, which have been reportedly spread over the whole country, are weakened by the fact that communications, jobs and opportunities in relation to young people’s wishes are being reduced, the possibilities of fulfilling the obligation to live are also reduced. That's why we have great challenges in facilitating communication and other relationships to continue to link ownership rights and property obligations, at least to the red-green parties. It's a tradition that the red-green parties have stood for all along, that you have obligations relating to ownership. Ownership shall not be an unlimited right to enforce the right to sit on a property regardless of the interests of society. Ownership is never unlimited. Property law is a result of popular decisions, where one balances private interests and the interests of society. Ingenious, ask me! Countries in Europe look to us in that tradition. Some of the reasons why we have a society with great egalitarian forces, for which we want further development, include: its basis for the smooth distribution of ownership of land and the equivalence of ownership of land with other professional groups. So they're not a subclass, as we've seen down in Europe. There is also one reason why there was a consensus that in Norway provision should be made for each person to own his own home. It's the same tradition. Odelsrecht is a right, it's not an absolute duty. If a nobleman does not want to take the duty, live on, i.e. be a «bond», a farmer, in practice, would disclaim the right to use the law of nobility, because the law of nobility is automatically connected with duties. It is therefore very gratifying to learn that the political leadership of the Ministry of Agriculture will now strengthen the duties of those to acquire property. Thus, it is those who are genuinely concerned about leading this tradition that I have now talked about, further on, that get to take over property. This will naturally lead to a good deal of nobles saying, "No, we're not interested in the duties." No, well, well. Fortunately, hundreds of young people are ready. Only in a village in Buskerud, in Sigdal -- I talked to the municipal administration there yesterday -- they said they had 10-20 families who were interested in taking over agricultural property if they had the opportunity. That tradition shall be the Centre Party to the degree of a champion in order to proceed. We are champions of a tradition where there is the right and duty of ownership. It is not a proprietary tradition in which there are proprietary unbundled obligations. It is not a proprietary tradition where it is to acquire best-paying property. That's what the parties Right and Advance Party have a long tradition for. Their view is that those who pay the best are those who have to own land. Then they will enforce the management of the areas as freely as possible from their own discretion, which will be much more short-sighted than the tradition I have now tried to describe. However, what is alarming in this matter is the position of the Left. Left, with Gunnar Knudsen and the tradition of the Left. It has been managed in such a way that the Left is the party that is now in the front to get rid of the Odelslaw. They will get rid of the law and talk about those who are going in, being motivated and innovative. So they don't belong in the nodelsrekka. Those who are in the noble race are not motivated and innovative, but they are the ones who come from outside! That's where you really have the genetic material on which it's to be put, as the representative from the left said here. They didn't have the right genetic material, the ones with the right to vote today. It's strong! It's a ham change in Left's policy that's very strong. There is talk here and reference to traditions in Denmark and Sweden. Yeah, look at Denmark. See how agriculture is run in Denmark. Look at the ecological consequences there. Look at the farmer's position in Denmark. I didn't think it was a model for mountain Norway. I would strongly recommend that the odelslaw and its rights and obligations exist. I am very pleased that we now have a political leadership in this country with an agricultural minister who strengthens the obligations of nobility. Then the odelslaw will stand still in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e286	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e289	I have not failed to notice that the representative from Buskerud is trying to turn himself into a spokesman for the agricultural industry here in Stortinget. In his post he says that from his own point of view the law is ingenious. The representative Lundtegen has now been an actor in the agricultural policy debate for quite many years. It must be the concern of the representative Lundteg that the development is in completely the opposite of that for which he has been a minister in these years. He himself has been an ardent agricultural candidate who has come out of the Agricultural College at Ås to start farming. How does Lundtigen think that agricultural candidates today who do not have the right to vote themselves will be able to establish themselves in the agricultural sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e298	Owning an agricultural property is a privilege, because it's hardly a good thing. It's a few properties. There won't be any more properties, but there will be more and more people, and so it becomes very demanding how we organize ownership for farming. What I said in my post is that in the time we are now in, where what the representative Kielland Asmyhr says, are university candidates and other interested young people who will take over property, we must, in order for these to take over, strengthen the duties of those who today have no right. If you don't fulfil the obligations, well, you're depriving yourself of your interest in taking over the property, and the property is free for those who want to continue working in that industry. I'm very much in favour of them letting go.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e305	The representative, Lundtigen, was concerned that we are not only talking about a right of nobility, but also about a duty of nobility. I agree with that. The question is what action will be taken in practice when obligations are not met. I'll show you, for example. to the Soil Act § 9, avhevdsparagrafen. We have a lot of land here in the country that is not kept in claim as it should, but how often are, for example, the highlight paragraph used? Would the representative Lundtigen be a driver to use it, and how should he do so? My claim is that unfortunately there are fewer and fewer cows in this country, but with the politics of the Center Party there are more and more holy churches. In my opinion, it is more important with cows producing milk than with the holy cows. So my question is, what action will Lundteg take to ensure that the obligations are met?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e316	There are two obligations relating to the right to vote: it is the obligation to live and it is the obligation to work. The housing obligation was fundamentally undermined under the previous government, with the government council Sponheim, the leader of the Left, by the fact that a middle bad lawyer could give advice on how to avoid fulfilling the housing obligation in practice. It was sad. It's now being corrected. That was point one. The obligation to drive, the obligation to operate, necessarily relates to the economy of operating the land, and the areas to which this refers that are not being operated are the less profitable areas. For this reason, it is also important that the Agriculture Councils address: strengthening grazing, strengthening the economy of grazing livestock species. That's where the possibilities lie. We are in the situation today that we don't even produce enough sheep meat in the grassland of Norway. The abstinence paragraph is linked to an improvement in the economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e323	I have to say that the statements made here by the representative Lundtegen are probably one of the most perceptive things I have heard from the Parliamentary Chair so far in this great period of time. I have so far understood the representative Lundtigen to be a spokesman for a strong private property right here in the country. But now he's saying that the central party in government is going to impose strict state demands on those who own agricultural property. If they do not comply, they shall lose the court. So I understand that they are going to lose the ownership of the agricultural property. It cannot be understood as anything other than that Lundtigen is now the subject of a state acquisition through claims against agricultural property that is not driven in the manner the Centerpartie wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e328	We are now in the legislative assembly that adopts laws, and we are talking here about laws relating to private property rights. So it's not just in our right, but it's in our duty to facilitate laws that govern property policy in the direction we want. What is at the heart of private property rights, and what has been in Norway, is that we have arranged the law relating to private property rights so that it has general disintegration in Norwegian society, both from those who own property, and from those who do not own property. Our proprietary tradition balances these interests in a good way. Therefore, it is only the connection of ownership obligations that guarantees private ownership over time. Here we have a advantage. Here we have a chance. Here we have something better than the other country has been able to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e335	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1719]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e352	The first speaker is Carl I. Hagen. Mr Hagen is speaking on behalf of the rapporteur, Mr Solholm.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e355	The proposals propose three amendments to the Constitution. For the first time, they include amendments to the second paragraph of Section 26 on procedures for the conclusion of treaties. Furthermore, it is proposed that Section 93, on the basis of the grounds of the waiver of sovereignty in a limited area to international organisations, be repealed, or an addendum to the provision so that the consent of the Storting to the waiver of sovereignty can only be asserted for up to four years. There is also a proposal for a new § 110d on local autonomy. The Committee notes that the increase in international agreements with different levels of commitment is an important part of the development of international cooperation based on agreed driving rules. During the course of the post-war period, Norway has supported the development of new international cooperation bodies and the development of binding international cooperation based on democracy and the principles of the rule of law, and the system that has been put in place up to today has led to the ratification and approval of the main issues by the People’s elected body Stortinget. The Committee is satisfied with the current system in this area and does not consider it necessary to amend the Constitution § 26. With regard to the proposal to amend the Constitution § 93, the Committee has not found it possible to agree that this should be limited to a maximum of four years, nor to the other elements listed by Steinar Bastisen. I also show that the committee has a more thorough examination of another proposal to amend Section 93, which will be discussed later in today's meeting. As regards the amendment proposed on local autonomy in § 110d, the Committee points out that, in the context of Document No. 12:9 for 2003-2004 on amendments to the Basic Law § 49 on the constitutionalisation of the local self-government, Innst. S. No 203 for 2006-2007, address this issue in detail. None of the proposals were then accepted. However, there is a concerted committee which points to the decision of the Government to request the appointment of a wide-ranging selection in order to determine the implications for other legislation vis-à-vis municipalities of the possible constitutionalisation of local self-government. Against this background, the Committee will not endorse the proposal for a new § 110d, as proposed by Steinar Bastesen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e366	I just want to make a few brief comments in addition to what the working case rapporteur said. I will focus on the two proposals concerning the conclusion of international agreements. It may well be said that what the proposer wants to achieve is to make it more necessary to enter into international commitments and organisations. Any agreement entered into by the Government shall have the consent of the Grand Duchy. Today, Section 26 states that Stortingen’s agreement is necessary if the agreement requires a new law or other decision. Steinar Bastesen also proposes that agreements requiring a new law be adopted by a two-thirds majority. In addition, as the working rapporteur said, it is proposed - we can call it - that the sunset clause for agreements requiring amendment of the law be renewed every four years, if necessary. The justification given by the proposer is the development that has taken place since World War II, a development in which we have received international bodies and agreements restricting the country's freedom of action and sovereignty. This is a development Norway has wholeheartedly supported throughout the post-war period. Binding international cooperation is particularly in the interests of small countries. Developments have taken steps to build up international bodies and agreements that make a stronger and stronger commitment to participating countries and which create a regional or global legal regime. It's a development we should be happy for. Proposes the Bastisen is absolutely right. It is a development that limits the freedom of action of each country. That's the way it has to be. It is not possible to oblige each other to act more collectively while maintaining full autonomy. Norway has signed around 900 international agreements which narrow down the scope of its action to a greater or lesser extent. Once we've done that, of course, it's because we've thought it's in our own interest. The major challenges we face, the environment, climate, terrorism and international crime, poverty reduction and better international distribution require more and no less committed cooperation between countries. That is why my recommendation, as a unanimous committee, is that the proposals be rejected. If they are adopted, Norway will be a slowdown in the work of a better organised world.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e379	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 1720]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e394	It deals with two basic legislative proposals related to the Constitution § 93. One is from the representatives of Arnstad and Haga on the referendum advisory, and the other from the representatives of Wohning and Christiansen on the opening of consent to the transfer of sovereignty by a 2/3 majority when an advisory referendum is held first. It might be wise to recapitulate § 93, a provision that came into the Constitution in 1962. It says in its entirety: ‘In order to ensure international peace and security or to promote international law and cooperation, the Grand Thing may, with three quarters of a majority, agree that an international association to which Norway is associated or joins, in a restricted area, shall be able to exercise powers which, in accordance with this Constitution, otherwise fall within the jurisdiction of the Governments of the State, but shall not have the power to amend this Constitution. When Storthinget is required to give his consent, as with the consideration of Constitutional proposals, at least two thirds of its members should be present.The provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to participation in an international association whose decisions have purely international effect for Norway.» When this provision was given, it was based on a possible Norwegian membership of the common market, which it called back in 1962 - what was called the EC and later the European Union, i.e. the European Union. The transfer of constitutional powers to an international organisation may take place in two ways, either by Section 93, which will require a 3/4 majority in this Chamber - then this may take place in the same period - or by Section 112, as a 2/3 majority would be required, but with a choice between. The use of the referendum institute as such does not often happen in our state. It has been used six times from 1905 until today - the first two times related to the Union resolution, the first on the form of governance, among other things, twice in connection with the ban on the sale of spirits, and, as we know, twice on any Norwegian membership of the EC/EU, 1972 and 1994. § 93 is used only once. This occurred in 1992 and was subject to consent to the ratification of the EEA Agreement. So to the two suggestions that have been put forward in the vote. With regard to the Arnstad and Haga proposals, they consider that a provision of the Constitution should be introduced to ensure procedural rules when dealing with matters relating to the waiver of sovereignty to international organisations. They also want to legislate that there should be a referendum on such matters and that referendums should be advisory. In the Committee, only the representative of the Centre Party shares this view. The majority believe that there is no need to amend the Constitution at this point because there is a practice of using an advisory referendum in matters of possible entry into the EU, and that the people's advice must again be obtained if the issue of EU membership comes back on the political agenda. Furthermore, such a change as is proposed here will change the use of the referendum institute as such and may also have consequences we do not have a full overview of today. On this basis, the majority reject the proposal in Document No. 12:12 from the representatives Arnstad and Haga. So to the second proposal that the vote deals with, Document No. 12:7, made by the representatives Wohnning and Christiansen. They believe that the requirement to transfer authority to an international organisation is too strict, i.e. 3/4 majority according to § 93 - especially in connection with § 112, where the requirement is 2/3 majority, but then with a choice between. The proposers believe that they maintain the link between these paragraphs by adding an opening to use a 2/3 majority in cases where the people's advice has only been obtained in a referendum - in other words, that one does not have to wait for the subsequent magnificence, because the people's advice has only been obtained in an advisory referendum, and in this way, in the opinion of the proposers, meets the intention of the Constitution. The proposal thus allows Norway to be notified to an international organisation during the same large-scale period, thereby transferring state authority by a two-thirds majority if it has obtained a majority in an advisory referendum. The proposers believe that the loss of the democratic guarantee contained in an interim election is compensated by the use of an advisory referendum, and that it creates a parallelity in the two paragraphs 93 and 112 of the law dealing with the renunciation of sovereignty. This proposal - not with exactly the same wording, but rather in parallel - has been rejected in the past by the Stortinget. As late as the last period, a somewhat similar proposal did not bring together a majority. For more detailed reasons, I refer to representatives from the majority parties in the Committee, the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Right. The minority in the Committee, the parties SV, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party reject the proposal, mainly because it changes the rules of the game and procedures used to deal with these kinds of issues, not least because it removes the democratic balance that lies in the fact that one has to have a large-scale choice between one and the other, by reducing the majority requirement to two-thirds in the case of renunciation of sovereignty. Furthermore, there is a significant democratic strength in having a common and unambiguous approach to the use of Section 93, and that everyone agrees on this, regardless of the view on the issue under consideration. The proposal, which has a majority in the Committee, amends the procedure underpinned by the referendums on EU membership - or EC membership - both in 1972 and 1994. After the minority in the Committee's view, it is fundamentally and politically unfortunate. The reality of the proposal is that it will be easier to give sovereignty by means of an advisory referendum under Section 93 than it would be by amending the Constitution § 112. Let me stress that the requirement under § 93 must not be less than the requirement under § 112. We who represent the minority, on this basis, do not approve of the proposal for these political and principal reasons. In addition, let me add, because I see that this issue has been raised in the public debate, that the amendment of the procedure relating to Section 93 does not entail any change in reality as to whether the Storting must follow the advice of the people, and that, in this context, it is not democratically problematic to weaken the requirement of amendment by Section 93. Whether that is saying that question is not being addressed today. I agree that there is an obligation to follow the advice given by the people when they ask for the advice of the people - but the issue they are discussing today is the balance between § 93 and § 112, which was introduced in 1962. The question of binding referendums or referenda is therefore not part of this debate and is not mentioned in these two paragraphs of the Constitution. The starting point is that in the case of an amendment to Section 93, as proposed by the proposers, the balance between Section 93 and Section 112 will be weakened. The democratic balance that makes it possible to protect minorities in the Constitution is not random. Of course, when it was adopted - in 1962 - it was well-advised that 3/4 and 2/3 of these two paragraphs were selected. In the opinion of the minority, the majority of the Committee weakens this safety valve and the well-thought-out balance introduced in 1962. It is unfortunate, in the opinion of the minority, and on this basis we will neither support the proposal in principle nor support it politically. Let me also, in conclusion, say that being a constitutional conservative in these kinds of questions has many good sides. Being a Constitutional Conservative is radical, but you have to make sure that the procedures that are put in place are such that all the people and all the parties can stand behind them. Creating changes leading to this kind of turbulence around § 93 would be unfortunate if the issue of EU membership re-entered the political agenda. It is a strength for a nation, and it is a strength for a parliament to agree on a clear procedure. It will also ensure that if the question of membership comes up again, this type of procedural debate will be avoided, but it will agree on the same procedure that was adopted in 1994 and 1972.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e439	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e442	The Advocate General, Mr Djupedal, referred to the fact that the proposal under consideration would entail changes to the rules of procedure and to the procedures established in 1962. That's not right, because in 1962 the question of referendum was not part of either the debate or the basis. The proposal here is that if a referendum is held, the requirement in the Storting changes from 3/4 to 2/3. That's completely new, because referendums are brought into the Constitution. In the public debate, the question is: the procedure has been followed so far because no proposals for ratification have been made, and because the people said no. What is needed for SV to say yes to follow a referendum on e.g. EU? This is a general question, or general matter, which is not related to the EU, but will be taken into account in the advisory referendum that if there is 50.1 pst. on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, will all the SV representatives vote in favour of ratification?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e449	Let me just say a little bit about the story. It is clear that there is an advantage for a nation to have one unique approach to such a demanding political issue as a question of EU membership has been and is in Norway. Creating changes in procedures, related to the amendment of one of the Constitution paragraphs, in this field, in my opinion and in the opinion of the minority, is unfortunate. With regard to the view on referendum and the majority to be held, my position is that when people are asked for advice, this Council should be followed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e456	The rapporteur said that it is an advantage with clear rules. We can agree on that. However, where I cannot follow the reasoning, in the statement that today's section 93 is unique. If it had been unambiguous, we would not have felt that every single period of enlargement after 1962 has been promoted one or more amendments to this paragraph. It tells me it's not unique. The second striking thing is that the proposal which has not at all attracted attention in the public debate, promoted by the central party’s top figures Arnstad and Haga, has, of course, as a starting point and as a reason that there is a lack of clarity in today’s section 93. Does the representative of Djupedal really think that today's section 93 is unique?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e463	Yeah, I mean it. The reason is that § 93 has only been used once in our state practice, and that was in the approval of the EEA Treaty. So you have a 3/4 majority within the same period, and this protection of the minority is from 1962. The fact that on many different occasions different parties and different representatives have proposed amending Section 93 or, for that matter, other paragraphs of the Basic Law do not alter the fact that Section 93 is very clear. If you want to give sovereignty without having an intermediate choice, you need a 3/4 majority. If you want to weaken this requirement to 2/3, you have to have an intermediate choice, and it is regulated by Section 112 of the Constitution. These two paragraphs have a parallelity in them. So to the question that wages rise in the proposal that is currently under consideration - the question of advisory referendum as a third element in this. The element with which the representative is well known is not regulated by the Basic Law at all. It's a custom that regulates it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e472	I noticed that the representative Djupedal replied on behalf of himself and not SV, and that was interesting. I asked him, as an SV representative, about SV had the same opinion that he expressed, namely that a majority in the referendum should be respected and followed. I would like to ask again whether he can answer on behalf of SV. It is quite incomprehensible that the representative, Mr Djupedal, with his opinion, will vote against the present proposal. Because if Djupedal's attitude is that if the people have said yes, he will vote yes - and then he must be in order that a minority in the Grand Duchy will not be able to block the decision that the people have taken in the referendum, that a minority will not be able to prevent it from respecting referendum results. Here's the thing about making a minor change -- that instead of it being enough with a quarter to block the people's will, it's going to be increased to a third. In accordance with the personal opinion Djupedal has expressed, he should support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e481	When you are elected to the Grand Council, you have a mandate from your constituents. Each single representative has his or her conscience, electoral programme and his or her own conviction to follow in such matters. Parties may decide to follow the advice of the peoples in a referendum, but there are heavy, both legal and international, arguments as to why 50.1 on the waiver of sovereignty is demanding. Let me say that the point of this discussion is not necessarily a 50.1 pst.-debate, because it will be a political debate. Protection of the minority is in every constitution, and it is not by chance that a majority minority protection was introduced in 1962 - i.e. - for a period of time, but it weakens to 2/3 when it is an intermediate election and the people have had the opportunity to choose new representatives if they were dissatisfied with what their former representatives did. In this there is a democratic minority protection. Carl I. Hagen shouldn't take this lightly. To pretend this is a 50.1 pst.-debate, make this a bit of a hesitant debate. That's not what this is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e490	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e493	Paragraph 93 of the Constitution was adopted in 1962. But the proposal for such a paragraph is older. It was promoted as early as 1952, by, among other things. The representatives Rakel Seweriin from the Workers' Party and Herman Smitt-Ingebitsen from the Right. In this proposal, the requirement was for majority 2/3, as in the case of constitutional changes. It contained no reference to referendum. The proposal was not adopted at the time, because there was no current need and because many wanted a different design of the proposal. The same was true in 1960, when the proposal was back up. In 1962 it was then incorporated into the Constitution, and then with the alternative as prescribed by the 3/4 majority. Paragraph 93 of the Constitution provides, as the rapporteur explained, an opening to transfer sovereignty in a defined area. It has been used once when we adopted the EEA Agreement. However, it has been assessed to be used on several occasions, when we have entered into international agreements and bodies, including: Schengen Agreements. This paragraph has been inserted in order to ensure that the Constitution does not prevent Norway from being an active participant in a move towards stronger and more comprehensive international cooperation between countries, in order to ensure international peace and security or to promote international legal order, as stated in the paragraph. This is a development Norway has wholeheartedly supported throughout the post-war period. An international legal order is particularly in the interests of small countries. The developments we have had since World War II have taken steps to build up international bodies and agreements, which are more and more binding on the participating countries. It's a development we should be happy for. However, there is also a trend that restricts the individual country's freedom of action. And so it has to be. Because it is not possible to oblige each other to act more collectively while at the same time retaining their full right of self-determination. Norway has signed around 900 international agreements which narrow down the scope of its action to a greater or lesser extent. Once we've done that, of course, it's because we've thought it's in our own interest -- in some cases to secure our security, which NATO and UN membership are examples of, in others to safeguard our financial interests, the EEA Agreement and WTO membership are examples of. The 900 agreements we have concluded are of a international nature. But it still leads to a narrowing of our room of action, thereby effectively limiting our sovereignty. Thus far, Section 93 has been used only in the context of the EEA Agreement. But if it existed in 1949, it would certainly have had to be used when we went into NATO. However, the paragraph has been considered to be used on several occasions, not only at the conclusion of the 1997 Schengen Agreement. It was assessed by the amendments to the Energy Act in 2005, allowing ESA to obtain information and impose fines directly on Norwegian enterprises. And it was considered to be used when registered with the European Patent Organisation. Legal environments then considered that the paragraph should be used because it involves a transfer of administrative sovereignty. If we look at what are our major, common challenges internationally - climate change, poverty reduction and the threats of terrorism - I think we all agree that there is a need for more and stronger committed cooperation between countries. That means that we must have the will to give sovereignty. The current government draws on the Soria Moria agreement, for example: pursue the objective of developing the UN Environment Programme into a World Organisation with sanctioning powers. This will mean that this House and the parliaments of all other countries must be willing to give up some of their sovereignty. Hopefully, we are facing a time when international cooperation is becoming stronger, more committed and more comprehensive. Against such a background, I do not think it would be right to impose requirements for mandatory and advisory referendums in Section 93, as the proposal of Marit Arnstad and Åslaug Haga implies. This could lead to an increasing use of referendums, also related to sovereignty transfers that would probably and hopefully would be less controversial. The question of introducing referendums as a legally binding element of our parliamentary system should be discussed on a more fundamental basis in this case. A very central question in this case will be whether the referendum should be purely advisory or binding. Such a fundamental discussion does not add up to the proposal. That is why we are in favour of rejecting this proposal. The referendum, as the rapporteur also explained, has been used very few times in the context of national politics. It was used when we had to choose the kingdom or the republic at the liberation from Sweden in 1905. As far as our foreign policy is concerned, it has been used twice, in connection with our applications to join the EU. This has created a habit. That is why there is no disagreement or doubt that a third Member's request will result in a referendum. Nor is there any disagreement that a referendum is constitutionally advisory. But there has never been any doubt on the part of the Workers' Party that a referendum had to be respected, regardless of the outcome. It will also be the Labour Party's position in a third referendum on EU membership. For this reason, the starting point for us to consider this draft constitution from Inge Wohnning and Julie Christiansen has been that it is about the Constitution and not about the EU issue. The proposal will create a parallelity in Section 93 when referendums to constitutional changes have been held. Such a change will strengthen the influence of the referendum on the decision-making process. Constitutional is the responsibility of this Chamber. The transfer of sovereignty is serious and must be based on broad political consensus. Therefore, the minority protection must be strong. But once the people have been given the opportunity to advise the Stortinget, it will politically lay a decisive lead for the treatment here in the Chamber. Therefore, it should also be expressed by the fact that the requirement for a qualified majority is somewhat less than when it has not been a referendum. Thus, the starting point for the Workers' Party's consideration of this proposal has been that it concerns the Constitution and not EU membership. But not all of our representatives agree on this point either. That is why the Labour Party Group will not be united at the vote later today. The debate that has taken place in the media prior to treatment today is, in my opinion, more suitable for obfuscating than for disclosing the issues. I allow myself to comment on some of the things that have been said: It has been claimed by central party representatives that a change will be a breach of minority protection in the Constitution. No, at my discretion, it is in line with minority protection to change the Constitution. It has been argued that this should facilitate the notification of Norway into the EU. I've said a little bit of a joke that that recipe, why this is getting easier, I'd like to have, because I'm interested in trying it out. But no, it does not, because the key to EU membership lies in a majority in a new referendum. The proposed amendment to Section 93 does not alter this reality. In the setting, the minority, representatives from SV, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party write: ‘These members will point out that a reduction in the majority requirement of Section 93 by the use of a referendum on the public opinion alters the procedure used in the 1972 and 1994 referendums.’ No, at my discretion, the change in the majority requirement to 2/3 is not changing the procedure. In our opinion, it should be the same. The rules of procedure for which there has been a precedent in the EU case are that a referendum should be held and that its outcome should be respected. Although the referendum is advisory, the outcome has been respected both the two times the matter has been raised. So it will be the referendum that will decide, at least what the representatives of the Labour Party will vote in this Chamber. The only thing this change will mean is that it strengthens the referendum as an element of the decision-making process. It's getting harder for a small minority here in the hall to vote down a majority of the people. It's the only reality that changes. When Section 93 was introduced, the Central Party's wish for minority protection was not 1/4, but 1/6. This would mean that 29 representatives in today's crowd would be sufficient to stop a yes, or a registration in an organisation that involves the issuing of sovereignty. In 1994, the Central Party would not clarify whether the party would respect the outcome before the referendum. SV was then also unclear and talked about a double majority, a majority in a majority of the counties. Later it is made clear that SV will respect the outcome of a new referendum. I have understood the representative Djupedal here today so that he confirmed the clarification. I hope the Central Party will clarify the same thing here in the Chamber today, or confirm that what they want is that as small a minority as possible here in the Chamber will retain the opportunity to vote a majority in a referendum. Let me repeat what is also in the vote: the Labour Party will respect the outcome of a referendum, whether the majority become yes or no, whether it is about EU membership or another membership. With this, I recommend that the representatives of the Workers' Party support the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e560	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e563	The vote will take place at the next voting time. ‘The majority consider that the time aspect of the constitutional change procedure is in principle important, as it is consistent with the idea of popular sovereignty that the Constitution is the property of the people, not of the Stortinges alone.’ Then I hear that the representative Hansen says that the proposal that is now being made creates a parallelity in Section 93. However, the time aspect is not at all covered by the changes contained in Section 93. So does the majority and the representative, Hansen, think that a referendum, in which everything takes place in a month or two, replaces the whole of the constitutional protection that requires one case to lie between one period and another, and that the composition of the Storting can be affected by the election before the case is decided?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e573	Interesting and acute legal and state-scientific discussions on these issues may be taking place. But the political reality is that the times when we have had a referendum, it has been a broad debate, an engaged debate, before a vote has been held which would be a advice to the Stortinget. In the case of constitutional changes, there may be older people in this room than I can remember, but I do not remember that proposals for constitutional changes that have been in place for two years or over a year have been a central theme in a roll-call election campaign. So when it comes to people's ability to express their views on a change in the Constitution through an election, it's there, but in practice it's not going to be a central theme in the election campaign. Therefore, the public expression through a referendum will be much clearer and much more representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e578	I notice that in his contribution, the representative Hansen stated that his view was at least initially in the context of the discussion of this matter that it was about the Constitution and not about the EU issue. But then I understood that the process and the debate have led to him being made aware that the EU issue will be a central part of this. Now I think of the representative Hansen as a very thoughtful and wise man who thinks a lot of steps forward, so I wonder a little bit about him not having understood in an early stage that this will be a little side fight for what is perhaps a big political issue in our generation in the Norwegian debate. So I want to ask the representative Hansen to elaborate on it: has he really thought that a debate would be held on this issue, at this point, detached from the EU question? And the second quick question: Hansen also has a problem outside this hall, as a yes-general. Does he perceive that looking up this question now serves the yes-case, or does it harm it? I think the last thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e583	I thank you for your warm compliments. It is not surprising that the EU has been involved in the way it has been, but my starting point has been that this is about the Constitution and not about the EU. Whether this makes the yes matter or not remains to be seen, and I believe that to the extent that we never get an answer. But there's little evidence to suggest that there's going to be a topical issue to discuss. When I believe that this does not change the reality, does not make it easier or more difficult to get Norway into the EU as a full member, it is because on the day it has become a yes in referendum, there will be three-quarters majority here in the Chamber following the advice of the people. There's only one party, as far as I know, and it's the Center Party, which has announced that they can imagine doing something else. If the Central Party were to have 43 representatives here in the Chamber, there is no political climate here in Norway to get a referendum.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e592	I can belong to those who say they think Hansen is good in many ways, while I deeply disagree with him in this matter, with which he is well known. The representative mentioned in his statement today that we had to expect to renounce sovereignty in many areas, and he mentioned international commitments, among others. in the case of climate. I was so lucky to be at the Johannesburg Summit on that topic. There was Børge Brende and Hilde Frafjord Johnson's tribute, they were heard by all over the world because they spoke with their own voice. The same thing happened in the U.N. in the fall. Støre and Stoltenberg received special praise--Norway is heard, because we stand alone and speak with our own voice. I do not know how the representative views this in connection with a possible EU request, to which we can draw this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e604	I would like to take part in a substance debate on the EU, but the reality of our relationship with the EU is that we are today much more integrated than we were in 1994. We are involved in the deepest integrated cooperation in the EU, namely the internal market, in which, with the exception of the euro, fish and agriculture, we must follow and take over all the rules adopted by our 27 neighbouring countries, without having the right to vote. We're in on a wide range of programs. Every time the EU has expanded its cooperation, Norway has asked to join. Even the Bondevik I government asked to join when they were going to start closer foreign policy cooperation. It is the only time the European Union has said no, this is just for Members. In the UN, we broadly follow the EU's recommendations for various resolutions. I think that our influence on the world community would not be any less, perhaps on the contrary, if we had been a force factor and in a context that could mean anything. What would the world's climate policy be today without the EU's efforts in Bali?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e611	Svein Roald Hansen stated that the Workers' Party believes that if a referendum is held, even if technical and legal advice is given, the Workers' Party will respect the outcome. I'm assuming that that means that if 50.1 pst. The Labour Party will continue to take the view that they will then put forward no proposal in the Storting to ratify an agreement that gives sovereignty. But if 50.1 pst. agree to an existing agreement, the Workers' Party will submit proposals and all workers' party representatives will vote in favour of ratification of that agreement. Others demand that a quarter of the representatives of the Storting should be able to block the decision of the people. Will the Labour Party, in this clear situation, then consider introducing a binding referendum, so that the referendum which will be voluntarily respected in the Labour Party will also be respected by an overall increase, by moving the decision to the people in a referendum through a binding referendum?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e618	Let me first express my pleasure at the fact that the representative Hagen assumes that the Labour Party is in government next time we are going to debate and apply for EU membership. But I can confirm that in that case there will be no proposal for the Storting from a government if there has become a no in the people, no matter how small that no-majority is. So it's been the last two times. I can also confirm that if the opposite happens, hopefully, there will be a proposal, and then the representatives of the Labour Party will support it. None of those who disagree with the party’s programme in that EU membership is the most sensible for Norway, which has stated that they will not respect a referendum. The question of introducing a binding referendum is one that requires a much broader review of our entire constitution. The Labour Party has not done so, so I have no answer to that question. Personally, I am very concerned about introducing referendums as a mandatory element in our constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e627	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e631	Let me first clarify that we have the same view as the representative Svein Roald Hansen regarding what is now being treated. It is a proposal to amend the Constitution § 93, which reduces the majority requirement from 3/4 to 2/3 when it comes to ratifying an agreement that gives sovereignty to an international organisation, if a referendum has been held and the referendum result is that the people have agreed to an agreement to transfer sovereignty to an organisation. That is the principle to which we in the Progress Party correspond. Then there are some who have tried - to the extent of a certain luck - to link this a little unilaterally to the issue of possible Norwegian membership of the European Union, and thus have created quite a confusion as to what the debate is really about. Our starting point is that it is about the principle, completely independent of the EU. That's what I'm going to do in my post after doing the following clarification. Firstly, some of our representatives, who signed some statements before the 2005 elections, have problems at home and home to hear about the issue of principle, and not about the issue of the EU. And it's in the public room. It is often the case that, although the basis is different, others are able to give the impression that this is about the EU. That is why our group is exempted, and some of our group's members are likely to vote against it because it has created this confusion, that this should have something to do with the EU. So that's the one-sided reason for this. The position of our party is that we want a system in which this kind of decision is to be taken by the people through a binding referendum. The Labour Party considers it to be politically binding, if not legally and constitutionally binding. That is why I have raised the question of whether we really need to look at introducing some rules for binding referendums, because it is the people then who replace the Storing as a decision maker. Then there are some people in this EU variant who are trying to push on me a yes-position. Let me also make it clear that I was an incandescent yes-man in 1972, a very dubious yes-man in 1994, but today it is more likely that I would vote no to a question of membership of the European Union than that I would vote yes. So I don't belong to the yes people who, in this context, want to join the European Union, I'm more likely to be a no-man, if that problem should come up again. So that's why I'm dealing with the principle. To me, respect for the people and the people's decisions is in principle. It is quite obvious that any question of relinquishing the sovereignty of an international organisation will be much better covered by the population in a referendum than as an element of a big election struggle. A big election campaign is about many more things than the one that someone seems to be very important, and there are many people who will be strongly in doubt, whether they agree with one political party's programme in terms of social policy, health policy, criminal policy, foreign policy, defence policy, but perhaps they disagree with exactly one element of relinquishing sovereignty to an international organisation. That dilemma escapes the voters if there is actually a referendum on one crucial question of giving sovereignty. That's why we think that a referendum, where people unilaterally take a stand on a single issue - when it comes to voting, yes and no to a question, it's simple, it can be a lot of complicated things, whether you say yes or no - is a far, far more important and better decision than finally choosing one party, under doubt, because maybe it's a little better than the competing party you're asking if you should vote on, because there's so many things you're doing in a big election fight. So it's been said that we need to have clear and one-sided rules. I totally agree with that, and that's what you're trying to do. At least we would if we had a binding referendum, because then it would be quite unambiguous and clear, then the people would decide in a referendum. We have had two referendums to give sovereignty to an international organization with which we have negotiated an agreement. Both times it was a crazy majority of the people who said no. So if it's a no to such an agreement, then we have a clear code - but it's actually based on a political loyalty from those who thought you should say yes to that agreement. They have failed to make proposals in the United Kingdom to ratify the agreement, so that there has been no debate on whether there was a sufficient majority, whether there was a majority in all districts, whether there was a majority in agriculture, fisheries or industry and banking. There has been no theme. The question is, what is the law if the people in the referendum say yes to a negotiated agreement with an organization to renounce sovereignty? Is that a clear piece of legislation? No, that's not it. There is no clear legislation. Constitutional legislation - the continued need for a 3/4 majority in the main hall for ratification of the agreement - is the current legislation. The present draft constitution reduces the majority requirement, if it has been a referendum, to 2/3. But that means that 1/3 of the big ones' representatives can still block, hinder, the people's decision to win. Dagfinn Sundsbø asked about the time element, and I think he got a glittering response from Svein Roald Hansen, just that in a referendum there is a big debate for a few months about the one matter that is not being sapped together with all the other issues that will be in any ordinary decision-making. Therefore, the decision in a referendum on one matter will be far heavier - and tone-giving - and should be given far greater weight than if this were one element of a constitutional proposal that was part of the theme of a big election fight. So I'd like to be allowed to challenge in particular the Center Party, which is very concerned with unique rules. What does the Central Party consider to be the political, moral and unambiguous legislation to which reference is made - we know the constitutional, that is not what I am asking - if the people in the referendum agree that Norway should join an international organisation with which the Norwegian Government has negotiated a accession agreement? What is the unique legislation claimed to exist from previous decisions in this area? Is it clear that the Central Party - and to the extent that the SV and perhaps the Christian People's Party and the Left - will also respect the outcome of the referendum and all the representatives voting in accordance with the outcome of the referendum when the constitutional question of the conclusion and ratification of the agreement is to be dealt with in the Grand Chamber? If we get the confirmation that they have the same attitude as the other side, that we respect the decision of the people, then let us know! Let the people know. But the last time this was up, the Central Party said that they would consider in retrospect -- not in advance, so that people could know it -- if any yes-multiple to transfer sovereignty to an international organisation based on a negotiated agreement that was to be ratified was sufficient. Only then would you consider whether the majority was sufficient. But what is sufficient? That's 55 pst.? It's 60 pst.? Is that 67,8? pst.? What is it? I think we should ask for an answer to that. Is it a qualified majority, as has been judged in other contexts: that there should be a majority in the population, but also a majority in all the counties? Or should it be in all regions - which we will eventually get? Or is it going to be a majority of at least two parts of the country? I now think the Central Party and others should clarify what is the unique legislation that is believed to be from the past, so that a majority in a referendum can assume that the National Assembly of the country ratifys an agreement with an international organisation to which Norway is to give sovereignty under a negotiated agreement. What is the unique legislation of the Centre Party and others? Or is it the case that what is the constitutional system today is that a quarter of the elected depositors should be able to block at any time and prevent a majority of the population who have agreed to an agreement from getting the respect that the agreement is formally approved by the national parliament?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e665	The constitutional proposals that we are going to deal with in this matter are about adapting the Constitution to the fact that we have had two referendums in modern times, one in 1972 and one in 1994. Since the referendum was about Norwegian membership of the EU, the proposals are naturally linked to the EU case. However, it cannot be excluded that Section 93 may apply if Norway wishes to transfer authority to another international organisation. An overall committee determines that it sees an international development where the issue of transfer of sovereignty to international organisations may become more topical and where such transfer may take place in more limited areas than in EU membership. The difference between today’s EEA agreement and EU membership in terms of sovereignty renunciation is not very large, and paradoxically we can feel that we are renunciating sovereignty in other areas, for example: by means of an climate agreement or an environmental agreement internationally with supranational bodies which are in itself more extensive than the difference between the current situation and full EU membership. When Section 93 was introduced in 1962, it was made to deal with a situation in which a decision on membership of the EEC was proposed and taken, as it was then called, during the same period of enlargement. There was no referendum when this was dealt with in 1962. However, the call for a referendum came later. The historian Tor Bjørklund confirms this historical perception in the book «To the Current. The fight against EF 1961 - 1972, published by the University Press in 1982. He writes there, among other things. that some EC opponents viewed Section 93 as the Storting's own clear signal of entry into the EC at the top of the population, for at that time it was not decided that there would be a referendum. Therefore, those who claim to make a change now are changing the rules of the EC case, should then go back to 1962 and see that it was then, when the referendum institute was introduced, in addition to the procedure in Section 93, which, if necessary, changed the rules of the game, not now. The requirement for a majority was therefore higher than the requirement for constitutional changes, because - as it was then called - the proposal should not be above a choice, as constitutional proposals should be. In a case where both a referendum and a decision are to be taken by a qualified majority in the Grand Duchy, the balance must be strictly respected in order to ensure that the final decision is seen as fair and legitimate. If, through a referendum, the people have agreed to transfer authority to an international organisation, it will certainly be perceived as both illegitimate and undemocratic if a small minority of the Storting stops the decision. It is this situation that the proposal now before us will help to prevent in a very careful and moderate way - I must say. I must also say very clearly that I agree with the previous speaker on one point. The introduction of referendums as a premise for a two-thirds majority is much stronger than the time aspect of leaving the proposal ahead of a major choice. I would like to ask a question: has anyone in Norwegian history experienced a big choice about one basic bill? That's it. In other words, the referendum as an institute in addition to § 93 ensures popular sovereignty much stronger than the time aspect by leaving proposals above elections. I will not elaborate further on what Hagen referred to, among others. the point that you get into a dilemma when you want to vote on a party, but you disagree with the party's view of the present constitution. In a referendum, there is one question, and one is released in many ways from party bonds or party traditions. And the participation and engagement -- it's probably unnecessary to disclose -- is a lot stronger in a referendum of this kind than it normally is in a big shot. However, the principle of the proposal of the Right-wing Representatives is simple: a proposal to transfer powers to an international organisation should be anchored in the people, either by an election or by a referendum. The proposal equates with the democratic guarantee that lies in an election and in a referendum. So you could in principle think of a smaller majority requirement in the Biggest, because you introduce popular sovereignty so directly through a referendum. That is why I have characterised the proposal as very cautious and moderate. While this principle has been formulated as a breach of minority protection in the Constitution, the proposal acknowledges that the Stortinget takes the final decision by qualified majority, two thirds, as in the case of constitutional changes. It is also presented in such a way that the proposal will change the rules in order to make it easier to notify Norway into the EU. So first it has to be a majority in Stortinget to send an application. A result of the negotiations must first be presented to the people for an advisory referendum. If it does, the matter must finally be adopted in the Grand Duchy by a qualified majority of two thirds - and that is in line with practice. But the proposal prevents a coup from the no-side by allowing them, with only 43 representatives, to block the will of the people. The strong counter-reaction of no-representatives to this proposal has created, surprises something. Why do so many see it as important to maintain the ability of today's rules to outrun the outcome of a referendum? In particular, I wonder at representatives of the Labour Party, who have clearly warned, at least in their opinion, that they want to vote against this proposal, when representatives of the Party assure that it is a collective party that will not use this minority option to prevent a yes in a referendum from becoming a yes in the Grand Duchy. There's reason to wonder something about it. The fact that representatives of the Progress Party may also vote against it is also a little wonder, for the representative Carl I. Hagen has just made a warm and good contribution to the fact that this provision raises a referendum in the Constitution to an importance that it has not previously had - de facto, and the Progress Party is in favour of a binding referendum. And a little bit closer to EU issues than this, you'll hardly get there. So if you're committed to strengthening the referendum as the institute, it surprises me a little bit if you would then vote against the present Constitutional proposal from the representative of Wage. Because there is absolutely nothing other than the requirement of the qualified majority now changing, assuming, as I said, that there is an advisory referendum, of course, with a similar result. So do we have to interpret this so that someone actually wants to take advantage of this opportunity? I am not surprised that the Central Party in the media today, as spoke by County Governor Anne Enger, confirms that it is still seen that the majority will later be called upon to qualify for both industries, regions and districts. I have not mentioned the centre party in this post before - I am not surprised that the centre party is voting against this proposal. On this basis, I can assure you that everyone in the Right will vote in favour of this constitution, and we will do so independently of the confusion created by some of our opponents locally and centrally.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e696	The transfer of power from Norwegian elected bodies to international bodies is not an easy-to-use solution or decision. There are far-reaching and serious steps to take. There must therefore be a high threshold to allow Norwegian sovereignty to escape. Paragraph 93 of the Constitution was adopted when the matter of membership of the EEC came on the agenda in 1962. Three days used the Stortingen to discuss the matter at the time, and there was broad support that 3/4 majority would be required if the Stortingeten agrees to give sovereignty ‘in a factually limited area’ as it says in the basic text. The Christian People's Party then proposed that a 5/6 majority be required, and many of our representatives voted against the provision when this was not adopted. At that time, in 1962, it was about a factually less sovereignty renunciation. In the time that followed, we have seen a move in Europe towards even stronger integration, so that we are today facing a Union with significantly greater decision-making power over the Member States. Membership will therefore involve a much wider renunciation of sovereignty. The matter has therefore become even more principled and serious. In such a situation, at least we should not contribute to lowering the Constitutional threshold for EU membership. With reference to the representative Per-Kristian Foss from the Right, I am afraid that his interpretation of history was at best approximate. Because it is not right that the issue of referenda was not present in 1962. Already in the vote, when it was decided to start negotiations with the EEC, points out as far as I can read from Innst. S. No 165 for 1961-1962 all members on the need to adopt a law on the referendum afterwards when the outcome of the negotiations was available. Now we know as we know that there was no result, that it was not relevant at the time. But it was very strong inside the picture at that time. This also points to Arne Strand in a recent comment in the newspaper. The proposal on the table, should it be adopted, involves a change in the rules of the game with regard to decisions on EU membership. In 1972 and 1994, we followed the same rules. First, an advisory referendum was to be held. Secondly, Stortinget was to deal with the matter, and decisions had to be taken by 3/4 majority. Although there are different views of EU membership in this Chamber, we should be able to agree to maintain the rules of the game. Some of the special features of basic legislation are that they must be produced during the first three years of a majorisation period. They shall be made known so as to enable voters to influence the composition of the Magnitude on the basis of such proposals. In constitutional cases, it is therefore important for voters to know what parties and the individual to be chosen will vote - before the elections to the Grand Duchy take place. Now there may not be so many constitutional proposals that become election themes, but in a case like this, which can relate to EU membership, it will probably be important. The special feature of the proposal we are considering today is that all the candidates in the previous election were asked how they would vote on this matter, and the answers were published. If representatives were to vote differently today from what they said at the time - before the 2005 elections - they would have broken the promises they made to the voters at the time. When it comes to dealing with constitutional proposals, I will also focus on the time aspect. Constitutional changes are not made in a hurry. It is safe and secure that the proposals are known at least one year before they are considered. Proposals for decisions under Section 93 do not require such waiting time and do not need to be above a collapse choice. The requirement of a 3/4 majority has compensated for the loss of waiting time. The proposed change means that although an advisory referendum is to be held in advance, it will be easier to give sovereignty under Section 93 than to amend the Constitution. And let me make it clear -- at least the representative Carl I. Hagen doesn't want to ask me that -- that in the Christian People's Party there is a clear understanding that we will respect the referendum. That's what they say. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that we do not change the procedural rules on such a fundamental issue as sovereignty renunciation. We will stand on what we promised before the election, and vote against changing Section 93. The Christian People's Party also opposes the proposal to legislate for a referendum on matters of sovereignty renunciation. There might be things where there won't be a natural referendum. Nor was it when we joined the EEA Agreement. We don't fully see the consequences of such a constitution. It is in any case widely agreed that the practice of referendums in the context of membership of the EU should also apply if the issue is again raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e725	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e728	The representative Lånker said that the Christian People's Party will respect the outcome of the referendum. That means that if fifty commas or other percentages say yes to ratifying an agreement to transfer sovereignty to an international organization - the people have said yes - all Christian People's Party representatives will vote in favour of the formal ratification process in the Stortinget. But then it would be logical for the Christian People's Party and the representative Lånke to vote in favour of the Constitutional Amendment proposal today, because there is the premise - even introduced in the Constitutional Law - that we are holding a referendum. If the principle view is that the task of the Storting is to respect the decision of the people in a referendum, then the representative Lånke should help to make the minority that can block it considerably larger - that is, increased from a quarter to a third. Is it so to understand that the unique understanding of the rules that Ola T. Lånke has is that the Storting should follow the outcome of the referendum?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e738	Yes, I can answer that immediately. I think I explained fairly well to the background that the Christian People's Party chose to have a very narrow gate in to the renunciation of sovereignty. It is linked to the fact that we have representative democracy in Norway, that we need to know what the people think - and you have to be absolutely sure about it. We don't see any reason to change the rules that have been applied every single time -- I'm sure it's happened. We're going to have the same rule that we've had in the future. We can't take the approach that anyone should possibly use this right to block-- an expression that I think is a little odious in this context. In that case, members of the Storting will exercise their right as representatives in this Chamber. We can't stop them from doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e745	The representative Lånker thought that I had a little bit of an approximate relationship with the story. I won't let that stand undisputed. The representative has to go to his post and find out that I mentioned the constitutional treatment of § 93 in 1962. And since the representative Lånker said he had read this three-day debate, I would like to challenge him to make a quote, or refer to when in the 1962 debate on the constitutional changes the question of linking the constitutional provision to a referendum was raised. That it was recorded in the EEC debate later, I am well aware of it, but my quote was therefore a reference to a historian, Tor Bjørklund, and not to a political editor in the newspaper. I believe in itself that historians are better off keeping to than the newspaper or, for that matter, other newspapers' political editors in describing history. Again, I challenge the representative Lånke with regard to the quotation from the 1962 debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e757	I can join the representative Foss’ view, that history researchers may have a slightly higher authority than journalists do. Now they can also have something to do with-- I don't want to ignore it. I think it is good that we get this clarification, and if I have seen the representative Foss wrong, it should not be left standing. What happened was that you wanted to introduce a referendum afterwards. One saw the need - after the constitutional process. And it speaks in the direction of actually strengthening this narrow gateway to the renunciation of sovereignty - and not the other way around, as you're suggesting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e764	The rule in Section 93 is generally formulated. We agree on that. And it has been used for decisions other than EU membership decisions, as the representative Lånke also knows. The paragraph was applicable in the context of the EEA Agreement. And when the EEA agreement was adopted, without a referendum, it was the Christian People's Party that was heavy on the scale of the Stortinget. The representative of the Gjønnes, who carried the weight of it, has described quite vividly what heat he was exposed to in that context. It is now easy to see that the EEA Agreement has resulted in a much wider form of waiver of sovereignty than was the case in 1962 or 1972. My question to the representative Lånke is: does he think that the question of whether the Storting chooses to present a treaty for a referendum or not should be entirely without consequences, that it should not do anything from or to the requirement of a qualified majority?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e771	Now it might be a matter of after-school time compared to what you would have done today, if the question of joining the EEA had come up and it had not been mentioned before. That's not so good to say. It may have been said that an advisory referendum would then have taken place. But we have chosen not to go in favour of a fundamental law of referenda precisely because there may be different kinds of issues. We also do not see the full consequence of having such a system. I don't see that there's any basis for thinking about new numbers in terms of what fraction you're going to have in relinquishing sovereignty to international organizations. In these contexts, I think the most natural thing to do is to add it to an advisory referendum, if you see that the rejection is such a principle and comprehensive nature as it may look later on as the EEA Agreement has been.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e778	For those of us who participated in the ratification of the EEA Agreement, it was quite clear that the waiver of sovereignty was significantly greater than it was actually about in 1962 and the first time they were applied for. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party voted against our proposals for a referendum. It is nice that you now in retrospect perhaps regret it. However, if there had been a referendum, something else would have happened, then Norway would be a member of the EU today. But it didn't work that way. What I don't understand, and I would like to ask Ola T. Lånke about, is: if we again experience a referendum to approve an agreement on accession to an international organization to which we have to give sovereignty, and the people in referendum answer yes, then the Christian People's Party will vote yes in the Chamber. I'm very happy to hear that. Does he then think it is right, and will he react in retrospect, if a minority of a little more than a quarter of the representatives of the Greatness have a completely different moral perception and political loyalty to the people and then prevents the ratification of such an agreement? Would it make Ola T. Loan and Christian People's Party change their mind on these questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e786	I guess that's a hypothetical question. I believe for the longest time that a majority in a referendum will be respected by all in this Chamber. I'll hope and believe it. At least that's our clear setting. I do not think that it would necessarily happen that we are changing our view on this matter. In that case, we'll have to wait and see if such a situation arises, and then we'll have to discuss it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e791	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e794	The Constitutional Law of Marit Arnstad and Åslaug Haga on the amendment of the Constitution § 93 deals with the aforementioned advisory referendum. The procedure for the referendums in 1972 and 1994 was unclear as to the decision-making competence of the Storting, the people, respectively. Constitutional to the decision on EU membership of Stortinget, but politically many have argued - and it is also claimed in today's debate - that it is in favour of the majority. A pick-ja faced with a sufficiently large no-minority in Stortinget, 1/4 plus 1, would have brought the country into a serious decision-making crisis. It was only avoided by the fact that the multiplicity and the collapse minority took the same position. In the event of a new vote, the legislation remains potentially in crisis. The crisis may occur by discrepancy between the number of voters and the size of the population. A yes-no constellation, but also a no-yes constellation, has that effect. The Arnstad and Haga proposals aim to counteract, as far as possible, the locking of our decision-making system. This can best be prevented by explicitly marking the Constitutional exclusive competence of the Storting. Two procedural rules are proposed under the Constitution: that referendum in § 93-related cases is mandatory and advisory. The first rule formalises the real-world political situation, cf. the discussion on EU membership, but commits the Storting to ask the electorate for advice before any waiver of sovereignty. The second codifies the current law. An advisory referendum is and must be advisory. The proposal covers the maximum level of safeguards against the decision-making crisis, so far as constitutional rules - without a binding referendum - can affect the political process. I believe that matters relating to the waiver of sovereignty are of the most demanding Stortingen to decide. The procedure to be followed in order to reach a decision should therefore initially be clearly defined. We believe that today's situation implies a lack of clarity, and fears that a serious decision-making crisis could arise if, for example, a majority of the population voted in favour of a referendum on Norwegian accession to the EU, while more than a quarter of the population's representatives oppose membership. The proposal of Haga and Arnstad in Document No. 12:12 for 2003-2004 will therefore help to make it clear that the Stortinget has decision-making powers in this type of case. I agree with the proposers that this situation is potentially crisis-making, and that the proposal to amend the Basic Law Section 93 can help to avert a very serious situation. On this basis, I would therefore like to mention the proposal in Document No.12:12 for 2003-2004, and refer to the comments of the Central Party in the vote. I should also like to refer to the proposal from the Right in Document No. 12:7 for 2003-2004, where the requirement for a qualified majority in Section 93 by the granting of sovereignty is reduced from three-quarters to two-thirds if an advisory referendum is held first. It is important to have clear rules for decisions as important as the granting of sovereignty. Therefore, decisions taken under Section 93 should have a unique procedure. The requirement to take decisions under Section 93 should not be weaker than in the case of a normal constitutional amendment. Decisions under Section 93 may be taken in two ways, with or without the use of a referendum. If the issue of Norwegian membership of the EU comes up again, there must be a broad consensus on the procedure regardless of the view of Norwegian membership. A reduction in the majority requirement in Section 93 through the use of referendums changes the procedure used in the 1972 and 1994 referendums. For the centre party and for its own part, I would say that we very much disagree with the proposal in Document No. 12:7. If the majority of the Stortinget today is in favour of amending the Constitution § 93, and thus the rules governing a waiver of sovereignty, it is certain that many of the representatives are failing their own voters at the same time. It is a well-known case that for many years, the Right has wanted to amend the Constitution § 93 so that, after an advisory referendum, the Stortinget can notify Norway into the EU. In the previous EU votes in 1972 and 1994, an advisory referendum has been a practice in our democracy. On the part of the Central Party, we believe that the Right's proposal violates the rules of the European Union case which have been in place ever since the first membership debate in 1962. In the past, Stortinget has voted in favour of a similar proposal to weaken minority protection in the Constitution. The new thing that has happened is that the representatives of the Workers' Party and the Advance Party of the Control and Constitution Committee have turned and joined the Right. It is an honest thing that we disagree on EU membership in Norway. The fight between the yes-side and the no-side has been a fair fight and has been largely based on a substantive disagreement. One of the reasons we've done so well is that we've agreed on the rules. They have been stuck for more than 40 years and through two membership debates. It is therefore difficult to accept that the ‘yes’ side now wants to change the rules in order to facilitate Norway’s entry into the EU. Personally, I am very pleased that the no-parties are opposed to the proposal. The vote in Stortinget today is very important. I am pleased to hear from the representatives of the Labour Party and the Progress Party that their representatives are today being set free in this vote. It is important that the representatives who before the 2005 Grand elections were challenged by No to the EU on this particular issue, and who then promised to stand on their no, remain in a straight line in the vote today and say a high and clear no to the Constitutional proposal. On the part of the Centre Party, we are engaged in the most tidy EU fight possible. Therefore, the EU's citizens should also do the same and not change the rules of the game now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e826	The representative Lars Peder Breck has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e831	I have the following questions for the representative, Mr Breck: Will the Central Party respect a referendum on the European Union, even with little margin of yes? In that case, what is it to do to ensure that the Central Party respects a referendum with such a result, and why, in the event of a referendum on the issue at all, if you have many conditions attached to the outcome?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e836	Firstly, I would like to stress that the Central Party wants to hear referendums on all matters relating to the waiver of sovereignty. That is the basis for the proposal we are discussing today. With regard to the issue of sovereignty waiver, the Constitution has a clear minority protection. It has been provided for by the Constitution. It was not least made clear when Paragraph 93 was adopted in 1962, with the current majority requirement, that there should be 3/4 majority in the event of a waiver of sovereignty. In the Central Party there will be different positions in the Party. But the party we never go out in front of a referendum and declare what the position will be. It will be up to each representative to interpret this result in line with the intention of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e845	Does the response to Lars Peder Breck mean that one is in favour of a referendum, but reserves the right to disregard the outcome of the referendum, and that the central party as a party, party organisation and big group does not at all have any view of the rules that should really apply to the handling of a question of ratifying a negotiated agreement with an international organisation on renunciation of sovereignty? How, then, can we talk about unique rules of the game? Does Lars Peder Breck not think that the people who are taking part in the referendum will know what rules of play the Centre is really starting? Or is it purely anarchy in the Center Party, so that each representative just does what he wants? What in the world is going to happen with a referendum, if the Central Party does not want to respect the outcome of the referendum? What is the unique legislation for the ratification of an agreement when the people have said yes in a referendum?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e850	As I said, minority protection in the Constitution is very strong. I am a little surprised that otherwise conservative people are so concerned about changing the Constitution in this area. With regard to the views of the Central Party on the EU vote and other waiver of sovereignty, we want a referendum, which should be advisory. Then, in the next round, each representative will consider that question. Of course, the party will also consider that question, but it won't be that the Central Party will declare in advance whether we say yes or no to a scarce majority in such a decision. I would like to stress that it is also based on the fact that each representative has a electoral contract. It would be very strange if we got a very scarcely yes-majority in the people and that, for example. became a large no-majority in the North Trøndelag, from which I came, that I would have to vote yes in such a case. It must be assessed by each representative on the basis of the Constitutional Law’s intentions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e859	The centre party has a great pathos against changing the Basic Law rules. At the same time, the party leader, together with another prominent central party representative, has put forward proposals to that effect. As far as I understand, a group of central parties shall vote in favour of this proposal. That proposal is a far more radical change constitutionally than the other proposal available for consideration, because it will oblige future enlargement for each and every time to deal with issues of renunciation under Section 93 - and an overall committee says that it is going to happen more frequently and more frequently in the years to come - to hold a referendum. In return, the proposal of the Central Party will imply that the Storting reserves the right to evaluate the advice of the people and to take a stand as to whether the Council is good or bad. This is a dramatic change of Norwegian state. How can the representative Breck make this happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e864	The proposal that Åslaug Haga and Marit Arnstad have made is based on a desire to clarify the premise for renunciation of sovereignty, by being a mandatory referendum in such matters, and there should be an advisory referendum, as the Central Party has consistently stood for, and which is the principle we want to work for further. I would like to stress that it is very important for one to take clear advice into account in the provision of sovereignty. I would like to point out that when Section 93 was adopted in 1962, Højres Svenn Stray, later President-in-Office of the Grand Duchy and Minister for Foreign Affairs, founded the demand for a 3/4 majority with the wish for as high a degree of national consensus as possible on the most important issue. Svenn Stray said that ‘the requirement should be a relatively large majority of the people’. So it's not that it's just the Center Party that has proposed changes. The right also changes the attitude on such matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e871	I have two questions. The rules on the rules on Norwegian EU membership have been passed through the practice we have had through the two votes. The representative Breck believes it is important to keep the rules unchanged. Both times it has become a scarcely no-majority, which has been respected by the Government. Is it not then to respect even the scarce majority become part of the rules of the game? Then why doesn't the Center Party want to follow that part of the rules? The second question concerns the same thing as the representative on the pay side. It is in the rationale of the proposal to have a mandatory, but advisory referendum that a electoral yes faced with a sufficiently large no-minority in the Grand Duchy would have brought the country into a deeply serious decision-making crisis. Can the representative Breck explain how this can be avoided by codifying the current law - that it is the Stortinget who has the decision and that the Council is just a council?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e881	The custom of having an advisory referendum is important. That is what we want to make fundamental laws through the proposal by Marit Arnstad and Åslaug Haga. We believe it is extremely important to state that the referendum should be advisory, given that it is in the spirit of the Constitution, and the Constitution is a minority protection that requires each representative to assess such a case. It's stuck on the Senter Party's side. As for the question of--I'm sorry, but I didn't understand the last question, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e888	I asked how it is possible to avoid a crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e893	Thank you very much! The only way to avoid a crisis is to make it clear that there are large-scale representatives in this room who have to take responsibility for assessing the outcome of a referendum.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e898	The centre party is still trying to present itself as a particular constitutional conservative party, but it is a completely false representation. At the latest in today's meeting, there are two proposals from the Centre Party, both of which bring together the Central Party's inauguration to amend the Constitution alone. So the Central Party's constitutional conservatism is that they want the changes they agree with, but they don't want the changes they disagree with. I think it's an attitude that most people have, including the Constitution. When it comes to knowing what the Central Party and the Central Party representatives think about respecting a referendum result, I understand that the Central Party as a party organisation has ceased to exist, because we will not get a response from the Central Party to what their representatives will do. So we have to turn to each one and ask what he wants to do before the referendum. Then my question is: will the Central Party as a party organisation instruct its representatives to clarify before a referendum what they want to do with the outcome - respect it or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e910	As I have repeated many times in this row change, it is such that the centre party as a party in advance will not bind its representatives to...
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e915	That's not what I asked!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e920	... to follow up on the outcome of the referendum. - Can the representative Foss repeat the question, since he interrupted me?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e925	Would the Party as a Party ask its representatives to clarify before a referendum if they would respect the outcome?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e930	That's what I'm saying. The centre party will ask its representatives to assess the outcome of a referendum. We've done that before, and we're still on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e935	The cord shift is over. The next speaker is Marianne Aasen Agdestein.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e940	It's Lars Sponheim first.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e946	I'm sorry! The next speaker is Lars Sponheim, then Marianne Aasen Agdestein.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e949	I'll stop slimming so much, so the president can see me. When I sit and follow this debate, I can't help but think back to the mood in 1994, when there was, in fact, a big and heated EU debate outside this Chamber, because we were going to have a referendum - and that was the most important debates - and it was also so that there was much discussion in this Chamber about EU issues. And that was very much the same questions that are being discussed today. I would almost believe that of all the hours spent discussing EU issues in parallel with the fact that there was a debate outside of the people before the referendum, there was probably a question of procedural rules, of constitutional changes, etc. the largest single issue discussed. So believing that one at any time - as long as the EU case is hanging over Norwegian policy as a topic to which one is constantly returning, and as most people think we will also come back through a new referendum at some point in time - can have this debate detached from EU issues, is to me totally unimaginable, and I don't think there are anyone who really believed it. Therefore, I am quite sure that we would not have these two amendments without the EU case being the largest and perhaps the most problematic political issue in Norway over the last decades. As you know, we have had two referendums on Norwegian membership of the European Union, and I believe, as I said, that at some point we will also have a new one. Well, one might almost say this -- if you're going to use football terminology -- that we're in the closet right now, but we don't know when we can get called out on the field of a new game. For the Left, it is important not to change the rules for formal decisions in what, at our discretion, is actually a continuous debate. That's a bit of a situational justification, but it's just as full of what politics is all about. This is not a professional legal seminar, it is politicians who meet to clarify these issues in a political situation. At my discretion, this applies regardless of whether some years pass between each time this case is updated in this formal decision-making process. I would also like to say that I have probably wondered how strategic one has been, when many of the debaters here who want changes to the Constitution have also drawn the EU issue into this debate. I am quite convinced that in view of the many people who are in doubt - and it has become a public matter that I myself am in that area - it is quite obvious that looking up this rule debate in this situation definitely does not serve the matter of tilting doubters to the yes-side. I am ready for a real fight on the political issues, but this is a debate that I think one should not have, even in the interests that I believe those who want Norwegian EU membership must stand for. I would like to say a little about the Left in this context, because the political history of the Left in the European Union is complicated. I remember that in advance of the EU debate in 1994 - then I was known as the only left-wing representative in this room - I guaranteed that the left was not going to be divided or split in the process at the time. Today, the Left is the party most divided among its voters and at its national meeting on the EU issue. Paradoxically, according to the story we know, the Left has lived well with this. We have our voters who are divided, maybe the way most people are divided. It also turned out that we were through both the two referendums that have been. Some of the reasons why it has been possible to live in harmony with this story have been that we have programmed and have as a very fundamental foundation - let's call it the Left's game rules in dealing with the EU case - to respect the referendum result. We've programmed it, it commits Left's candidates to it. I also want to be so honest and say that it's also the whole foundation that we can manage to have a partial harmony around different views in such a complicated and often emotional question like this. So to many of the lines that go back, and which may also be addressed to me, I want to be quite clear about it: we have this programmed, and it is absolutely fundamental for us that we are going to follow the referendum result in as big a national case as this will be, and in a case that will be as clear as this matter will be when one has conducted an EU fight and a referendum with the commitment and attention that we know this will have in Norway. But then it's that the constitution can also be relevant to other issues. That is why we believe that constitutional protection should exist as before. For us, it is part of the rules of the European Union that the people in a referendum take the real decision, which I have expressed, and not the formal one. All ten representatives of the Left will vote on the vote later today to vote against amendments to the Constitution, in particular on both proposals, but one may be more obvious. So there are ten representatives who have different views on the issue of EU membership. I would also like to say that the same ten representatives made it clear before the 2005 elections that, in this situation - perhaps between the second and third referenda - we did not want to contribute to any change in the rules, although everyone, when it had to be the right time, is ready to cast himself into a debate on EU issues and membership with different positions. I must honestly say that I think Professor Trond Nordby had a good point when yesterday he pointed to the purpose of the Constitutional Law on Treatment in two successive grandeurs, namely that voters should know the candidate's position in current constitutional cases and could take it into account when they vote. Then, in my opinion, it's serious if candidates say one thing before the election and do the opposite after they're elected, perhaps especially in that kind of case. The EU case is, in fact, a constantly topical issue in Norwegian policy, and we therefore believe that the rules should not be amended, especially by means of such a wide-ranging decision as a constitutional amendment. Therefore, the Left will vote against both of the proposed amendments to the Constitution § 93.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e970	Since the representative Sponheim decided that he would slim down, I can only say that slimming has both positive and negative sides.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e973	I'm not going to slim down-- if there's going to be an important topic here. In my view, this draft constitution is a proposal that seeks to remedy the potential conflict that is in the following: that the issue of EU membership according to political practice is decided by the people in popular agreement, against the fact that the waiver of sovereignty under Section 93 requires a majority of 3/4, which is a constitutional requirement. I agree with the representative Sponheim that we should not have this debate. But I have a completely different reason for that: if all parties and politicians were crystal clear at all times that a referendum on a Norwegian EU membership should be respected in any case, we would not have this discussion today. But the debate has shown why we need to change the Constitution on this point. The point is that the Central Party has said that they will assess how they will interpret the referendum and will free their representatives here in the Chamber. In 1994, the Socialist Left Party was unclear about the interpretation, and I do not feel sure that any representative from the SV will accept a possible yes in a referendum. That is why we have this debate. I find that very regrettable. In such an important issue as the question of possible EU membership, it is very unfortunate that it is really unclear whether Norway is following the referendum procedure or the constitutional procedure. Formal set applies to both parts. But really, the opponents of this change want both a referendum and a safety valve to stop the people's will if they themselves do not agree with the majority's opinion. Here we recognize Ole Brumms, yes, thanks, both. It is, as the representative Foss said so correctly earlier in this debate, 'intelligent and undemocratic' not to respect a yes in a referendum. Even more important than the Per-Kristian Foss and I mean it: I am convinced that the very people, most of them outside this house, also believe that such an action by a minority is undemocratic. I sincerely hope that our democracy will never experience a situation where this hall blocks a decision in a referendum. In addition, I would point out that, paradoxically, this proposal could have saved convinced no-representatives who, for reasons of conscience, had to vote no in the Chamber, because they could have leaned on a 'yes' majority in the secure assurance that 2/3 of the representatives would secure a decision that was in line with the referendum. On this basis, even after this debate, I have difficulties in understanding why this proposal does not receive the necessary majority in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e990	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e993	My question to the representative is as follows: If the people say yes to a surrender of sovereignty in a referendum, but the majority of the population set aside the result by agreeing to the no-point - how does the representative believe that this will be perceived in the people, even as she said in her statement?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e998	I think it would be perceived very negatively. I think that would put Norway in a very difficult situation that, no matter what one might think about the European Union case, would be problematic for our democracy. Fortunately, we'll have a choice at some point after such a referendum. I think the representatives who have chosen to vote against the majority of the people will have major problems. Also, those parties that do not respect a referendum, hopefully will notice a certain decline in disintegration.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1003	No one else has asked for the word in reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1006	Having followed this debate, I have a growing understanding of the representatives of the Progress Party who will actually vote against this proposal, despite the fact that the Progress Party is crystal clear on one thing: that a referendum should be respected. That means, at least with our eyes, that a majority is a majority, no matter how scarce it may be. We also have a strong division in the Progress Party in the vision of the European Union, in line with Lars Sponheim's colourful illustration. We have both active yes-representatives and active no-representatives. This is the case for a party that has become neutral. We fully respect it. But this is not the case. It's about what we as big-time representatives, elected by the people, should do after we've got a piece of advice from the people. But after hearing this debate - and in particular the representatives of the Central Party - I understand very well that there are many who, for that reason alone, will vote against this proposal, although I think it is going in the right direction. What this is about is that if we've held a referendum and the people should say yes, as elected representatives, we should be obliged to follow it, even though we personally disagreed with the conclusion that the majority drew. I have to say I want to challenge the Center Party, because I'm very confused about what they're saying and what they mean. They are obviously very much in order to hold referendums, in fact to a greater extent than only on the issue of sovereignty waiver relating to the EU issue. But at the same time, the representative, Breck, clearly states that they will reserve the right to interpret the result. Then the confusion becomes complete. What are you going to interpret? To interpret what 50.1 pst. Does it mean? If you want to interpret it from a regional voice or from a business voice, this will be a special thing. In my simple head, a voice is a voice, and when a majority has expressed their opinion, it should be obvious that the Storting followed it up, no matter what view you might have of it. That's why the Progress Party can actually imagine a binding referendum, because in binding referenda, the discussion that is now in the middle of it will be avoided. Then you don't have to decide whether or not to interpret a result - whether or not the Stortinget should respectfully follow the people. The undertone of some critics is that the Storting knows better than the people. If you're serious, why in the world do you have to hold referendums? It's exactly the same argument that the Central Party uses in relation to its second proposal, where they want more referenda, but where they will nevertheless reserve the right to interpret the result. What's the point of getting advice from the people, if it doesn't matter what the people say? That is why I believe that this debate should go a lot further in terms of the importance of having binding referendums. But then the national assembly of the country must also have such fundamental respect that the people, the voters, are wise enough to take the decisions they take based on the debate we have in front of a referendum. But if we believe that this hall as a whole is wiser than the average of the population, I understand the Central Party's argument. But it's, to say it carefully, immensely arrogant! We need a clean system. We need predictable game rules. If we mean anything by the use of referendums, we have to clarify it further. I think more parties should actually do that. I note that Svein Roald Hansen, who says that the Workers' Party will respect the populace, is nevertheless very sceptical about binding referenda. Why? It hangs unanswered. Why is it so complicated, if you want to get the people's advice anyway? And then I finally want to take up another dimension. This hall relinquishs sovereignty in many questions. We have relinquished sovereignty in a number of areas over several years, without the advice of the people, without the need for a 3/4 majority to make that kind of change. We've only done it by simple majority. We do that every time we join an international convention, an international agreement, which is essentially a denial of sovereignty, because Norwegian law is subordinated to international law. The remarkable thing is that in all of those cases, there are very few people in this room who are concerned about listening to what the people may think, getting their advice, or having a 3/4 majority behind such a change of laws in the Grand Duchy. Why, then, when we renounce sovereignty in many important areas? It is part of the living political debate today. When some of us have views on the development of Norwegian society, we're constantly getting in the middle of the flint from the government that you can't do yours, you can't do it because international conventions stand in the way. That's the living proof that we have given sovereignty if conventions and agreements stand in the way of decisions taken sovereignly in this hall. Then we've renounced sovereignty, and we've done it by a simple majority. Why is there so much better than in this particular question? I believe this is the most relevant topic that should be debated further. I can, for my part, inform you that the Progress Party will soon come forward with a proposal inviting the Stortinget to introduce binding referendums on these issues, because only then will we respect the decision that the people take when they are asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1025	There may be divided opinions as to whether it is typical Norwegian to be good. But there can be no shared opinion that it is typical Norwegian to be easily frightened. This morning I received an e-mail from the Norwegian Anarchist Council, which invited me to call about the Constitution. I would suggest that Norway is the only country on the globe where even anarchists have acute attacks of constitutional conservatism. The president of the Central Party, Åslaug Haga, said in the newspaper yesterday about the matter we are discussing today: ‘This was an unfair attempt on the part of the European Union to change the rules of the game. [[...]] It is on the frontier of a coup.’» I have to say that even to come from that edge this is a rather unusually gross-calibrated form of demagogy. No other comprehensive term exists for such a language. But what is alarming is that this comes from the same person who has himself proposed the amendment of Section 93, a proposal that - as I said in reply with the Central Party parliamentary leader - is far more radical in its constitutional consequences than the proposal that is almost presented here as an attempt on the coup d'état. I have to say it's a cross of thought for me that by using my right as a magnificent representative to make a proposal for a change to the Basic Law, I'm going to be exposed to a sheik who insists that I try to trick someone. This proposal has been dealt with point by point, in all respects, according to the section on which it is addressed, namely the Constitutional Act, § 112. It has been outside the public for four years, and it has been the subject of wide public debate. Among other things, I've had the pleasure of having a very broad debate with Professor Trond Nordby -- correct in the class struggle, which perhaps not all of the big business representatives are reading. But there has been an unusually broad debate, compared with other amendments to the Constitution. And then you imagine this is an attempt to take people on the bed! I must say that Åslaug Haga's statements in this matter update to me -- we have all our professional neurons, and I am, as some might know, theologian of origin -- a word in the Sermon on the Mount that talks about the splint and the beam. But here it's actually not a question of having a beam in the eye, it's a whole wooden warehouse. At the same time, one insists on being helpful to others in extracting the tile from their eye. It's amazing! So to the matter. The Norwegian Constitution does not say one word about referendums. Nevertheless, something of the first Biggest did in 1905 -- when we started for ourselves -- to initiate two referendums in a very short time. The majority has taken the initiative to ask the people for advice six times during the period 1905-2007. So it's created a constitutional practice that we all have the duty to deal with and think through: what's the Big One's made of habit? As far as I've been able to read the history of this, there's one point in which this custom is completely glistening clear and does not leave any sign of doubt: the Storting has every single time you put a question to the people for a vote, followed the people's advice. It has, as far as I know, not even raised questions earlier about whether the Storing assumes a moral and political obligation to do so when one chooses to ask the people at their advice. Our Norwegian constitution is unequivocally based on representative democracy, and I believe that we should maintain that. That's why I'm basically opposed to going over to a Swiss model and making use of binding referendums. Let me also point out that a unanimous committee, including the Centre Party, states in the recommendation that the provisions of Section 93 will be used more frequently and more frequently in the years to come, in many cases - in addition to any question of EU membership, if it should reappear. The entire committee therefore assumes that the general legislation contained in Section 93 will become more and more necessary, more and more topical in the coming years. As has been seen in this debate, Section 93 has been used in completely different matters than in the issue of Norwegian EU membership. And it has even had a decisive impact in terms of, for example, The EEA Agreement, that it chose to use § 93 in the way it did. The amendment proposed by the representative Christiansen and I take note of the fact that the Stortinget itself has interpreted Section 93 so that it can be used as well without obtaining the people's advice in advance and combined with it in order to obtain the people's advice in advance. Then is the simple logic behind our proposal: shall there have any consequences at all in the cases where the Storting decides to seek the advice of the people, unlike the cases where the Storing does not obtain the advice of the people? As far as I understand, there are very many in this room who insist on a principle no, it shall not make the slightest difference constitutionally whether or not the Greatness chooses to listen to the advice of the people. One party in this room - fortunately, it is all alone - will even have the right of the Constitutional Council to evaluate the people and take a position on whether the advice given by the people, once they have asked the people to use their voting rights, is a good advice, that is. is consistent with what you think - in which case you will follow it - or it is a bad advice - and in that case you will use a minority right to block the advice given by the people. You can have a lot of approaches to this, and today's debate has been about a lot of things other than Section 93 and about rules of play. But for me to look at-- and here I go back to what I started with, that's constitutional conservatism-- sometimes it's presented, when it's true, as if it's some kind of crime trying to improve the Constitution. The fact is that the Norwegian potion started already in the autumn of 1814, and since then Stortinget has almost been concerned with nothing but improving the Basic Law, to put it a little on the verge. The reason why we have one of the oldest constitutions in the world is because we've constantly improved it. Otherwise we would not have had a foundation law that is almost 200 years old. At my discretion, the adoption of the constitution proposed by the representative Christiansen and I would result in the Norwegian Constitution becoming much more consistent, for today the striking inconsistency between § 112 and § 93 is inconsistent. It will not make it easier or more difficult to notify Norway into the EU. At that point, I fundamentally disagree. But it's not about constitutional assessments, it's about political assessments. I am fundamentally convinced, if that situation should occur in one case, that the Storting is presenting a treaty for the renunciation of sovereignty of the people to an advisory referendum and a majority of the people say yes - that the national assembly in this country would block it, that I refuse to believe. Therefore, finally, our proposal is really a very good offer to those who are so intent on combating the surrender of sovereignty, whether by EU membership or other things, namely that they will be able to follow their convictions and vote against it without risk creating the constitutional crisis that will occur if this minority exceeds the majority of the people. It will make the situation much easier for those who have such a strong principle view, if you define the requirement of a qualified majority in the same way as the Constitution itself from the beginning to this day has defined requirements for a qualified majority, namely two thirds.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1058	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1062	In the representative of the payroll, there is an obvious inconsistency, on which I am asking for an explanation. If it is the case that 50.1 in one way or another was what to follow - and as I have explained it, I think it is wise - the representative of the wage should not have made a proposal of 2/3 majority, then he should have made a proposal of 50.1 in the Constitution and that a majority in an advisory referendum should automatically be followed. The representative has not done so. He obviously believes that there is a difference, and that there is a need for minority protection. At this point I then asked for an explanation. What is the real representative of the payroll? His whole article is about one thing, 50,1. He disregards the fact that in 1962 we chose, by two different paragraphs, Sections 93 and 112, a minority protection, which is contained in almost every country's constitutions - to the extent that one has a constitution; nor is it all the countries that have, but they also work. If the representative's salary could clarify exactly this misunderstanding in his own post, it would have been nice.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1071	Yes, with joy. My entire post did not trade, I confess, about 50,1-- I don't think I even mentioned the number. I think this discourse about 50,1 is quite meaningless. I assume that in any democracy based on majority decisions, a majority is a majority, whether large or small. When I have not made proposals for a simple majority, it is simply because for fundamental reasons I am not a party to binding referenda. I am not a follower of the Swiss model. And there's no inconsistency in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1080	I think the representative of Inge Wohnning made a largely excellent contribution, and I share most of his views on this matter. I say that, because it's very rare I can say exactly that. He stated that he refused to believe that anyone in this room would not respect a majority decision of a referendum. It may be a hypothetical situation, but if, in a referendum, the minority actually ends up with the party or parties that have blocked the implementation of a majority decision, we will face a situation that is locked down. Would the representative, in such a situation, be willing to reconsider his position in principle, from following the fact that a referendum is politically and morally binding, but not constitutionally binding, to perhaps accept making the referendum not only politically and morally binding, but also constitutionally binding?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1092	I thank you for the positive evaluation of my article. It is true that neither of us has control over which company we end up in at all times. But we might be happy about that. The answer to Mr. Hagen's question is: I still want to maintain my principle view. When I said that I refuse to believe it, it is because no one has seen such a situation so far. It's been a completely hypothetical discussion. And as the representative Hagen himself was in the middle of a line change earlier, someone argues that the political party system was not in place. That's what's known. I consider it this way -- as I said at the end of my post -- that the Center Party, which has an exclusive position like no other parts here, will of course be able to take the chance of voting no even if the populace has voted yes, but only if they are sure that it does not mean that the people's judgment is overturned. Then I don't think they'll take the chance.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1099	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1102	The Advocate General, Mr Djupedal, presented the matter on behalf of the Committee, and also on behalf of Mr SV, in an excellent manner. When I allow myself to speak on this matter, it is because I think we are discussing a matter that is far above other matters that we often discuss in this Chamber. We are talking about Norwegian maritime law. If we turn around and look at the men in the picture behind the president, it was a time before they got together at Eidsvoll in 1814, when we knew what it would say not to have Norwegian maritime law, we knew what it would mean to have given us so much maritime law that we were a poor country, a poor peasant society, that had owners, to use that word, that actually took the money and resources from us, while we were left with relatively modest resources. Then for many years we've done a good job, first and foremost in 1814, but also people here at Stortinget have worked hard to improve the Constitution, improve our maritime rights. Then we came to 1905, when we became a free society. What happened after 1905, yes, we all know that. Norway has evolved into one of the world’s best countries to live in — in some measurements even the world’s best countries to live in. That's because we've had a maritime court. A small country that lies all the way up to the North Pole, a small country with few inhabitants, has managed to do so. That's because we've had a maritime court. We have managed our own natural resources and our own decisions, for the benefit of the people. We have transformed natural resources into well-being, and we have made a number of other wise decisions precisely because we have been able to control it from this building, from Stortinget, which is Norway's main arena to assert maritime law and develop our policies. Then there is a proposal to reduce the majority from 75 pst. to 66 pst. And then you could say it's not that serious. Yes, it is, because if you want to give sovereignty, as I say, or reduce maritime law, you should be aware that the Stortinget, as the leading body in Norway, will have a broad majority behind such a decision. And a wide majority is 75 pst. 66 pst. is a much smaller majority. Therefore, I strongly disagree that we should make such a deterioration. I have also followed the debate here today, and it has been interesting. But even more interesting I think it is that part of our leading editors and commentators in the media have awakened to life in this matter. In the comments that at least I have registered, they agree with the SV and the other parties who support the vote proposal for a decision, that we must not do this. We don't have to reduce from three fourths to two thirds. They strongly justify the fact that the law of the sea is so important that we don't rotate. There must be a broad majority before it can be waived. I expect everyone in SV to go against this constitution proposal. Naturally, our group is asked freely in these kinds of questions, but no one has told me that they mean anything else. So I'm assuming that SV votes together.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1117	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1120	Self-determination is an interesting and important concept. What is a little difficult for me to understand is what practical consequences the SV parliamentary leader draws from his principle of self-determination. Now SV is one of three government parties in a government that administers a policy in which Norway has begged the EU to allow military forces to be made available to the EU response forces, together with EU Member States. It is historically a unique form of self-determination, but I have not understood that SV's opposition to the EEA Agreement in general, which has been there all along, is so fundamentally justified that it prevents the party from joining a government that is happy and satisfied to administer this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1125	The EEA Agreement is referred to here. I believe that the EEA Agreement is a problematic agreement in many areas, because it contributes to limiting our freedom of action. The EEA Agreement also has a number of advantages that make us, among other things, has market access. In other areas too, we have advantages. The fact that we always have a discussion about the EEA Agreement, I think, is great, but as long as SV is in government, we agree that we are behind the EEA Agreement and are trying to get the most positive out of it for Norway and for the people of Norway. But that these are problematic aspects of the EEA Agreement, I have no problem seeing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1132	In the change of line earlier in this debate, Mr Djupedal, the rapporteur of the matter, made it clear that he personally believes that the outcome of the referendum should be based and that he will feel obliged to follow it. As far as I understand, this is also reflected in the Socialist Left Party work programme, so that unless the SV's representatives at the nomination meeting reserve themselves against this part of the work programme, all the SV's representatives during the next major part of the process of ratification will vote in accordance with the majority of the referendum. Is that correct? Is it the SV's position that all SV's representatives will accept the referendum result, unless they have reserved themselves against the work programme at the nomination meeting?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1138	I think it's good that the representative Carl I. Hagen reads the SV's party program. We'll probably come up with a new party program later on. We create work programmes at regular intervals. This question may well be discussed again. But per year. Today, the interpretation that Carl I. Hagen refers to is absolutely correct. The answer to Djupedal is, of course, correct in what we have adopted in our programme. Now I think there are quite a number of years until the issue of EU membership becomes relevant. I kind of can't see that in my lifetime it's going to be the theme, at least. But what happens after that, gets the time to show, I think.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1145	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1148	Today, the Storting deals with a proposal to amend the Constitution § 93. The political core of the debate concerns the Fundamental Law’s rules of play on the EU issue. Proposals have been made to lower the threshold for renouncing sovereignty in the European Union. That proposal will be opposed by the Christian People's Party. The Christian People's Party is very clear on this matter. For us, there are more commitments. We will call about the Constitution § 93 as it is, we will confirm our refusal to change the rules of the game for the European Union, and we will stand by the promises made by our elected representatives before the last elections. The matter has many aspects, but it has one core, and it is the defence of the National People's Government. There shall be a high threshold to give way to Norwegian sovereignty, and elected representatives should keep what they promise in the case of constitutional changes. That is why the Constitution provides for a choice between the presentation of a draft constitution and its treatment. If there is any point at all in asking questions about how representatives or candidates come up with a constitutional proposal, it has to be linked to this kind of issue. In our view, we do not need a rematch on EU membership. In two referendums, the verdict of the people has been clear. In our view, experience has not weakened the people's no. According to the latest measurements, the no-majority is stronger than in the long term. Therefore, we do not need a rematch on membership of the European Union, as we see it. And we don't need a rematch on the Basic Law rules for decision. In 1972 and 1994, we followed the same rules. First, an advisory referendum was to be held, then the Stortinget was to deal with the matter. That's still the way it has to be. On the part of the Christian People's Party, there is no doubt that we will respect the people's vote on such a matter. We've got a program party. But there is a difference between committing to follow the people's vote and adopting in the Constitution that everyone else has to do the same. It is still allowed to act unwisely, but we think it is wise to follow a advice that you have asked for. I think we should be able to agree, even though we have different views about the Union, to maintain the rules of the game. Paragraph 93 of the Constitution was adopted when the matter of membership of the EEC came on the agenda in 1962. It was then decided that if the Storting must consent to the granting of sovereignty «in a restricted area», the Basic Law must apply § 93. It requires a known ‘majority of three quarters’ in the Stortinget. At the time, in 1962, there was, in fact, much less remorse for sovereignty. Today, when we are faced with a Union with significantly greater decision-making power over the Member States, which means far greater renunciation of sovereignty, the matter does not become less fundamental and less important. Then we should not lower the Basic Law threshold for membership. Before the last major elections, the candidates of Stortinget were asked in writing if they would vote against an amendment to the Constitution § 93. They were asked about the position of this concrete proposal that Stortinget is dealing with today. I think that the side of the popular government debate that we've had here in Stortinget today has been a little bit ahead. I would like to stress that I think it is a very important aspect that the promises made to the voters were so concrete - not in general form, but quite specifically linked to individual proposals - that the voters had to be able to rely on. It is only by breaking the promises made to the people before the 2005 elections that the proposal can be adopted today. If the People's Government is to have confidence, then elected representatives must also be allowed to keep clear promises. I am amazed that there have been doubts about this in several of the big parties in this room. For its part, the Christian People's Party will keep its word. Our representatives will together vote against the amendments as they have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1169	Paragraph 93 is of primary interest as an EU Paragraph of the Constitution. It is also clear from the position, which refers to the fact that when the paragraph was discussed in 1962 - with debate over three days, I have read - the provision was seen in the context of possible membership of the EEC, or the European Union, as it is now called. That is the way it was, and this is the way it is, regardless of how many people have wanted to uncouple today's debate from this as a question of how we behave in an EU debate. The proposers behind Document No. 12:7 for 2003-2004 believes that an advisory referendum removes the need to have a stronger minority protection in Section 93 than in Section 112, which lays down the rules governing the amendment of the Constitution. It's an opinion I don't share. The Constitutional Amendment we are dealing with today was promoted in the previous parliamentary term. Before the 2005 elections, there was a debate on the proposal, yes, even the representatives of big people, who have been involved, have stood before the voters with the position they had on the matter - although some seem to have forgotten what they said at the time. So the voters have had the opportunity to influence the composition of the Storing from the point of view of each of us. This is also the reason why proposals for changes to the Constitution must rest over a choice. An advisory referendum in the middle of the parliamentary term is now proposed to amend this whole procedure for matters of sovereignty waiver. Most would agree that the issue of Norway as a member of the European Union is a major issue than most of the decisions we take on amendments to the Constitution. It is equally full that an advisory referendum during the parliamentary term will be an adequate protection of minority protection in the Constitution and the sovereignty of the people. The proposers believe that our colleagues from 1962 did not do their job, as they then concluded that minority protection must be stronger when the Stortinget decides to transfer sovereignty without going the way to change the Constitution. As has also been pointed out in the debate, the debate on referendum was also part of the debate on the decisions taken in connection with the Constitution, although it was not in the same case and in the same debate in the United Kingdom. I feel that many people, regardless of their own view of EU membership, are quite opposed to the arguments behind this Constitutional proposal. I understand that I have also made an impression in this room. Then I also need to comment briefly on the assessment given by the majority in the vote on how an advisory referendum should be assessed in Stortinget. It's called: ‘The majority consider that representatives of the Grand Duchy are obliged to follow the advice of the people when the requirement for a qualified majority is reduced in line with the proposal.’ And I understand that this majority believes that 50.1 pst. must be followed, in any case. An advisory referendum provides a council, a very important council, but not a decision exempting the representatives of big business from their role in the decisions taken in relation to the obligations laid down in the Constitution. 50.1 pst. by the people, the Constitution does not lift the protection of minorities. This does not mean that the outcome of an advisory referendum is set aside, but it is the responsibility of the Stortinge to balance the advice given to them. For my part, I don't know if I want to go as far as the then head of the yes-page in 1972, Reidar Carlsen, who thought that the majority had to go up to 60 pst. and be roughly equally distributed throughout the country. But he had decided a point that I find it difficult to put completely aside, also in this debate. It's necessary to have said that too.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1191	The challenge in this room today is that both in the various parties between them and internally in some parties do not even fully agree on what the content of this matter is really about. Some call this an EU matter, and some call it a democratic matter. For me, this is a matter of democracy - it is a matter of principle of democracy. The reason why I take the floor is that I am one of those who, in very good company, have signed a few questions from No to the EU in 2005, and several who today will vote no, have asked if not an explanation, at least encouraged those who have done so to be rigorous and answer why they intend to do something as serious as breaking a promise that has been made about the Constitution. I am one of those who are today going to vote in favour of the Constitutional Bill. That means I'm breaking what I promised No to the EU in 2005. So I would say -- not to minimize what I promised, or to minimize the matter -- that it might well be that I did it to better knowledge, that I did it out of lack of knowledge or what it was. The explanation of that is not the most important thing. What matters to me is that there is not one voter in Rogaland who does not know that I agree with the EU - if this is an EU matter. I voted in favour in 1994, and I am going to vote in favour each time there may be a vote. Nor is there one voter in Rogaland who has voted for me who does not know that I want to take over what the referendum decides. There's not one voter who's in doubt about it! But I understand that people who have replied that they do not want to change the Constitution, and so have notified it to No to the EU, it is difficult today to vote yes in the Chamber. Because there has been a considerable pressure on us who have responded yes to No to the EU, both from the media and not least from people at home who expect to do what they have said. Then I just have to say that I have received some e-mails, on the same line as many others. But the main essence of the e-mails that I get from home from those who are angry is that they are most angry that I initially say yes to the EU. It is No to Europeans who are angry at my EU position. And when that day comes for my political accounts to be settled, it's going to be done to my voters and to the party and the party program that I'm elected to. This shall not be done in relation to No to the EU. It is not certain that this is a good argument, but I also want to say that there are none of my voters who have wondered what I think about Section 93, except No to the EU before 2005, during the election campaign in 2005 or after 2005. I turn, or do not keep my promise that someone thinks is not shaved. But respect for the people, which I believe this matter is about, weighs so heavily on me that I promise it over the promise I then break on this question. That's why I take that burden, or whatever it is now, to be hanged out as a breaker or other thing, even by professors who have said that by just saying what I'm saying now, I've broken the Constitution. But there are other professors who say the opposite. There's some sort of explanation - probably not good enough for some people - but I would still stand on the platform here and announce that I have said something in 2005 that I'm not going to hold today, and try to justify why. I have a few considerations about a few things that have been said in the hall today. The representative, Mr Breck, said in his statement that those who vote in favour today do so in order to facilitate Norway’s entry into the EU. So that's not what I want. There is no doubt that I want Norway into the EU. That's what I wanted to do in 1994, and I'm still going to do, but in this case, I want you - if it ever happens - to have easier respect for a little yes-majority, if any. That is what I believe is the content of this matter. There's someone in this room who's decided that no matter if a small majority says yes, they're going to say no. I would therefore like the representative Breck to answer the question from the representative Foss and others about what the Central Party will do with its representatives in informing the people about what to do with a possible outcome of a referendum. I understand that in the Central Party the representatives stand free, but it must be the law of a representative who is in elections, to tell what one thinks in one's head about respecting the will of the people. I wish it came out here today. Then I would like to say in the end that, in the case of a binding referendum or not, as the representative Hansen explained, in the Labour Party there has been no discussion about whether to have it, but we have a party programme in the Labour Party which is quite clear that one should respect the will of the people. Now the representative, Siv Jensen, has announced that there will be a proposal. However, if this Constitutional amendment is voted down in the Grand Duchy today, as it appears to be, I am sure that there will be a debate on a binding referendum. I am not going to tell what I might think about it, but in that case I would like to welcome that debate, because we will not be able to live with it, I believe, what is perceived as such a clear injustice in relation to the aspect of referendum, unless the Constitution is amended in line with the majority proposal that exists today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1217	I also think that this case has had a strange development. The No to EU organisation has made this an EU matter. In this case, a minority in this House will vote against the majority of the people's council in a possible EU vote. I think that's something you have to think well about. I was also one of the representatives who, in the context of the 2005 election campaign, were injured by - I repeat: were injured by - answering some questions from the organisation No to the EU. I then replied in accordance with the Progress Party which had voted until 2005 in respect of proposals similar to those we are now debating. I have felt very uncomfortable with the campaign launched by the No to EU organisation against some representatives who actually took the time to answer the questions sent by the No to EU organisation in 2005. There are a lot of big business representatives sitting here today who didn't take the time to answer those questions for different reasons. But we, who took the time to answer the questions, should therefore be used in a campaign for vision that we in no way share. The organisation No to EU may note the following: The Organisation No to the EU does not need to contact the undersigned any more.The Organization No to the EU notices that the signatories are in favour of an active Norwegian European policy.The Organization No to the EU notes that the undersigned considers that it is totally undemocratic if a minority in the Grand Duchy is to block a yes majority of the people.The Organization No to the EU notices that the undersigned does not wish to be exposed to the type of agricultural detention that the organisation is now conducting to representatives responsible for its electors. It is possible that I had voted today as I promised the organisation No to the EU at the time, but the opposite campaign the organisation No to the EU has now launched against the representatives who took the time to answer the questions asked by the organisation has made me change my mind and follow the majority of the Progress Party Group and vote in favour of the proposal today. I feel that it is the most democratic thing to do in relation to part of the views that I believe some representatives of the no-side stand for.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1248	This has been an interesting and useful debate, but he has certainly not been extra claratory. Multiple fans of changes in accordance with Document No. 12:7 has claimed that this has nothing to do with the EU, that there is a fundamental question attached to the Constitution. Then they have continued to argue precisely on the basis of relationships directly related to the issue of Norwegian EU membership. At least we have to say that Saka has a significant EU relevance. I have also not received an answer - because I have philosophized a little about it - to the background of the proposal in Document No. 12:7. There are actually two options here: Do the proposers want to make it easier to get Norway into the EU? Or did they want to make it harder to prevent Norwegian EU membership? Those who have been closest to answering this question are probably the representatives of Aasen Agdestein and Wage. They've been pretty clear lately. We have had two advisory referendums on Norwegian EU membership. The premise for these reconciliations, especially for the latter, has been quite clear that the vast majority of the representatives of big business would respect the outcome of the referendum. There is no indication of a weakening of such thinking, rather the opposite. The giving of sovereignty shall be high. The ultimate responsibility should lie in this Chamber. No new situation has occurred that requires a change to the Basic Law at this point. Earlier today, reference is made to the fact that an advisory referendum already in 1962 - albeit in another matter than a constitutional case, in particular in the case of application for membership of the EEC - was an important premise in the file. I share these views as, among other things. Djupedal, Advocate-General, has performed in a brilliant manner. I don't see the need - and it won't be wise - to change the rules of the game, and I will absolutely support that we maintain the parallel between the use of the Basic Law § 93 and § 112 in the event of a waiver of sovereignty.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1261	It must be difficult for a nation to give sovereignty. It is therefore necessary that there is a very high degree of consensus if this is to be done. Civil rights are important. In many ways it is right to say that the Constitution is a maritime declaration. When the EU case was on the map, the possibility of relinquishing sovereignty was updated. When Section 93 of the Constitution was adopted in 1962, it was in view of having the right of registration in the EEC, as it was then called. It was clear that registration in the EC is, in reality, a constitutional change. The debate on Section 93 of the Constitution was held in March 1962, and it lasted for three days. The paragraph opens, as you know, that the Storting should be able to give sovereignty in a limited area. But it's going to take 3/4 majority. It's interesting to notice that Kjell Bondevik thought it was too small, and demanded a 5/6 majority. Per Borten then took the floor on behalf of the Center Party. There was--I was just saying, the whole group against the section on sovereignty renunciation. He said that the Central Party would subsidize Bondevik's proposal. The Constitutional Paragraph was adopted. That was 35 votes in favour of Mr Bondevik's proposal. This paragraph was used for the first time in the EEA Agreement in 1992. As I mentioned earlier, it shall be difficult to renounce sovereignty. The Constitution shall have a stabilising effect. We have representative government in Norway. In other words, it's the representatives of big business who decide, and that's the last word. It is possible to understand that there are strong forces that want to grant some kind of derogation for the EU issue. I have seen that there are several people who now want a change of section 93, and they call it a democratization. That's probably what we're talking about. It is others who believe that it is really a wish for a binding referendum. However, binding referenda has been rejected by the Storting as late as 1992, by reference to the representative regime of the people. We have, as everyone knows, had some advisory referendums in this country, the last on the EU, in 1994. The Central Party then chose to rely on the Constitution and the fact that it is the Storting - and not a referendum - that has been given power and authority to decide the EU case. The party relies on the Constitution, which has a strong minority protection in cases of this kind. If an advisory referendum is perceived and interpreted as binding on the representatives of big business, a central rule of play laid down in our constitution will disappear. Of course, I'm thinking about minority protection. I would like to mention that Professor Wyller strongly supports this view. The basic law's minority protection is precisely to prevent such changes based on a small majority. Major, important and fundamental issues such as the EU case are not to be decided on the basis of a population figure that can quickly change. And that's the status quo -- that's the current situation -- that needs protection. Minority rights are important. The proposal that is on the table today, as I see it, will reduce minority protection in the Constitution. As I understand it, representatives of the various parties have been allowed to claim what they did in their message to the voters before the 2005 elections. By the way, it was just supposed to be missing in a Constitutional case. Now, the Eirin Kristin Sund Center is calling for clearer opinions on what it meant to be set free in a matter like this. She was also very open that she had changed her mind since 2005. There's reason to respect the one who stands up with such a vision. She further said that her voters knew exactly what she voted for, and what she would stand for. It's fine. I feel like you have a contract with the voters. The voters need to know what we stand for. It's very easy to say, ask the people, listen to the people. But 50.1pst. becomes too simple. Here one has to think both district and electoral participation. The EU case is going to come up long after my time, so it's not going to be relevant, but if it had been, I would have told my constituents my view of how I would vote after a referendum. My constituents were to know where they were taking me.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1282	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1285	The representative Anne Enger said in his post--no, Inger Enger, sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1293	It's a normal delay.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1299	Yeah, but that's not good. I'm sorry. The representative Enger said that there were shared views about what is democratic. I agree, to the extent that one can discuss in the knowledge and the broad what democracy is, but what I am asking is what she means by that statement in this context. Obviously, a representative democracy is what this magnification is. At the same time, she is obviously critical of referendums and the results it produces. Then I wonder why the Central Party is proposing to have even more referenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1306	I'll start with the last one first. As I have understood the suggestion of Åslaug Haga and Marit Arnstad, there are referendums around other types of sovereignty rebuttals. Without talking to them about it, I think they think of things similar to the EEA Agreement. I guess it's going to be something similar to it, but I think that's the starting point for what they meant.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1311	Then I wonder if those referenda will be respected if there is a scarce majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1316	It'll still be advisory, so you probably have to think back in the sequences then, too, and see what your own district thought about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1321	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1324	I just have some comments, but first: now I've heard the speeches, and I came to think of the old German chancellor Konrad Adenauer, who said: we all live under the same sky, but we don't all have the same horizon. There are different understandings of what are rules of play, and what is democracy, and that must be it. But first of all, I would like to say that this debate has confirmed that the central party as a party will not clarify whether they respect the outcome of the referendum. This shall be done by each representative. They shall interpret it, and it is certainly not certain that they will tell whether they will respect the outcome, possibly according to which criteria they will interpret the outcome. Inger Enger confirms that she will. It's now a beginning. The representatives of the central parties have proposed that we should have a mandatory but advisory referendum. It should be to avoid the crisis that would arise if this great crowd made a different decision than the people had advised. I repeat the call for an explanation of how it can help to avoid a crisis. For the situation today is that it is in this room the responsibility lies. And that's where it's supposed to be. We have an independent responsibility to assess the matter that lies ahead of us, in such a situation, but it is precisely if this collapse or a minority of this magnitude blocks what the people have said the crisis would occur. One can imagine the situation of the government in 1994 despite a limited number of no-majorities having brought the matter before the Grand Duchy, and three-quarters here in the Chamber had notified us into the EU. I think the constitutional crisis, the political crisis, would be similar if the opposite had happened. So here, the Central Party's leading politicians have promoted a constitutional proposal with a reason that's quite demanding. Or, it's quite demanding to see the relationship between the proposal and the rationale. It's hard to see that it's going to solve the dilemma it's starting from. Lars Sponheim said, both in the line change with the undersigned and in his post, that he was amazed that we, who want Norway to become a full member of the EU, are addressing this matter. He thinks it's bad tactics. Yes, it is possible that this is bad tactics. However, what is at stake in the European Union's Norwegian policy is the fact that we have, in reality, given more sovereignty than anyone thought in 1994, to an organisation where 27 of the Member States are our neighbours. So we've given a great deal of sovereignty to an organization we're not a member of. That the fact in Norwegian policy is only reduced to a tactical question, I find very regrettable. Siv Jensen asked why I was skeptical of binding referendums. I am not going to go up any difficult debate on referendums, but I would like to say that we have a representative democracy, where referendums have been used in situations where there has been political agreement on it, but that is without it having a foundation in the Constitution, in the sense that one should have it, and possibly how to handle the vote. It has been left to policy. I believe that referenda is a rather demanding element of representative democracy. There are few questions that are suitable for a yes or no answer. Let me say, not to be misunderstood: the EU case is of that kind of case. Let me say it this way: there shall be coherence between those who win the referendum and those who bear the consequences of that victory. And you could say that it's kind of a question of the kind: are we going to have alcohol sales in this municipality? Are we going to have neuralism in this municipality? Should we report Norway to the EU? But if you, for example, to issue the question of introducing property taxes to a referendum in a municipality, it is not certain that it is those who have responded no, who bear the consequences that the municipality has less money in the municipal register. It's the sick and the old who need a sick home, who carry that consequence, and who may have voted yes. That is why referendum is quite demanding. Besides, if we look at the world around us, at the countries that use referendum a lot, at least it's not the most progressive countries in the world. Switzerland was quite late in voting for the woman and for the last to become a member of the UN. That's why it's always surprised me that those who think they're very radical have been so busy using referendums in different contexts. Referendum is a preserving element of politics. Finally, Mr. Inge Ryan started from the masters behind us, who had felt on the body what it means not to have a right of self-determination, and who had thus guaranteed us a constitution that gave us the right of self-determination. In 1905 we gained a free society and became an independent country. He pointed out that the reason we've become so rich and prosperous is that we've managed our natural resources and transformed them into well-being. That's right, that, with the small parentheses, one of our important natural resources is historically fish. And we don't manage it all by ourselves. We have to take some account of the Soviet Union and Iceland in terms of fishing resources. So it's not just the right to self-determination -- it's the combination of self-determination and much that's important, and the interaction with our neighboring countries. And without us also being integrated into a growing world trade, I think Inge Ryan, as an old nutritionist, agrees with me that we would hardly have had the well-being we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1350	The next speaker is Per Olaf Lundteg, then Inge Ryan--no, sorry, Inge Wohnning!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1356	There is no doubt that this draft Constitutional Amendment aims to make it easier for the political elite to have our country fully integrated into the European Union. After two defeats and a long-standing and compact majority in the Norwegian people, a proposal to change the Basic Law's rules of play through this Constitutional Amendment proposal is made. To date, we in Norway have largely agreed that it is a strength for a country - for Norway - that the rules of the game are not changed in the course of the debate on a matter. In this proposal, the tradition is at stake. What are the trends in today’s EU? After the majority in France and the Netherlands rejected the EU’s federal constitution and rejected more of the EU’s centralized policies, the people in power in Brussels had to go through another sentence. After many long meetings, Brussels presented a proposal to replace the Constitution with a Reform Treaty. They removed some symbolic items from the Constitutional Law, such as the flag of the EU State and the anthem. But flags and anthems are still present at ceremonies and summits. They changed the title of the project without changing the political content. Most point out that the Reform Treaty is almost 100 pst. in the same way as the rejected EU basic law. The supremacy of the EU has been a bit bit bit by bit since the Treaty of Rome came in 1957. Once the new Treaty, or the Constitution, has been approved and entered into force next year, the EU is a legal entity under international law. This means that the EU can make agreements with international organisations such as the UN and the WTO and accede to international conventions in the same way as a nation state. Paragraph 93 of the Constitution provides that the Stortinget can transfer sovereignty in limited areas to international organisations of which Norway is a member. The draft Constitutional Amendment will water this EU paragraph down to 2/3, in order to facilitate Norway’s participation in the EU. It is not possible to explain the purpose. Further clarification is needed here. Firstly, what is it like to ‘transfer sovereignty in limited areas’? I would argue that through the EEA Agreement, we have transferred more than limited sovereignty to the EU. Both in the Grand Duchy, in the counties and in the municipalities, our elected bodies have declared more than limited sovereignty to the EU, and not least the ESA, which is interfering in most of the Norwegian policies and thus the decisions of the majority of the population. The Soria Moria declaration is not exactly the dream project of the European Union. The figures from the Municipal Councils’ Central Association show that about 60 pst. the decisions taken by the Norwegian Municipal Councils are affected by the EEA Agreement. About 70 pst. by the EU Directives approved by the EEA Committee have an impact on the municipal sector. The regulatory framework of the EEA Agreement between the EU and the three EFTA countries now covers more than 15 000 pages. Much of this is procurator language and thus little understandable. The legislation frameworks the service sector and affects almost all the roles of a municipality. The right of veto or of reservation for EU decisions is not a reality in our housekeeper's contract with the EU. All power is no longer in this room, but in Brussels, outside popular governance and control. Full participation in federal Europe will deprive us of even more sovereignty. Then it's not useful to change 3/4 to 2/3. No, then one has to change the Constitutional requirements for limited sovereignty. The EU in 2007 has evolved into something much more than in 1994, not to talk about the EEC in 1957. Those who support the proposed amendment to the Constitution and those who support the proposal must go out and look their voters in the eye and say clearly that their intention is to remove Norwegian sovereignty. Perhaps they can at the same time go in to remove the Norwegian Constitution, which stands in the way of EU participation and thus the final victory for global market liberalism. A few years ago, Mrs. Julie Christiansen, who supported the proposal, stated that she would not be in favour of Norwegian participation in the EU if the EU developed into a state formation. The EU calls the new constitution of a treaty. What is a constitution, and what is a treaty? A constitution is a legal document that regulates the relationship between a country and its citizens. A treaty is a legal document governing agreements between States. There are two widely differing legal aspects. Does Julie Christiansen see developments in the EU, and does she have the same negative position on the EU as a federal state formation today? In that case, why would she change the Constitutional Law to make it easier to join a project that she does not want? The EU combines the concepts of Constitution and the Treaty in an unsustainable way. Is the EU to be an international organisation or federal state formation? It can't be both. The EU is at a crossroads and must make a clear choice. Today’s situation confuses European citizens, but also the political elite in the EU Member States. That may be the intention, in order to make people believe that the EU should continue as an international organisation through a treaty, while the reality is a state formation according to the model of the United States. Let us see the reality of the EU: no international organisation has its own currency, its own parliament, its own president and is building up a military power - to take some examples. These are essential elements of a country. Part of this strategy is to take from people the right to a constitution or treaty that is understandable, which can create a broad and open debate and eventually end up with a referendum in all EU countries. With its anti-democratic attitudes, the European empire builders are convinced that only the political elite has the ability to intervene and make the right decisions. These are the challenges that Christopher Lasch well described in his book The Elitten Rebellion and the Treachery against Democracy. Here at home we have people with the same attitudes. We also find them behind the draft Constitutional Amendment. Do the proposers have any clear opinions on where the EU is moving in the near future - a treaty-based international organisation or a constitutional federal state? How can the EU rely on a treaty that has provisions that make an international organisation a legal person and thus a state formation? Many people see that this is a political trick game against people in Europe and Norway. Can we not agree that any new referendum on our relationship with the EU will be about something more than membership of an international organisation? What we should possibly take our position on at a later stage, no one can say in clear terms today. It is not useful to come with yes or no to be in the good company in Brussels. First, the political fog must lighten in Brussels, and the EU must stand up with its future plans in clear and intelligible text. With these comments, I would recommend that the representatives of Storting in this round – and I would like to emphasise this round – vote against the proposal for amendments to the Constitution § 93.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1388	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1391	The opposition to the EU is strong with the representative Per Olaf Lundteg, as this post has just confirmed. I also notice that the representative believes that the EEA Agreement is a housekeeper contract, while his party leader, Haga, has stated that the EEA Agreement is an excellent cooperation platform. But my question is about something else, which is what we are discussing today. I wonder what it is that the representative Per Olaf Lundtigen should be able to interpret a yes result in a referendum on the European Union so that he will vote in such a way that he will ensure that Norway becomes a member of the European Union.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1398	I have the same point of view on what Anne Enger so elegantly articulate in the debate in 1994. It is absolutely necessary that referendums be able to be interpreted by the final decision here in the Grand Duchy, and what we want to emphasise is the amount of participation, the majority in case of Norway's entry into the Union and the distribution of votes across the country. It is quite obvious that if my voters in Buskerud unisont choose Per Olaf Lundtägen on the Stortinget to prevent Norwegian EU membership - well, I have a mandate that I have to take into account in the assessment that I have to make.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1404	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The President will recall Section 36 of the Rules of Procedure, which states that the other posts of the representative should not exceed 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1409	Thank you, President. I'll be able to hold it. I am also grateful that the President instead introduced me in a way that gave me the power to speak on behalf of all those who are called 'None' in the Chamber. It's an opportunity I'm gripping with enthusiasm! The year 2008 is called the Year of Diversity, and it must be noted at the bottom of this debate that the Stortinget has at least made its contribution to creating diversity in a debate and to discussing issues that are not at all on the agenda of the matter. For me, this whole question really boils down to a very simple constitutional issue: it is made clear through this debate that when the Stortinget adopted § 93 in 1962, the theme of referendum was neither explicit nor implicit. That theme has been introduced through later customs. It also explains why § 93 has never calmed down in the sense that everyone has been aware that we have entered into the Constitution a completely striking inconsistency with regard to the relationship between the Basic Law's own principles for changing the Constitution itself on the one hand, and the Constitution's requirements for an exceptionally qualified majority for dealing with a particular type of case. I remember that these amendments over the years have come both from what is called the yes-side and the no-side, as is the case today, where the Central Party has submitted its bid for a change to Section 93. Thus, both parties to the EU dispute have seen that today’s constitution is inconsistent. The question is, are we not going to live on with it, or are we going to try to create a greater consistency in the Constitution? A unanimous committee notes that the problem that Section 93 is about is going to become more and more frequent to look at the Storting's agenda in the years that come, simply because the world looks like it does, and because the concepts of national sovereignty in today's world have to change. It would, of course, be a capitulation for democracy if one were unable to take the consequences of internationalisation and the need for binding international agreements which necessarily restrict the traditional understanding of national sovereignty. You have to be almost blind to not see this. There is no one in the committee who has been blind, because this has been written in the setting. Nevertheless, there are those who insist on holding a debate as if this were an EU paragraph and as if it were nothing other than the question of Norwegian membership of the EU. It's also conspicuously inconsistent. The Basic Law does not provide rules for individual cases, the Basic Law is generally formulated and must be generally formulated, and Section 93 is also generally formulated, of course. When an international treaty involving the waiver of major or minor elements of sovereignty is to be dealt with, the Storting is at all times free to consider whether or not it is to be put to an advisory referendum. The question in the future is simply: does the Storting decide in a few cases to put the question to an advisory referendum and the people are asked a very precise question that can only be answered yes or no - that is, a much more precise question than in a general election - and should it be without consequences for the definition of a qualified majority? I can assure the Storting that if the proposal does not reach a constitutional majority in the vote today, the train will not have left. The next big thing is to get the offer one more time, and I have so much confidence in Stortinget's spirit skills that I believe that at some point you will realize that this is necessary to create order in the Norwegian constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1420	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1423	It's always interesting to listen to the representative's payoffs, both in terms of principle and history, and I realize that this question is not debated today, but that we'll come back to it later. There is a question that I think it might have been helpful to clarify in relation to the pay repeated statements that the counterparty here represents some form of inconsistency. When the Constitutional Debate was held in 1962, it went over three days at the beginning of March. At that time, as far as I have brought on the pure, the referendum was not a topic, but one month later, on 12 April, the committee, the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee at the time, this with a referendum. So this question of referendum had been raised during March. It is difficult for me to understand that it could have been found after the Constitution was passed in 1962. Is it possible for the representative to clear it up for me?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1430	No, not otherwise than that I note that the representative Lånke is now correcting his presentation from his main post and admits that this was not a topic in the debate on the paragraph in 1962. Then we agree on that point. If the Storting saw, after finishing the treatment of the new Constitutional Paragraph, led a debate on this, it really only substantiates my main point of view, that then one might realize that something had been done inconsistently, because one had opened up two alternatives, namely that the Stortinget decided the matter on its own without questioning the people, or that the Stortinget decided the matter after having asked the people. Had you been aware of that when you made the paragraph in 1962, I am absolutely convinced that then you would have taken the consequences and defined the requirement for a qualified majority in two different ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1437	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1440	The representative in his last post said that this case does not have a background on the issue of EU membership, but it has to do with cleaning up the so-called inconsistency in the Constitution. In any case, this case is based on the discussion of EU membership. It has been raised beyond any doubt that the yes-side will not have EU membership as a theme for decision-making. They therefore propose a shortcut to EU membership through this proposal. The proposal allows a large majority to apply for EU membership, carry out negotiations and adopt EU registration by a two-thirds majority following a referendum of barely yes majority. The Constitution requires, as we all know, a three-quarters majority. The proposal deprives a minority of the right to influence the composition of the Storting through an open EU debate before a choice. Such a proposal cannot be characterised as anything other than a weakening of minority protection in the Constitution and a modification of the rules of the game. It has also pointed out Åslaug Haga in a comment in a newspaper the other day, and it sees the representative as the shikanne. I just have to point out that there are few who are as good as the pay to characterize other people from this pulpit. There are differences between binding and advisory referenda. A Council does not transform elected representatives into voting machines without a separate responsibility for decisions to be taken by the Stortinget under the Constitution. EU registration requires a qualified majority. A qualified majority is not required to continue with the situation we have today. I would like to say that if EU citizens want a greater degree of pure majority rule, they can support a system of binding referendums. Then the decision is moved from the Storing to the people. The Group of the Party of European Socialists, as they have said in this Chamber, will make proposals for binding referendums, but this has always been opposed by the Right and the Labour Party. Then to the proposal from Arnstad and Haga again. The proposal, as I said in my previous post, intends to counteract as far as possible the locking of the decision-making system. This can best be prevented by explicitly marking the Constitutional exclusive competence of the Storting. The fact that we propose to legislate both for a referendum to be mandatory in § 93-related cases is one, and the other is that it should be advisory. That is the basis for the proposal by the representatives of the Central Party, and that is also the basis for our position on how to interpret a referendum, which several of the representatives here have been involved in today's debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1451	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1454	Since the representative Breck had problems answering the questions asked after his main post, I would like to repeat my question. Is it true that when the Central Party makes a proposal for a constitutional change, it is not changing the rules, but if others make a proposal to do the same, is it changing the rules? So is it that there are very special rules for the Central Party regarding the freedom to change the Constitution? As I pointed out in my speech, the constitutional consequences of the proposal made by the Central Party are far more drastic than the constitutional consequences of my proposal. I noticed that the representative Lundtigen just indicated that the EEA Agreement is also unconstitutional. Is it possible, perhaps, for the Central Party's parliamentary leader to clarify how the Central Party can sit in a government that bases its policy on something that is unconstitutional?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1461	Of course, as the representative stresses here, it is clear and very good that different representatives from different parties have the opportunity to make proposals for changes to the Constitution. It just had to be missing, to say it like that. There is no difference here in terms of qualification seen from the centre party. We are, of course, concerned with changing the rules in the direction we think is right, just as the representative on the pay side and others are concerned about changing the rules in the direction that they think is right. It is an honest and democratic matter, let it be said once and for all. Of course, we don't want rules for the Center Party other than those for the Right Party or the other parties in the Stortinget. As regards the EEA Agreement, everyone is aware that the Centre Party is opposed to the EEA Agreement we have concluded. We were opposed to entering into that agreement. We have now, in the situation we are today, accepted to reign with the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party on the basis of the EEA Agreement, but also on the basis of an agreement that we should leave the EU case in order.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1468	I have two questions for Lars Peder Breck, one of them that I did not get asked in the previous line change: Can he give me a definition of what are § 93-relevant matters, which he therefore wants a mandatory referendum on? Are there the issues where there is a waiver of sovereignty that is not only international law, and, in that case, can he suggest some things that have previously been of a nature that he wants to vote for? For § 93-related matters, most importantly, there is a political issue in any context. So to a more important question: Today's debate has made it clear that all the other parties assume that if there is an advisory referendum, one will politically and morally follow up the referendum result in the Stortinget. The central party alone is to reserve the right to disregard the people's decision in a referendum. Does Lars Peder Breck feel comfortable with such a situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1476	The representative asked Hagen for a definition of § 93-related cases. I just want to stress that there are issues that Stortinget obviously has to consider relevant to referendums in that case. It is a political matter that Hagen also points out here. In our opinion, for example: The EEA case should be assessed for referendum. With regard to the question of follow-up to the referendum, we have said several times in this debate that, in line with the Constitution's minority protection, the representatives of the Central Party reserve the right to assess a referendum both on the basis of the majority's size and on the basis of the electoral contract that each representative has in his area. Participation in elections is also an element that needs to be assessed in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1483	I just want to repeat the question: Lars Peder Breck feels comfortable with the fact that the Senter party is the only party that does not come with a crystal clear statement that they will respect the referendum result, but in retrospect make some unknown interpretation requirements about possible participation around the country, etc.? Does Lars Peder Breck feel comfortable here being completely isolated in his resistance to accepting a decision by the people of Norway in a referendum?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1488	I am sorry that I did not answer that question from the representative Hagen in the first round. Yes, I feel comfortable with that position. I feel that this is right in relation to our interpretation of the intentions of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1493	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1496	As the rapporteur on the matter, I feel the need to make some final remarks on this debate, because it is the case that the Norwegian people, and in particular Parliament, never allow the opportunity to take an EU debate. This has also been a debate on the EU, and it is in many ways wise, and in many ways also all right, but let me stress that §93 is not an EU paragraph, § 93 is a paragraph that has been introduced into the Constitution to have the opportunity to give sovereignty. I am very pleased that a joint committee in the introduction to the setting says that the issue of sovereignty waiver will probably be applied more frequently in the future than now. Of course, there may be EU-related issues that come under Section 93, which I will not rule out, but there is a custom for dealing with these kinds of procedures that make Section 93, in the form it now has, and hopefully will continue to have after today's debate, will focus on other types of issues. There may be climate issues, and there may be human rights issues. We're getting closer and closer together internationally. Norway is part of an international world and will have an independent desire as a nation to give up sovereignty, precisely because it will be in the interest of our own country and also in the interest of other countries. That is why - when we have discussed § 93 a long morning here in Stortinget - very many of the contributions have been about the EU. This is not unnatural, because § 93 is used only once, and it was linked to the EEA Agreement, and in modern times we have had referendums only twice, both in relation to the EU. Let me just underline this point, namely that we are discussing Section 93 on a principle basis. That means that hopefully this paragraph, let me stress it, could be applied more often all the time we need more international cooperation in many of the major challenges facing Norway and the world. Let me also say that I am pleased that the representatives of the various party groups are being asked freely on this question. The EU issue, which has been affected by many, will, of course, come back at some point in the political debate. And I must admit that I do not agree with those who share my view of the EU, that it will be easier to get Norway into the EU with such a paragraph, if the proposal had been given a majority in this House. In any case, the EU question is not easy. We who are opponents of the EU hope that we will win a new battalion when that day comes, and we hope so too. Everyone knows it's not an easy one, and shouldn't be an easy one. Paragraph 93 in the form it has today, or if the proposal for a presumption should possibly have a majority today, will in no way make it easier to have a majority for the European Union, simply because it is an independent political issue that has a completely different force from a paragraph of the Constitution. But it is clear that it is being updated, and I must say that the motivation of those who have promoted this proposal is probably in such a direction that, in an imaginary situation, it would be easier to get Norway into the EU. But fortunately that's not the case, fortunately it's that this question is decided by the people in a referendum. This means that it is not the Constitution as such that will decide whether Norway will become a member or not, there will be another procedure around. But when I say that I'm happy that the representatives are free, it's because in these kinds of questions it's right that each representative settles this with himself and his party and his constituents, simply because this is a principle political question about a procedure of a waiver of sovereignty that has a different character to a traditional party political question. That is why I think it is wise of the Workers' Party, wise of the Advance Party and wise of the other parties who have released their representatives, so that each representative can stand free to do what he thinks is right in these kinds of questions. The issue that has been the main theme of the debate, namely on the EU and the waiver of sovereignty, will come back in Norwegian policy and in this Chamber in many different denominations and many different intensities. And that's good, but as I said, it's not determined by this paragraph-- fortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1511	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 1720]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1526	There are many good intentions in the proposal to ensure ‘a greater degree of stability and clarity in policy and in the framework conditions for Norwegian business’ - to quote from the comments of the proposer. However, there is a broad majority in the Committee - all except for the proposal - that the instruments referred to here, semi-institutional forms of decision-making, are not appropriate. The question of political long-termity is simply a question of political will to stand firm in decisions over time. It can be called what you want, but expressions such as ‘political discipline’, ‘predictability’ and ‘long-term’ are something that the individual party must deal with itself and possibly with its allies in the Storting, whether it is in opposition or it is in government position. Nor does the majority consider that the introduction of so-called semi-constitutional decisions would be a good solution to balance the conflicting considerations of the policy, because it is clear that there will always be disagreement as to the areas in which special long-termity is needed - to bind the Stortinget to more than one fiscal year, for example. Some - I want to be among them - would think that, for example, is of particular importance for competitive business. Others will probably feel that the finances of municipalities will be so important in terms of long-term sustainability. Others would point out that the health sector is particularly demanding in terms of long-term sustainability. The sum of these considerations may probably mean that the overall budget is bound up in ways that would conflict with the desire for reasonable economic governance and taking account of changing economic and other external circumstances. So these conflicting considerations have to be balanced, and the majority believe that semi-constitutional decisions, or opening up to it or investigating it, are not the way to go. As regards the framework conditions for business, let me just conclude by pointing out that the Stortinget has adopted an action rule aimed at increasing the withdrawal of the petroleum fund, now called the State pension fund - abroad, not to be done in ways that outbalance the Norwegian economy. There may be a lot of perceptions about the rule of action, but at least that's the intention of it. It's clear, I don't think it's easy to imagine a situation where you're going to tie changing governments, regardless of choice, to any such rule. It is a political question that the parties must be open to in elections - whether they will follow it or not. But that a large number, for example. would bind the new bulk of the population through semi-constitutional decisions, I find it difficult to imagine.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1536	Only a few comments in addition to the statements made by the rapporteur. The purpose of the proposals shall be to create greater predictability and stability for Norwegian business. There's no disagreement about the significance of that. The question is how to achieve it in a political landscape that today consists of more, but less, cadastral parcels than the case was 40 and 50 years ago, and where the cadastral mix appears to increase. It is now more demanding to see where the boundaries against neighbouring political property are drawn than was the case before. Especially on one of the larger cadastral parcels are also changed both cereal variety and vegetable species look and often. It was easier before. For example, when a party that was formed to reduce taxes and abolish public bureaucracy stood for it, and not suddenly took over the role of former Prime Minister Kåre Willoch called the spending parties, and promoted many proposals that in their being are bureaucratic. It was also easier to maintain a certain predictability and stability when the batch programmes were in force for the entire four-year period and were not depreciated or rewritten each time the media announced a new crisis in some area or because the target audiences can tell that the select wind is currently blowing a different route from the batch program’s policy. Six-seven years ago, we introduced a rule whose purpose was to contribute to greater predictability and stability in the management of our enormous oil wealth, namely the rule of action. There would have been a contribution to the intended stability and predictability if one had failed to try to ridicule and rewrite this sensible guide to economic policy. But it is not easy to find viable remedies against the kind of undermining of the stability and predictability of the proposer by this crossroads preacher. Life teaches us that it's very difficult to save people from themselves. Stability and predictability must be part of a coherent and responsible policy. It's a responsibility that politicians have to take over. It is a responsibility the parties in this Chamber must take seriously. I don't think that's possible, and at least it's not wise, to try to use neither basic law nor semi-constitutional decision-making to protect the country's business against us politicians. That job is actually our job to do, without the help of the formalities. In this context, it is difficult to recommend that these proposals be accepted. But I think the proposer and his party should think carefully through how they can in other ways contribute to achieving the objectives of the proposals, in their other activities both here in the hall and outside it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1557	I understand that Svein Roald Hansen wants a debate on everything else than what is being discussed, namely a change to the Constitution to ensure more long-termity and predictability for various actors in some areas, and perhaps especially for some businesses. I will resist the temptation to enter into the debate that Svein Roald Hansen really wants, but I do not believe the current system ensures the necessary stability and predictability. I can mention one area, the shipping tax, that a total industry was given as a shock because you thought you had equity in their businesses. They thought they had certainty, and they still get a large bill of the bulk of the population that, in my opinion, must obviously be unconstitutional. But it's the other thing to decide. It is primarily, as the representative Foss, the case rapporteur, said, to ensure long-term sustainability, inter alia. for some companies that we have addressed this. In the globalised world, international groups are able to assess the extent to which they will establish activities in Norway or the shipping companies can assess whether to register their activities in Norway for tax purposes or to do so in another country. The fact that you would like to rely on the long-term conditions is relatively central. For example, depreciation rates may be part of what is considered when setting up a business in Norway, Sweden or Ireland and whether they can be relied on for the significant long-term investment that might have been considered. If there's a situation in the country -- and that's what we're starting to get a little bit into -- where the government that sits at all times is struggling to be re-elected, so that we can get government changes and majority changes every four years in the Storting, in some areas of course it will bring about changes to some laws and regulations and assumptions. In some key issues, the Storting should at least be able to bind later on, of course, with a semi-institutional decision, which is mentioned by the other speakers, i.e. a higher degree of majority power in order to bind a later expansion. That is what we have set out in our draft constitution, which is thoroughly investigated and which has many different alternatives. Our taxes and charges are fixed for only one year at a time. If the uncertainty of making investments and establishments in Norway is greater than in other countries - and there are many other countries that have long-term budgets and have the opportunity to commit to an investor for far more than a national parliamentary period - this could lead to Norway being removed because this is instability and no reassuring assurance that the business is not changed dramatically to the worse. If you have invested in buildings and equipment, you can't easily move it. Shipowners can move their registration relatively easily, but where other things have been done and invested in skills building etc., the situation is quite different. Our proposal is semi-constitutional - yes. We believe that decisions taken by a two-thirds majority should only be subject to subsequent enlargement by the same two-thirds majority in the type of areas of central importance at the microeconomic level. Both Foss and Hansen talked about the macro-economic, that is, the rule of action and the national economy as a whole. It does not interest the individual company that much. The individual enterprise may be in receipt of depreciation rates for it and the type of equipment for which they will have security will not be changed in the next possibly ten to twelve years. That's what this is about. And in the case of the rule of action, it is not followed. It has never been followed, at least not Slavic. If you followed the rule of action, as Per-Kristian Foss said, this year in the 2008 budget, we would have had a cost of almost 80 billion more than we have, because then we would have committed to spending much more oil money. For 2007, they did not use a single penny of oil money. When we get the final account, I think we'll see that it wasn't used a single oil crown in 2007, while the action rule slavely adds that it can be used 4 pst. of what we still call the oil fund, but the majority have renamed the State pension fund - Foreign to trick the population into thinking it has anything to do with pensions. I'll be allowed to comment on our proposal. I think that this is going to be a regular debate as Norway may become injured because we cannot offer stable and long-term framework conditions for international business, which maybe the Norwegian people would have a great advantage of whether it established itself more in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1570	The representative Carl I. Hagen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1573	The proposer addresses an important topic, which concerns the importance of the foreseeable framework conditions for Norwegian business to facilitate long-term investment in Norway. Political stability and clarity are of great importance to the individual citizen and to the confidence of the democratic system. Having said that, however, my clear view is that it is the Stortinget and the political will and ability of the individual parties to give priority to ensuring stability and predictability in the political decision-making processes, not, where appropriate, the constitutional protection of e.g.. budgetary decisions. Long-termity in itself is a political objective that will depend on political standing and judgement. A degree of parliamentary flexibility is therefore important on this issue. The need for sound and up-to-date evidence as the basis for policy decisions also contradicts an excessive long-term commitment. One theme that I think will be discussed more in the years to come is whether, like several of our neighbouring countries, we should assess whether there are areas in the budget for which it would be more natural to have a long-term budget. Without prejudice to the debate, examples of such budget areas could be investment frameworks for Defence and investment frameworks for the transport sector. The centre party will not agree with Carl I. Hagen’s draft Constitution amending the Basic Law § 75 with a view to facilitating a greater degree of stability and clarity in policy and in the framework conditions for Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1584	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 1721]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1599	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 1722]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1614	As rapporteur, I shall present the opinion of the majority of the Committee on this matter. I'm assuming that the minority might even clarify its position, which is about saying no to an investigation. I also expect the rapporteurs to take the floor if they feel they need it. I agree with those who say that the electoral system itself is not the most important thing for more people to vote, or is a guarantee of a well-functioning democracy. But it's a prerequisite that we have a good electoral system that allows the preferences that voters have to have, both in terms of people and politics, to be passed on in the elections. The representative proposal from Per-Kristian Foss and Jan Tore Sanner is about how much influence voters should have on the personal choice by correcting the ballot. This is an important matter, which it is important to go thoroughly into. Like the proposers, the majority of the Committee would like to see the reintroduction of such a right to cancel candidates in local elections. However, at this stage the Labour Party has not finally concluded whether this right should be imposed. We must first come back to that when the Government submits a complete case to the Stortinget. Both the reasons given by the Electoral Committee and the Government for removing the right of voters to cancel candidates were that the electoral system should be built around the voters' positive preferences. Otherwise, for the first time in the course of treatment in the United Kingdom in 2002 and the 2003 elections took effect. It is therefore important to examine whether this actuarial objective has been achieved and what effects it may have had, for example. for the electoral participation. After two choices, there should be a good enough basis for examining different aspects of this and whether the scheme may have resulted in unintended effects. There are at least two important elements that can be taken into account for such an investigation. One is that in Ot.prp. No 45 for 2001-2002 it is established that changes to the personal election system should be evaluated on an ongoing basis. The second is that an investigation must consider whether such reintroduction may have a positive impact on the electoral participation in municipal and county elections. It has been over a relatively long period of time that the turnout has fallen in municipal elections. This is a trend that does not serve democracy. This trend has to be reversed, for example. more extensive personal choice, simpler prioritisation, more and better technology and easier voice access. There may be elements that may increase the turnout. Personal choices have long traditions in the municipalities. This has been fixed both in NOU 2001:03, voters, electoral system, selected, and in a number of previous investigations on the electoral system. The prerequisites for voters to have knowledge of the candidates on the list in their own municipalities are good, and the question of whom they want to be represented has a strong influence on the electorate's party selection. If broadest possible access to personal elections can contribute to increased electoral participation in local elections, it is a good thing for democracy. If the deletion procedure can contribute to this, one of several important issues will be addressed in an investigation. Historically, the debate on the right to cancel candidates has been given little space. The debate has often been most visible after an election, and in most parties, opinions have been shared over time on this right to cancel candidates have served their purpose. On the other hand, among the voters there are signs that this right is considered to be a democratic right and a valuation of voters' judgements. This means that voters have a strong influence on the people whom the voters want to represent in local policy. Local elections are much greater than national elections. Even without the right to strike, this was strongly expressed in the municipality of the autumn. This shows the importance of individuals in local policy. A much-mentioned effect by having ironing access is the organized orchestras - popularly called ironing orchestras - to which some list candidates are exposed. These so-called orchestras could help to highlight some candidates in a stressful way, such as: in the media or within the batches. In today's SMS world it is probably much worse to see anonymous messages printed in locals throughout the year - SMSes often go on the intransigence of local-named peoples. I guess this is a lot worse than the voters being given their opinion in ordinary elections. The majority of the Committee would stress that any changes to the electoral law must be implemented without significantly distorting the balance between the elements of the electoral system. In the event of insolvency, the Committee recommends that the proposal for a decision should consist of two paragraphs. I ask the President to vote separately over paragraph 1 and paragraph 2 of the setting. The first term reads like this: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate the possibility of reintroducing a system of cancellation of list candidates in municipal elections. Access to ironing must be considered in the context of an adjustment of the addendum of the parties’ pre-cumulated candidates.’;» I recommend that the Working Party vote for this paragraph. So line 2 is going to be: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit the proposal to the Stortinget, with a view to enabling such a scheme to apply from the Municipal Council elections in 2011.’ I would recommend that the Members of the Labour Party vote against paragraph 2, but that does not alter the reality of the matter referred to in the first paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1654	Very short: these are actually two proposals. They should probably be separated in the setting. As we see it -- and that's explained in the rapporteur's statement, as far as I understand it -- the first thing is to make an investigation, and that's an investigation we're also putting ourselves behind. I think that makes a lot of sense. My interpretation of the second part that suggests time-limits is that it is primarily a clarification that the investigation is to be completed in such a way that it is presented to the Size for treatment in time for any change in the time prior to the 2011 localisation. The Progress Party does not interpret this part 2 as having taken a stand on the reality of the investigation - at least it's with the premise we're going to handle it. There is an investigation to be carried out. Then the examination of whether the right to cancel should be reintroduced, come when the investigation is available and the proposal - possibly from a government or others - is available for consideration in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1661	The Christian People's Party is concerned that the current regime for the election of persons by local government has been tested only in two choices. Much more experience should be gained before any changes are made to the scheme. It's too early to evaluate. There should be a balance between the ability of lots and voters to influence who is chosen. The Christian People's Party believes that it is important that the election system is based on the voters' positive preferences, and will maintain today's system where it is not possible to delete candidates on the lists. Now, when there is a majority to investigate the possibility of reintroducing a system of deleting list candidates in local government elections, I really hope that the government will think well and not propose to reintroduce that possibility. Those who stand for local democracy and say yes to their party-local team to be on a municipal government list should not experience a negative focus when individuals or groupings remove them from the list. I cannot understand the majority in this case when they say that there is no evidence that being deleted from a list is not a great impression for the candidates it is going through. I think the majority devalue this side of the case when they refer to a research report that has looked at candidates in four municipalities and found that there is a link between cumulation and ironing, and that the candidates who were deleted have also received cumulation. I don't think it tells me much about how it feels to be strangled. So how can the majority be sure or know more about how it's going to be perceived, burdensome or one, to be deleted from a list? I have even spoken to current candidates who have experienced a previous stroke, who have not liked it very much, and who seem to have been a burden. Even though you might not be able to say that there's a big impact, at least it's negative that one chooses to say no to being on a list in fear of being deleted. It's not good for local democracy. One of the reasons we took away the possibility of deleting candidates was that there were more or less organised actions where individuals or particular groups were removed from the list. It could be that women were systematically deleted - and there have been cases of the deletion of immigrants from the electoral lists. Such actions are not good for democracy. Democracy should have positive tools where you can give plus to those who are going to get a little extra support, as we have the opportunity to do today. We think it's better to give voters positive preferences as a starting point. The right of voters to express negative preferences by deleting candidates should not be reinstated. The reasons for the proposal are as follows: ‘An even wider access to personal elections through the reintroduction of the right of erasure will thus give voters greater opportunities to vote on candidates who have the same opinion as they do on current political issues or to cancel candidates with whom they disagree.’ - That's true enough. But the candidates on a list go to a party program. Debate or differing views on individual issues in each party is a task for the party group! I hope the government will not make any suggestions to reinstate the extinguishment. If the deletion is reintroduced, one must look at the entire electoral system again - because everything is related to everything. The possibility of deletion will have consequences for the number of names placed on the lists and for the weighting of additional votes to be obtained from cumulation. Let's keep the changes we made a short time ago! Finally, there is a consensus that we should not be able to cancel by rollover. I think we should have the same principles for the electoral system - local, regional and national.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1685	It emerges from the setting in this case that the Center Party and the Christian People's Party agree. Since Bjørg Tørresdal has presented some of the points of view we very much agree on, I don't need to spend so much time from this pulpit. What's the main point for us in the Center Party is that this arrangement has been tested in just two choices. We therefore believe that it is too early to change it. That is also the basis for us to believe that today's system, where it is not possible to delete candidates on the lists, should be maintained. And that is the basis for us to oppose the proposal. Furthermore, we note that the majority ‘began the Government to explore the possibility of reintroducing a system of deletion of list candidates’. In this way, there is no direct direction for what is to be introduced at the next choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1694	Although it paints and lir toward the end of the day, I will spend some time advocating the Left's view on this matter - as the Left is not represented in the Committee. Left fought in front of local democracy--yes, we would even constitutionalize it. Everyone agrees that local democracy is fundamental to the rule of the people of our country. It contributes to recruitment, insight and experience, participation and involvement. In the last local elections, we have seen a trend towards lower turnout. Among other things, the Left in the last period promoted the proposal for a local democracy commission, which was to look at the status - and to take measures to revitalise local democracy. The possibility of deleting list candidates was little debated at the Local Democratic Commission. But then the new arrangement, with only cumulation, was after all just one choice old. In any case, there was no high level of involvement in the Commission to reintroduce the erasure option as a measure. The new scheme has now been implemented by two choices, and one looks at the election result that so-called ‘positive preferences’ have not necessarily turned out to be positive. The proportion of young people selected and the proportion of women selected have, for example: did not increase in nominal terms. In this sense, there will be no defeat in reintroducing the right to cancel, when the election result is most likely to be fairer. However, the fear of defeat - by being extinguished - can scare some candidates from being on a list and still at the elections. That perspective is little affected in the configuration of the committee. The concern about the recruitment of the policy must all be taken with us - and be responsible for it. We'll leave that concern behind. The left has programmed that we should reintroduce the possibility of deleting list candidates. The left wants a wide range of measures to revitalise local democracy. More power to electors and more person-focused choices are among these. The possibility of cancelling candidates you disagree with is just as important as the possibility of cumulating candidates you agree with. In local policy, party divisions are often small, and therefore the opinions of candidates are often very important. Often, local politics is also influenced by the ability of people - as much as the parties - to promote matters. In such a perspective, it is important to give the voters the opportunity to express who they want to represent them, and who they do not want. When one -- as the Left wishes -- will allow the voters to gain more power, it's important not to disperse anyone. The experience of the last two options is that a smaller group of voters will correct the lists when one allows to delete. For several reasons, the Left will support the proposal of the representatives of Foss and Sanner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1713	I agree with a great many of the assessments and reflections that both the case rapporteur and Left's Leif Helge Kongshaug have expressed. Personal choice has a long tradition in local elections and is often as important as the party election itself. I think it's important to take care of that part of our local democracy. There are essentially two arguments against the proposal to reintroduce the opportunity to delete what is being introduced into the field. One is that you can express negative preferences. That's a point of view I have very little understanding of. Taking a choice is about saying yes to something - and actually saying no to something else. When we first ask the voters to choose between parties and between people, that means supporting someone rather than anyone else. As politicians, we have to bear in mind that we are being strangled, that someone says no to us when they say yes to someone else. The second argument in the field is that this allows a small group to manipulate choices. I think that the experience of the last municipal elections shows that, on the contrary, one removes a balancing point by removing the right to cancel out the list candidates, because now you give one-sided opportunity to a group to cumulate in someone without anyone else having the opportunity to balance this one-sided action. This means that quite strange or extreme positions can lead to a small group cumulating this person, and that you get right into a local government or city government without giving those who disagree with this position the opportunity to express this. I therefore look at the right to delete list candidates as an important element in balancing that kind of action. Let me just end by expressing a personal view that this question has been raised: when big business politicians have stated that there is an opportunity to use personal choices in municipal elections, why have you not opened up the same in the case of big business? I believe that the time has come to raise a debate on a larger element of personal choice, even when this is outside the scope of this proposal for a document.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1724	Let me first take advantage of the opportunity to report that the Government will present a big message about local democracy during the spring of 2008. The aim of the message is to confirm and strengthen local democracy, which has a central place in our governance. The message runs out of the local democracy commission's work and is going to be big. Your options scheme will be an important theme of your message. There we will also mention and propose measures that can help to increase citizens' involvement and say participation in local policies. So some comments on the proposal that is before us today. Until the end of 2002 of the electoral term, the voters could delete the candidates from the polls. This right falls away when the new election law was introduced. The proposal to change the permissions of the voters was made by the Elections Committee in NOU 2001:3 voters, electoral arrangements, selected. The selection made a thorough assessment of the regulatory framework with a view to achieving a reasonable balance between the electorate’s possibilities to influence the election process and the parties’ wishes to secure the candidates they wanted to prioritise. The selection placed great emphasis on the fact that the consideration of the voters' positive preferences should be decisive, not the negative ones. A wide variety of selections presented the draft rules that would remove the option of deleting candidates. The emphasis was placed on the fact that their proposal was part of a broad and holistic solution, whereby the parties' rights in exercising an influence on the selection were constrained at the same time. The aim of the new nomination scheme was to increase the influence of voters on candidates. The government supports the Ot. pp proposal. No 45 for 2001-2002, and the proposal was subsequently adopted in agreement with the Stortinget. Whether the new personalisation scheme actually led to an increase in the influence of the voters can be discussed. The evaluation of the election system in 2003, carried out by the Rokkan Centre, shows that the parties have a key role to play in influencing the composition of local government. The changes made by the selector to the lists mean less. As in the 2003 elections, the Rokkan Centre has been entrusted with the task of evaluating the recruitment arrangements also in the 2007 municipal government and county council elections. The final results of the 2007 selection evaluation will not be available until the end of 2008. It will represent an important material in order to eliminate the reintroduction of access to delete list candidates. This evaluation will also tell you more about the batch nomination process than the previous one. The representatives Foss and Sanner point out that there is a current imbalance in the personal election system, by allowing a smaller number of voters to select an impression candidate, while the majority cannot express and balance their views when it is not possible to delete candidates. But that's not exactly the right image after I see it. With today's system, the selectors will be able to balance this effect by giving voice to other candidates. Another question is whether this should be the way to correct this. When the scheme was introduced, attention was paid to the fact that the voters could only express positive personal preferences. I have now noticed the proposal that is leading, and that gets multiples. I'll do what I can to follow up with a thorough analysis. It's natural, based on the limited facts we have, to look at whether the social security system in local government elections works after the intention, or whether there's any reason to change. Is it e.g. a myth that women are being stroked more than men? Are immigrants exposed to the same thing, or is it also a myth? And then there's an example of several potential list candidates refusing to stand still, because they don't want to be exposed to deletion, especially the visible part of this, which usually comes mostly in smaller municipalities. I'll make sure that this is done. Let me say quite frankly that election laws are among the most important laws in a democracy like ours. It's about the gamblers of the People's Government. It is about the framework of political competition and the representation of people's unity and different interests in elected bodies. For this reason, it is also important to have a continuous debate on how democracy works, and on whether, and if so, how, we should change the rules of the game. A policy for more and better democracy will often involve growing criticism and willingness to reform democracy. Then we need to debate about the gamblers, like today. That does not mean that everyone is quite a while, but I would just as well pay tribute to the proposers for taking the initiative in this proposal, and therefore also to the debate that we have had here today. So I hear that when it comes to the setting, today there is a clarification that, when the layout is ready, introduces a new debate here before any proposals for changes are made.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1747	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1750	It is not difficult to agree with the Council of State that a continuous debate on the functioning of democracy is important. I noticed that the Council of State used the expression ‘to increase the involvement of its citizens’, and of course it is an important part of stimulating democracy, not only locally, but also centrally in the country. However, the question is whether reintroducing an ironing system is an appropriate instrument for achieving the objective of increasing citizens' involvement in democracy. After all, some experience has been gained over the years by being involved and taking responsibility in society, and then you can see that ironing has often led to a kind of reversion, or revenge, because you've disagreed with important things that people have done, and eliminated people from the lists, people that we've often seen have been competent, and that we've needed in politics. The question is, has the Council of State considered whether a strike regime is an appropriate means of stimulating commitment to democracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1757	If I'm here to sort what I think is most important to strengthen local democracy, I think recruiting widely is something that I would spend a lot of time on. I'm also going to evaluate some suggestions about this in the big message that we are now working on. As I was talking about: with regard to this proposal, it leads to what might be called myths, or what might call counter-precisions, and one of the questions that I think it is important to look at more closely is just this: what happens to people who are being extinguished? Is it so that reintroducing an ironing system here might lead to a narrower recruitment, because there are individuals here who have painful experiences, who have seen that others have painful experiences, especially in smaller municipalities, because there is the most visible?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1765	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 1722]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1775	The size now goes to voting in today's affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1790	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal in two points, by Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, on behalf of the Progress Party, proposal No. 3, from Leif Helge Kongshaug on behalf of Left The President proposes that the proposal and the vote should be voted on in the usual way, using voting apparatus. - It is deemed to have been adopted. The proposal from the left is the first to be voted on. The proposal reads as follows: «Document No 12:6 Option 1 - to be agreed.» [[right to vote and to stand]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1816	The proposal of the Progress Party reads as follows: ‘IDocument No. 12:4 [[The Court of Appeal and the General Court shall not be abrogated]] Alternatively, I in the proposal will be replaced by the opinion of the Committee under I.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1843	The text of the proposal from the Progress Party reads as follows: ‘II Document No 12:6 Option 2 - accepted. [[right to vote and to stand]] Option 1 - not acceptable.’ Alternatively, there will be a vote between II of the proposal and that of the II Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1873	There is only the proposal for a decision in the resolution, and it is generally accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1893	Here is a proposal from Lars Peder Breck on behalf of the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 12:12 [[Parliament adopted the legislative resolution]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1910	The proposal for a decision in II and the proposal of the Central Party shall first be replaced by an alternative one. All, with the exception of the Centre Party, have supported in the Committee the refusal to reject the proposal of the Centre Party. The President will propose that it be voted in the usual way, using voting apparatus. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1927	There is still to be a vote on the proposal for a decision in I. The President will propose that it be voted on by roll call. - It is deemed to have been adopted. Before we go to voting, the President will make a clarification on the voting theme: Under I, it is proposed that option 1 be accepted and option 2 not accepted. This must be considered as a whole, which means that those who wish to amend Section 93 have chosen option 1 as they would like to adopt, and therefore, in line with usual practice in dealing with constitutional proposals, insist that option 2 is not accepted. This cannot then be interpreted as if those who vote against option I disagree that option 2 is not acceptable. The plug starts with representative No. 6 from Uppland County, Espen Johnsen. For the record, a clarification has been requested from the President. The only clarification that can be given here is that, in the course of the debate, the right-wing representatives intend to vote in favour. The working party and the Progress Party, which are behind the setting, are set free by the groups. The formal recommendation is that the representatives of the Progress Party and the Labour Party vote yes - but the representatives are free. The others have been against the setting. The voters will reply yes. The votes against the configuration answer no. The President will request that representatives respond clearly and loudly for the purposes of registration and that there should be peace in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e1967	There is a proposal from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats here. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 12:13 [[2003-2004]] Alternatively, between this proposal and the setting up of the Committee, the President proposes that it be voted in the usual way, using voting facilities. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e2051	Here, there is a need to vote separately over each of the two paragraphs of the motion for a decision of the vote, and we start with the first paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e2059	The Christian People's Party and the Center Party have announced that they want to vote against the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e2076	Here, the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre have announced that they want to vote against the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-10.ana.ud1690e2184	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
