ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e59	The representatives Harald T. Nesvik, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, Åsa Elvik and Anne Marit Bjørnflaten, who have been on leave, have again taken their seats. The formerly exempted alternates, for Finnmark County Ann-Kristin Engstad and for More and Romsdal County Jenny Klinge, have taken their seats. The called alternate of the South-Trøndelag County, Hanne Dyveke Sweets, has taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: from the representative of Laila Davøy on leave from 1 April to 4 April in order to take part in meetings of the EFTA Parliamentary Committees and the EEA Joint Parliamentary Committee in India. by the Socialist Left Party Group on welfare leave of the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo from 1 April until further notice. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. - It is deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Hordaland County, Knut Arild Hareide, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget on 3 and 4 April under the leave of the representative Laila Davay, due to foreign residence. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Finnmark County: Kirsti Saxi For the Hordaland County: Knut Arild Hareide and Toril Selsvold Nyborg
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e129	Knut Arild Hareide is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e135	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings today and for the rest of the current week - and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen. Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen are unanimously elected as chairpersons for Stortinget's meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e155	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from the Council of State in the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e164	The representative proposal submitted to the Stortinget deals with the implementation of a national plan for wind power plants in Norway. The proposers believe that such a plan should provide an overview of positive and negative environmental costs, the impact on travel life, security of supply, etc. In this setting, the Committee refers to the St. Meld's management. No 29 for 1998-1999 On energy policy, where the Stortinget set a target for the construction of wind turbines producing 3 TWh annually by 2010. There are now more than 130 wind power projects for handling in the NVE and in the Oil and Energy Department today. However, the current applications do not provide a realistic picture of the future land-based wind power development in our country, among other things. due to the lack of network capacity. The Committee is aware that investment in wind power will raise challenges for nature in several places, including: the nature environment, biodiversity, nature and landscape types, outdoor life, cultural memory, etc. The majority of the Committee refers to the agreements concluded in the context of the Climate Communication, where all parties in the Stortinget participated, with the exception of the Progress Party. There is a stronger commitment to renewable energy, research and technology development in the coming years, under this a national strategy for power generation from marine mills and other maritime renewable energy sources. The majority further indicate that the Government has committed itself through the climate agreement to establishing a demonstration programme and a strategy for renewable energy sources offshore. The majority believe that such a plan as is proposed by the representatives of the Progress Party is not the turbulent hub in today's situation, as it will lead to a sharp increase in the distribution requirement for the builder, while the plan may not go deep enough to reveal all the necessary problem settings and factors that can affect the individual production site. On this basis, the Committee's majority amendments were not submitted. The centre party sees wind power as an important part of the solution to one of the greatest challenges of our time - emissions of greenhouse gases. The great potential when it comes to wind power onshore, and, not least, when it comes to wind power offshore, will be a decisive contribution to increasing the production of new renewable energy. The way from fossil energy supply to renewable energy supplies has a number of sources, where wind power is one of the real key. The centre party is pleased with the large commitment to wind power and renewable energy in general shown by the Council of State. Finally, it must be allowed to wonder a little about the approach of the Progress Party - an approach through what the Stortinge treats today. A party that markets itself as the foremost fighter against an unnecessary bureaucracy, in Stortinget, presents a proposal where the political solution is just more plans and more bureaucracy. In this area, the turn of the Centre Party is somewhat different: it is the use of energy to find out measures that will enable us to realise several of the many important projects we have - projects to provide new renewable energy in general and projects for wind power in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e181	The rapporteur has done an excellent job in favour of the views of the government parties - and hence the majority - on the proposal for a national plan for wind turbines. I will therefore not repeat the reasoning as to why such a plan is not appropriate, but I will, just for the sake of the whole, give some brief consideration to it as well. First, I want to highlight the basis for the work of the Government and the Red-Green parties on wind power, as expressed in the Soria Moria Declaration. It states that the Government will ‘increase the development of environmentally friendly wind power and, through the concession system, ensure good regional and national coordination of wind power generation’. Secondly, I would like to refer to the Government's commitment to renewable energy. This increased commitment to new renewable energy production and energy efficiency improvement is an important element of a strategy for an improved energy balance and for an improvement in the overall energy balance. In total, this strategy - through Enova - aims to deliver 30 TWh by 2016. After Enova's reports, we're on track now. More wind power is part of this. All forms of energy production have negative consequences. The aim must be to reduce conflicts with regard to environmental values and other societal interests. Concession treatment is the key tool in balancing environmental and user interests. The large amount of progress in applications for wind power generation - over 130 applications are under consideration, as the case-rapporteur said - shows the need for a thorough and broad assessment, with careful consideration of disadvantages and what one can achieve in the individual case. Such clarifications cannot, under any circumstances, be achieved through a general plan on a national basis. A strengthened decision-making basis is necessary to ensure coordination and predictability. As the Council of State has stated in its letter to the Committee, we can achieve this through: thematic conflict assessments of each wind energy demand regional coordination of concession treatment to implement the guidelines for the planning and location of wind power plants presented by the Minister for Oil and Energy and the Minister for Environmental Protection in June 2007 In practice, this means that we have established criteria for the ongoing processing of concession applications, but that it is generally not appropriate to postpone the processing of concession applications pending plans. For example, the good projects must be allowed to see today's light and not be exposed to bureaucratic rules. I would also like to remind you that the Government has announced strong incentives for speeding up wind power generation, with an increase in resources for this purpose and with improved support schemes. I assume that the Council of State will support this in its statement later on. Finally, I would like to underline the strong growth in wind power generation globally. In its 2006 report, the Global Wind Energy Council says, among other things. that installed capacity globally had an increase of 32 pst. in 2006. Although Europe has 65 pst. of the global market, in terms of capacity, it may be worth noting that installed capacity in the Asian region increased by 53 pst. in one year. For the second consecutive year, the United States had the largest numerical increase in installed capacity. This shows that it is being put on a large scale worldwide. Norway has taken the aim of being involved in this, which is now being facilitated by the Government through the measures announced.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e210	Let me start by including the proposals of the Advance Party in this matter. The debate on windmills is really one of the best examples that there is enormous distance between what politicians promise and signal, and what they realize. The situation is very unfortunate, because there are expectations towards the power industry that if you only come with wind power, we'll get it done. During the entire previous magnification period, wind power on land was the big issue for all the parties that are now in government or that were then in government. Nevertheless, we see that very little is realized -- very little is realized. The industry is eager. The industry has come with the projects because it has been politically encouraged to do so. But nothing can be done. At the same time, the local population is becoming increasingly frightened. While they were initially positive to one wind power project, there are now five wind power projects in the local area. That's why more and more people's reactions to wind power, people's reactions to coastal degradation, appear. It is a problem, because there is a conflict - an unnecessary conflict - between the community and the energy industry and not least what we politicians want to achieve. We want us to have a national plan, not a bureaucratic deep-diving thing -- it's obvious that this is how red-green politicians think. Once something is done, there should be a hundred bureaucrats working on it. What we want is a politically clear objective, a national plan, in which we propose to realise the good wind power projects and remove the bad wind power projects and scrape them. By doing that, you avoid tying up resources in the NVE, as we see today. There are three years' work on wind power concession applications, and there are 130 concession applications for treatment. One can only guess what kind of trial period there is on this. Usually it goes many years before you get a case handler at all. If you can get a national plan, you get a reduction in the number of pending issues, which means that the issues that we want to achieve politically are better dealt with. So we make it predictable for the energy industry because they know that in some areas they can just forget to apply, because they don't get yes anyway. And then we reduce the local resistance. Spatial plans already exist. If we say from the national level that one should sum these, so that we also take into account across the county boundaries, a few can realize this quite quickly. It's strange that it's going to be possible to put in place stately plans without it being a terrible bureaucratic thing, while, if we're going to do this nationally, it's going to be completely unreasonable. And as far as the representative Sande is concerned, I also have to ask: if you think that bureaucracy is the big problem for the energy industry, why has this government ordered small power plants to have stately plans? It says that the entire small power plant industry is a bureaucratic element that makes this difficult. So here's the government talking to its own knowledge. Let's do, for example. a national red mark area which is known not to be involved due to housing patterns and due to environmental or cultural historical values. That's where the industry keeps away. And then promote a place where we've politically said that these are places where it's okay if you have good applications. If you show that a project is not worth mentioning, but for great benefit, you will most likely receive good treatment. This proposal by the Progress Party must not be compared to the overall plan for hydropower, where - quite rightly - very bureaucratic work is under way. We want a much more general national plan. The time frame, someone is saying -- if we're going to do this, we have to postpone lots of projects. Yes, how many projects are in danger of being realised in the coming years? Because of the Government's renewable energy policy, most wind power projects have been scrapped or at least iced up. There are very few projects that will be realized in the next few years. Therefore, we can absolutely use the waiting time we have now to create a better framework, so that one actually gets speeded up the process when we get capacity and support arrangements in place. NVE has been specifically told to reduce wind power when they are going to work forward, unless it is in central Norway. If the Council of State shakes its head, the Council of State should confirm that wind power is a priority task, because that is not the signal she has given so far. So we're going to make strategic action plans for ocean-based windmills, which are 10-15 years ahead, but we're not going to make a strategic plan, or national level, for land-based windmills that can improve the power balance in the short term. I think that is completely unfair to the industry, and that is totally unfair to the local population. It shows that when a promise of 3 TWh new wind power by 2010, there is nothing you can believe in, because you do not have the means to implement it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e231	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e234	In fact, when the Right does not support the proposals of the Progress Party in this matter, it is because we want to achieve more wind power projects in Norway in the first place. One has, in today's proposal, adjusted to the previous proposals of the Progress Party, where, a few years ago, an overall plan for wind power projects would be more or less in line with that of hydropower. There is no doubt that the approach adopted here by the Progress Party will hardly contribute to the deployment of more renewable energy in Norway. It could clearly pose a significant risk of even more bureaucracy, more hands in the field of planning, etc. Right-wing wants a strategy for new renewable energy in Norway. We have set a bold goal in Norway: 30 TWh new renewable energy in place within seven-eight years. We have no time to lose. When you approach this question in the way you do it on the part of the proposers, one question will necessarily hang in the air: do you want or do you not want more wind power in Norway? A national plan could never, as the representative Kristoffersen had in mind, go deep enough in assessing all the consequences of individual applications. It is only by assessing the individual projects that one can draw the necessary conclusions with regard to conflict potential and suitability. A national plan could never be able to take account of this type of impact assessment. For the Right, who wants more renewable energy quickly in place in Norway, there are two points that we believe are absolutely crucial. One is that applicants need conditions in Norway that are better than today’s conditions. Conditions need to be put in place that are comparable to those in our neighbouring country. That's the one. The second is that we need to get a much faster procedure in place. These are the two bottlenecks that have contributed to the fact that things have gone too small. The rapporteurs are right in that, but we cannot support the solution to the Progress Party. We don't need any more plans. We need faster and better treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e245	I note that the Progress Party recycles one of its corresponding proposals from some years ago. The reason why they do it, I don't know, because the proposal was voted in favour last time. It is unlikely to clarify the government option one brings forward this proposal. That we should spend time doing something for new renewable energy is probably not the aim of this proposal either. Then a few questions have to be asked: Is it for the sake of local democracy that one takes up this matter? When, for example, Talking about snowmobiles, we hear from the Progress Party that we have to take care of the decisions of local democracy, we have to make sure that the locals get settled. And when it comes to beachzones, the government or anyone else should not interfere with anything - everything should be free. So they're going to have a plan when it comes to windmills, in spite of the fact that the county around now has adopted such plans, for example. Rogaland - the state from which one of the proposers himself comes. Rogaland County has a plan to build up wind power. The proposers know that. What is the reason for this proposal when one knows that it will be voted down, and one knows that the conclusion is that there will be less new renewable energy? One might be a bit conspiratory and think that a fear is that the renewable wind power deployment in Norway will go beyond thorium and nuclear power plants. Is that what's behind it? What in all days is behind this proposal? I wonder. Maybe you're afraid we should protect more watercourses, or something else? It's impossible to figure out. SV is aware that we are getting more new renewable energy. We are very pleased that we have a climate settlement that places emphasis on this. Already in a 2002 agreement with the Bondevik government in connection with the gas message, a Green Certificate Scheme was agreed in Stortinget. Bondevik never managed to file a case about it. Why, I don't know, but there never came a case about green certificates. So we got the stuff into the Soria Moria statement. It also went out, and it didn't seem that we were going to get anything there either. But now we have a climate deal that says this is going to be up and up. There is SV very much to it, because we believe it means a lot to bet on new renewable energy. We also record that the Government is given a clear mandate in the climate agreement when it comes to sea windmills. Yesterday we got from the rogalands bench on the right about a project on the Haugaland - a gigantic project for sea windmills. So there are things going on, and the climate deal is being followed up by the Government. A demonstration programme for new renewable energy has also been agreed. The case spokesman was busy that we were going to use our energy to generate new renewable energy. It's a conclusion I'm very much in agreement with. Then we get others to work on creating new renewable energy, while the Progress Party is dreaming about bringing together political solutions that apply to nuclear power stations, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e260	I think a little comment to the representative Langeland's visit to the Bondevik administration is in place. I can't see that the Stoltenberg administration has submitted a big message about green certificates - it is either that the negotiation basis was scrapped on 28 February 2006. But we're together on the matter, and then we'll see how that case ends. So over to today's business. The Christian People's Party has been and will be a driver to increase the production of clean energy. Europe needs more power - clean power - and then saving and efficient use of energy are the best solutions. Wind power is a renewable resource that Norway has a lot of. This shows the different wind maps of Norway and also of Europe. So we have a lot of access to wind, but there's a high level of conflict around some of the expansions. Therefore, not all applications currently available will be accepted. I think that's a good idea. We have a well-functioning system to pick out the projects to be expanded. One of the proposers, Mr Solvik-Olsen's representative, said in his speech that what the Progress Party wants is an overall national plan for wind power development. But such an overall plan will not go into the different areas of conflict as has been the case. Two years ago, we dealt with a fairly similar matter. In this respect, the Committee even held consultations. It may have been because it was early in the period, that we took the time to consult on this matter. The consultation concluded that such an overall plan would lead to a sharp increase in the investigatory requirements for builders, while an overall plan could not go deep enough to reveal all the necessary problems in relation to the different wind power installations. I can't see that there's anything in this picture that's changed. My hope is that in two years' time we will not be here to discuss the same matter, because our time is too important to discuss this matter. A lost case is a lost case as long as no new information is available, and there is no such case.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e275	The question of a national wind power plan has actually been dealt with in this room before, and the Left believes the same thing about this issue now that we did the last case was being dealt with. We will also have the same position next time the Progress Party will perhaps promote this proposal. We believe that a national wind power plan is not appropriate. There are two main objectives to be pursued. One is to facilitate the increased production of renewable energy. The second is to ensure that different interests are balanced when deciding which plans could be given a clear signal and which ones should be stopped. The main problem today is that expansion has largely stopped. We have a poor support regime, and there is great uncertainty about what will happen in the future. In addition, long-term treatment in NVE is a major problem. This is a critical situation, because many feel that there is a lack of consistency between the clear desire to increase renewable energy production and the state of the government and the size of the economy to facilitate such production. Here we have to get on the offensive, and here we need a quick clarification of the level of support pending the entry of green certificates. It is quite right, as many people point out, that there is a great potential in sea mill production, and I am very pleased that it is an important part of the climate agreement that an offensive should be put in place to speed up these types of projects. But there is no doubt that it is also important to realize projects on land, and that there is a connection between what we do on land and what we do offshore. Here it is important to get on the offensive and to facilitate the realisation of good projects. But it will be that many projects will also get a negative answer. In Rogaland, my own home country, there are projects of a total of 3 TWh - that is, what is the national goal - and it is understandable that many react to such a volume and are uncertain as to whether it will be willing to sort. It's been handled by one in Rogaland by making stately plans where one says where one has opened up to wind power expansion, and where one doesn't have it. Thus, together with thematic conflict assessments and regional coordination during the concession procedure, this important consideration can be reconciled with different interests. In this context, I would like to challenge the Council of State a little bit on the procedural capacity of wind power projects, because in Rogaland, for example, it has been said that one must wait several years for clarification. Among those who have reacted to it, Tore Nordtun, who wants to speed this up. I hope that the Council of State can confirm that she will be involved. Then I just want to take a visit to Hallgeir Langeland. He held in bottom and ground a good post and made this with green certificates also a visit. He said he wondered why the Bondevik government's work on green certificates was not completed. The explanation for this is that it was a government change. It was an opportunity to get this system going, and it was in the previous government's expressed willingness to implement the scheme that was being investigated. So it was not the case with the green certificates with the government today. It was scraped. Now this is on track again, and the most important thing is not the history description, but that we're getting up to a system that triggers increased renewable energy production. We're going to do that in a way that also takes care of other interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e292	As the proposers point out, renewable energy, including wind power on land and at sea, is a central focus of the Government. Other parties to the Stortinget, except the Progress Party, have also agreed through the climate agreement that the commitment to renewable energy is an important measure to reduce Norway’s domestic greenhouse gas emissions. Norway shall have triggered 3 TWh wind by the end of 2010. Since 2001, Enova has supported approx. 1.5 TWh wind power. Pending a certification market, Enova’s investment aid scheme will trigger a further 1,5 TWh by the end of 2010. Enova is currently working hard to establish a good system. We have good projects that we want to expand, and with reference to the posts of the representative Kristoffersen, I would like to say that I feel absolutely sure that the future investment aid scheme will be well received by the actors. I had hoped that we had had this announcement ready before Easter. Now it's right around the corner, and there'll be an application deadline right over summer. As you know, we are in dialogue with the Swedish authorities about a green certification market. We're working on the assumption that it should be in place as soon as possible. But wise transitional arrangements are needed, and we are now in favour of wind power. The proposers state that they believe that the authorities should develop a national plan for wind power development, and this should help us to identify the areas where wind power is totally out of date and areas where wind power projects can be particularly desirable. As other members of the Energy and Environment Committee refer to in the same position, in 2007 the Government adopted guidelines for the planning and location of wind power plants. The guidelines call on county councils to draw up sub-plans for wind power that map and systematise the values of areas and point to areas where, on the basis of regional priorities, there is a particular high and acceptable level of conflict. Several counties are already working on such a plan. Rogaland, Nordland and South-Trøndelag have come the farthest, and the NVE has assisted them in this work. In this context, it is also my opinion that it is not reasonable and effective to do similar work at national level. If a national plan were to be designed within acceptable time and cost frameworks in order not to delay wind power generation, it would provide little new information in addition to that already obtained in the above regional plans and in the treatment of wind power projects at the reporting stage. Creating a more detailed national plan that provides a thorough and comprehensive assessment of potential wind power sites in Norway would be very time-consuming and resource-intensive. As in the treatment of concession requests for wind power, one would have to make thorough impact assessments, carry out consultation rounds, inspections and public meetings. In addition, if the plan were to assess individual projects, it would be expeditiously out of date as a result of new and modified projects. I am therefore pleased that the proposal has not been accepted in the Committee's position. In the case of proceedings in the NVE, which is a leaping point, and as the representative of Kvassheim mentions, we will come back to it in the subsequent inter-pelling debate. That is why I shall conclude by saying that on one point I fully agree with the rapporteurs. It's when it's said that it's ‘Suggest that wind power is carried out in a sound manner rather than in the fastest possible manner’. It is also why the Government insists that the quality and thoroughness of concessional treatment should not be reduced, that NVE and OED now have many projects involved in treatment and are constantly working to improve the effectiveness of treatment. This is also why the Government has taken new steps to strengthen the decision-making basis for the concession treatment. Thematic conflict assessments are carried out, the concession treatment is coordinated in the regions, guidelines that increase the predictability of local and community communities have been established, and county municipalities are encouraged to make regional plans. This is a great and demanding work. It's definitely a goal that we get wind power up to stand as fast as possible. We're taking different steps to get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e315	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e318	It is not surprising that the Council of State is satisfied that they are not required to draw up a national plan. All attempts from Stortinget to create an action plan for Middle Norway, an energy policy action plan, a central network strategy, etc. have been voted down by the Government - obviously because it does not want to have to commit itself to anything at all to the Stortinget. The government parties have a majority - that's their case, and they have to decide for themselves. However, the need for a national plan is evident when one sees how many projects have emerged as a result of political calls - while the authority side relies on being able to deal with them. I registered that the council was shaking my head when I claimed that wind power is not a priority in the NVE. As far as we have seen through the media and the statements of the Council of State, there are three priority areas: Middle Norway, water and the Internet. Is it that wind power is now suddenly high on this priority list?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e325	With regard to the desire of the Progress Party for national plans in all areas, I would simply like to say that I am more concerned that we should use our time now to bring forward renewable energy, take concrete action that will result - rather than that we should use our capacity to create more bureaucracy and create unnecessary plans, which we are talking about in this case, because we are asking that the states make plans at a level that makes sense where we are now, in terms of wind power development. If we go further, we're quick to get to what's going to go into a real concessional treatment. With regard to the NVE’s priorities, it would be a matter of course that when we add up to a new and more comprehensive investment aid scheme, it would have to mean that the NVE prioritised these issues higher than they did at a time when there was no funds available.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e332	Although the Council of State expressed hope that a certificate agreement with Sweden will be in place quickly, there is little evidence today that an agreement is in place by 1 July this year. Rather, the possibility of this being exposed for a significant amount of time is clearly present. In this context, the climate agreement has taken into account that if no agreement is in place, arrangements in the renewable sector are to be made which are at least as good as a licence agreement will involve. What kind of concrete signals is the Council of State now able to give to the hundreds of applicants in terms of small power and wind power? What can they expect to do by 1 July to speed up the renewable sector in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e339	We are in dialogue with the Swedish authorities about a green certification market. I have to report in good time before 1 July to the Stortinget about where we stand in that work. I can't go into those discussions right now, because we have an understanding with our Swedish friends that we shouldn't do that while we're in the process. I'd rather be sure to be respected by Stortinget. What I'm going to promise is that the Storting will get good information in good time before 1 July about where we stand. I am still optimistic about getting a green certificate market in place. What will be absolutely necessary is the fact that we have good transitional arrangements in place. That's what we're working on in our conversations with the Swedes. If before 1 July it was to take a picture that there would be no green certificate market, I had to engage in close dialogue with our friends in the climate agreement. I promise that there will be a good process around it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e348	The Council of State said in its speech that an extended support scheme is just around the corner -- considering, through Enova, to trigger the 1.5 TWh wind power we need by 2010, which is set as a target. I feel that the Council of State is busy putting in place wind power development. That's how I've experienced it throughout her entire period. But the NVE has set priority criteria for the treatment of concession requests. They are from 2008 and are in consultation with the Ministry of Oil and Energy. Under “wind power” it is not said that this is a priority area. Is it true that this list of priorities of the NVE will be changed after a new financial support system is in place? Or will these priority criteria be established as developed in 2008?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e357	In the subsequent interpellation, we will return to the case handler's capacity. I would also like to focus a little on what is the priority list in the NVE right now. But it turns out that we need to adjust these priority lists when we're now making provision for more wind power projects to be triggered. In the follow-up debate, I'm going to be clear that yes, we're going to engage in a dialogue with the NVE with a view to adjusting these priorities. Then, for the sake of order, I would just like to clarify what I said to Solvik-Olsen's representative: it is not a lack of money in Enova that has contributed to the fact that we have not triggered wind power projects, but it is that we have been so restrictive at the level of aid. There has been too little money in the sense that you have not been willing to set up enough money to trigger the projects. That's what's real, and that's what we're going to change now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e364	It's kind of interesting to see that when the government is pressured on wind power, a priority is going to be wind power, while in all other contexts it hasn't been a priority area. It shows a little bit of the lack of predictability that is for the power industry. All the way, when they complain, they talk to the different industries after their backs, but one is unable to deliver any strategically predictable document for treatment in the Stortinget that sets out some guidelines. Our wish for a national plan is just that you get predictability that in a way becomes a confirmed policy, not just a constant media play from the Government. We want bureaucracy to avoid spending a lot of time dealing with concession requests that are not desirable for political or other reasons. This is not about more bureaucracy, it is about less bureaucracy. We want one to be based on stately plans, so it should be very easy to make such a national plan. We want to respect what local democracy stands for. That's exactly what's been the problem, that local democracy says one thing, while the NVE likes to push them to the opposite. The Council of State will support the fact that when a municipality makes a reservation against e.g. wind power, shall it be respected by national authorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e371	What is said by the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen now is interesting, because he says completely different things than what is in the proposal from the Progress Party. What he is now saying is that it will be a simple matter to create this national plan based on state-of-the-art plans. If that's what we're looking for, cutting together the spatial plans and putting them together in a document, it's usually quite unproblematic and very simple, and we can do that. But that is not what the Committee on the Rules of Procedure proposes. That's where you think you should go deeper into this. It will only mean one thing, and that is more bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e376	If this had been a line to the Progress Party, I would ask how a party that is concerned about local acceptance for wind turbines will prepare the basis for local acceptance for nuclear power plants - but we'll have to take that on another occasion. County plans are now being made for wind power in several counties. My first question to the Council of State relates to the weight she believes these plans should be added. The second is whether or not one of the departments can contribute to the creation of more such plans and that there is a transfer of experience from the different counties, so that one through it processes the planning and quality of these plans. It will prepare the groundwork and give legitimacy to investment in wind power generation, and it shows that one seriously wants to balance interests in a proper and good way at local level, where one best sees the conflicts that need to be balanced.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e385	I believe that the representative Kvassheim and I are equally concerned that we should take care of the views that are found locally. So it's a challenge to figure out how to do this concretely. I believe that the state plans must be given considerable weight. I am also concerned that several states should make such plans. That's why we encourage the NVE to assist the states with this, so that they get started more easily. I also think the signal effect of that we have now got up some plans, will be good, and we see that there is interest in the counties besides those I referred to. In view of the local concerns related to the environmental impacts of wind power, I would just say that what we have to do at first is at least to try to trigger the projects that are at least controversial. Once again, it's lucky that we have a lot of projects lying around that we can define in the category not uncontroversial, but ‘a little controversial’.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e393	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e398	Having heard this debate, I think there are some obvious logical flaws in other representatives. One has taken his old posts from two and three years back and just washed the dust off them and used them again, without actually dealing with what is in this proposal. For this proposal is not identical to what has been advanced before. It's nice that there's a light coming up for the Council of State in the last line. But it's a little bit late. Yes, we've always said that the goal is not to create a national plan corresponding to an overall plan for hydropower. Then I would have accepted the argument that this would train the entire bet. The point is that we want to get ahead of the good projects by killing the bad projects, so that the NVE doesn't have to spend a lot of time on projects that will never be realized or are wanted to be realized. Then we have to make sure that when one combines state-of-the-art sub-plans where there is, but also plans in the counties where there is no one, it is coordinated with the authorities' procedural capacity. Such things will be no work, even if a wind power plan is being developed in Rogaland. That is, of course, where the Council of State is not willing to take responsibility for national authorities, but simply shift it over to state authorities. We want to realize the good projects, as mentioned, and then it's a little strange that the representative Kristiansen from the Right is voting against the proposal, when he wants more wind power. We've seen the same measures. The question is: are we, as politicians, to take action here in addition to encouraging the energy industry to build more, when we do not follow up ourselves, either with adequate support schemes or with officials who can deal with this? A national plan will be drawn up by the Government. There is nothing in the proposal that dictates how this national plan should be. Here the government has full rights and possibilities to formulate this just as one will, and then come back to the Storing with it. Then one will, if one is to believe in this offensive attitude of the government parties, get to a very good plan that gets things realized. But it's precisely because they obviously don't know how to do it, because they don't want to have to put anything on the paper either, because then they know that they'll be more exposed to criticism. Then to the representative of Langeland with his many impeccable sleigh park. It's a little strange to hear, because SV was the party in Stortinget that supported such a proposal during the previous period, a proposal that was even more restrictive then. But now that we've been much more liberal in letting the government itself determine the content, SV votes against. So in the last period, they were in favour. Langeland must see himself in the mirror! We want the decisions of local democracy in these matters, as opposed to the Government, which allows the NVE to override the Austevoll municipality. When Austevoll says no to one of four wind power projects, the government of NVE Austevoll forces to say yes to all four. It's not local democracy! A national plan will enable the authorities to set up so that the municipalities know where to place the aid and the non-compulsory municipalities can say no. There are enough municipalities that want wind power projects. Let those municipalities speak up. Let us not make the level of conflict higher than is necessary by pressing the municipalities that are partially open, but still have some reservations, to take the wind power project. Let's realize them where they are good. The proposal is good. Ivarta the reasons. Vote for it!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e413	In this debate there is -- I don't know if I dare to call it -- a misunderstanding, but at least a very open question, and it's: what does the Progress Party actually propose? Because when Ketil Solvik-Olsen is standing on this pulpit, it sounds like he wants to cut and paste from existing estate plans and put it in a hurry, as the council said. However, the proposal we are discussing states the following: ‘This plan must reflect, inter alia, the overall development plans, the need for grid deployment, the potential for industrial and technological development, the environmental impact of wind farms and related network investments. In addition, the interests of travel, local business, employment and local democracy must be taken into account.» This is something completely different than a composition of state plans. So the question that the Progress Party has to answer is, do they propose what is contained in the proposal that the Storting has been addressed? Or do they propose a booklet of state plans, where the state is responsible and the challenge of designing plans when it comes to wind power?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e425	SV is very pleased that the climate agreement involves a bet on green certificates - just to clarify it for the Christian People's Party and the Left. We're very happy because it now seems to be a green certificate market. But it's actually six years late, we can say. I thought what the Progress Party is now focusing on in its final posts is very interesting. It turns out that the proposal for a national plan for wind power comes because the party-driven Austevoll cannot reserve itself against wind power. So, this is actually a plan to avoid wind power, so you can understand Solvik-Olsen. We have to figure out what this plan is all about, given that the end of the debate is that Austevoll is not allowed to say no. It's going to be interesting to hear that. So I just have to say that there are some states that are on the offensive, that are trying to create stately planes, and that get it done. It is clear that we would like to see better progress in the NVE’s proceedings, but that comes back to us. So finally, the Progress Party has been involved in adopting the national budget three times with the Bondevik II government. I cannot see that there has ever been an offensive commitment to new renewable energy or to strengthening NVE procedural capacity, for example. So the Progress Party has a lot to answer for. It is important to bring forward the debate when they themselves put their heads on the barrel. Then I'll reflect, Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e436	Ketil Solvik-Olsen has spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e439	I think the last two posts show that someone consciously wants to misunderstand. I have to ask you, what are the current state plans to contain if they are not to contain just reflections on housing patterns, tourism, etc.? We see that, the content is already there. Therefore, there is no contradiction between national plans and national plans. But as the representative said, not all states have this today. That's why you want a national plan, so that you can, as we write in the setting, ‘ensure a better dimensioning of the authority body, framework conditions and objectives, so that they are in a proper relationship with each other’. They don't do that today. That's why this is important. The representative of Langeland obviously just wants to quiver. A national plan with regard to Austevoll: The Austrian Municipality, where the Progress Party rules, has said yes to three out of four wind power projects, but then they are ordered by the national authorities to say yes to the fourth. That's where this becomes unreasonable, and that's where we should have had a plan from the authorities that shows predictability, not a plan where you say the states are going to make a plan, but if that plan doesn't fit the government, it overrides it. Here the government should be predictable, so that wind power can be realized in all municipalities where it is desirable. The aim of the Progress Party is not to scrape things here, but actually to reduce the level of conflict, so that the good projects can be realized.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e453	It's worrying that the representative Langeland is suffering from selective memory, and I would recommend that the announced mirror does not get a scale that makes a drudgery keep up with history. In fact, the Bondevik II administration provided easier and faster treatment for small power plants. Changes were made to the concession rules so that the smallest small power plants were removed from the concession scheme. A number of other steps were also taken with which the industry was very satisfied. It is also true that in recent years there has been an increase in the processing capacity of the NVE, but an even greater increase in the number of applications. So this was a problem earlier, but it's a bigger problem now. Finally, I would like to reflect a little around the reasons for the Advance Party's proposal. They say they want to take local democracy seriously. At the same time, this national plan shall inform the municipalities of what they are allowed to do and of what they are not allowed to do. If a national plan is to have a value and a local anchor, there must be an absolute pre-requisite that there must be consultations in the individual municipality and in the individual counties that allow them to be recorded before a centralized restriction or opening. It will be a consequence of the fact that the Progress Party justifies this by taking local democracy seriously. But finally, that's not what this is about. It's about giving a central dictatorship and setting a framework, and then it's quite obvious that making stately plans is much better, much more accurate, in this interaction between the superiors and the local interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e464	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 2591]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e482	In fact, there has been a long-standing problem that there is too little procedural capacity in Norway's watercourse and energy directorate in relation to the number of concession applications related to small-scale power and wind power deployments. This has resulted in an excessive processing time and queue of notification and concession cases in the NVE, which has become an ever-increasing problem primarily for the actors in the power industry, but also for the Government and the Storting, who are increasingly struggling to achieve their energy policy objectives. For several years, the Norwegian authorities have encouraged the development of micro, mini and small power plants and wind power plants, but this call has not been followed up with sufficient human resources from the concession authorities to be able to escape the many applications from the developers when they have seriously begun to flow in. Despite awareness of the growing demand and capacity problems in the NVE, too little seems to have been done to improve this unsustainable condition due to understaffing in the concession department of the directorate. The Executive Director of NVE, Agnar Aas, has clearly pointed out that the NVE concession department is no longer able to keep pace with the rapidly increasing amount of application, and that therefore a long duration of treatment has to be considered. Long-term frustration due to the strong increase in the number of jobs in the directorate has become so high that the self-director of the concession department in the NVE recently felt compelled to resign his position in protest at the lack of staffing by the concession department, which gives unacceptable length of treatment to the developers and operators in the power industry. The outgoing director stated that the length of the proceedings undermines the entire concession process and the trust of the concession authorities. This is a clear speech that we must take note of. It is also part of the story that that concession director had, in fact, fought for a whole five years for a necessary increase in staffing in the department, but without hearing for his point of view. The figures are about the large increase in the number of concession applications is clear, as in recent years there has been almost an explosion in the interest of expanding small scale hydropower production and wind power in Norway. While in 2006, there were around 250 small-scale projects with a total production capacity of about 200. 3 TWh in treatment queues in NVE, this increased the number in 2007 to a total of 370 projects of approximately 370. 4.1 TWh, which is now waiting for treatment or being treated in the directorate. With an annual processing capacity in the NVE of approx. So 70 small-power cases, and with 370 lying around, it could take five years just to get away from the existing treatment queue. And in addition to the projects already in the treatment queue, we have to assume that it will flow on with ever more new applications for small scale hydroelectric expansions to the directorate. We have to remember that the theoretical power potential for micro, mini and small power plants is of NVE calculated for a total of 25 TWh, and of this significant potential it is estimated that a total of 10 TWh can be realised within economically and technically sound frameworks. We must therefore be able to expect further new applications from the power industry at the NVE table on perhaps about 5-6 TWh small scale hydropower expansion in the coming years. And without a significant increase in the procedural capacity of the concession authorities, we can have a waiting time that can be even more years longer than it actually is today. It can then really be critical in meeting the targets of 12 TWh new renewable energy by 2010 or 30 TWh by 2016. Today's situation with an excessive length of proceedings in the NVE for this type of case, is totally unsustainable, and that is, as I see it, directly scandalous. Why something not too far has been done, appears to me as a mere mystery. Especially at a time when almost all of the parties on the Storting agree to increase the investment in more renewable energy production in Norway, we cannot live with such a plug in the system that this year-long process queue in the Directorate represents. In addition, 26 major hydroelectric power installations of more than 10 MW, of a total of 2,4 TWh, are also located in the notification or application phase of the NVE. So, in total, there's only applications in hydropower, as I'm informed, at 6-7 TWh at NVE, and we know that these are very labour-intensive issues. This significant planned new capacity of 6-7 TWh corresponds - if all of these projects are approved - to an increase in Norwegian hydropower production of about 5 pst., i.e. equivalent to 10-twelve Alta power plants. This represents a magnitude in terms of power generation measured in TWh, which we sorely need to develop in Norway as quickly as possible. The force balance in Norway and the Nordic region has become increasingly tight over the last 10-15 years, and the need for improved security of supply is urgent, while increasing value creation in District Norway is needed. Realising more hydropower generation in the small-scale segment contributes in itself, a long way on the road at least, to addressing key energy policy and district policy challenges we face in Norway. When we are familiar with all the positive effects of increasing power generation in Norway based on renewable energy sources, it is paradoxical that we are unable to realise more power development quickly enough, just because we are unable to increase the procedural capacity of the concession authorities that seem to be almost detonated today. And as if there was not enough of the endless treatment queues for hydropower expansions, NVE also has approx. 130 wind turbines for treatment, while the processing capacity in wind power, as far as I am informed, are modest three-four cases a year. In fact, with today’s treatment capacity, it can take more than 20 years to get away from just the wind power requests that are on the table of the NVE today. The understaffing of the NVE concession department is therefore a bottleneck in improving the security of electricity supply in the Norwegian and Nordic electricity markets. It is very remarkable that such a paradoxical plug in power development has not been solved too far, as long as we have known about this problem, and when we see the significant energy challenges we are facing in the years to come. I therefore hope today for a positive response from the Council of State to the problem that I am addressing in this interview, so that we can start cleaning up this bottleneck as soon as possible and get the process speeded up by the NVE concession authorities. I would therefore like the Council of State to comment on what she thinks must be done. Is it only re-disposal of the crews internally in the NVE she thinks is the most important? She sees an opportunity - which we have discussed in Stortinget in the past - to delegate the concession authority to the municipalities, for example. in the case of micro and mini-power plants and perhaps the smallest small-scale power plants? And can the Council of State consider setting deadlines for the period for notifying or applying for a project to have to wait for a response from the concession authorities? I look forward to the Council's answer, and to her addressing some of the issues I have raised here in my article.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e503	There has been a very strong growth in the number of concession applications for power lines, wind power, hydropower and district heating in the latent years. However, if the large growth in the number of applications received has increased and the duration of proceedings, it is a fact that strengthening and improving the efficiency of NVE’s concessional treatment capacity has resulted in effective treatment time per year. cases have been reduced in recent years and the number of pending applications per year. years are increasing. This is a seaworthy reason to rejoice over. On 21 February of this year, the NVE sent out a press release entitled ‘Recording minor power concessions last year’. Having said that, I believe that the process period in a number of renewable areas is too long and that is why we are also implementing further measures. But it's important not to contribute to over-painting this. There is a shorter procedure time, and several cases are dealt with, but there is still a need to deal with additional cases. And that's a positive move, because we're busy getting up the renewable share. Then it's good that there's great enthusiasm for being part of this. During the period 2003-2007, authorisations were granted for the construction of hydropower with a production of about 5 TWh per year. years. During the same period, 11 wind turbines were finally granted a concession. In addition, the NVE has granted 11 concessions that are contested and are being treated in the OED. It is therefore wrong to focus only on the fact that there are many projects in line for treatment. It's important to realize that things happen. And the most important thing for power supply and local business development is despite the fact that the number of concessions given and the number of pending applications per. years, has risen sharply. But, as I said, we should not settle down and accept the long process queues in the NVE. It's a problem that a lot of things stay unsolved for a long time. It's a challenge for the power supply, because we need more power, and it's a challenge for those who have applications. Therefore, the NVE’s capacity for the concession treatment of energy measures is strengthened in 2007 and further strengthened in 2008. This is achieved both by increasing the total amount of resources and by redispatching within the NVE. So that's how things are done. I believe that there is a need to provide additional capacity for processing beyond 2008, but it is also important that we further streamline the process. That work has started, but it has to go on. Regional coordination of wind and transmission line concession treatment will not only provide an improved decision-making base but also synergies by bringing together inspections and public meetings. I put a lot of emphasis on this, because we're concerned that we should have good dialogue with the communities to find the best solutions. But this is usually time-consuming. In the follow-up to studies and consultations to evaluate the Energy Act, other measures to improve the efficiency and coordination of network and production development will also be considered, for this is undoubtedly also a bottleneck in relation to the development of renewable energy. The conclusions of this work will be presented to Stortinget when they are ready. In order to make the most of existing case handling capacity at NVE, it is rational in St.prp. No 1 for 2007-2008 specified that the concession treatment of projects that can contribute to enhancing security of supply shall be allocated the largest share of the available resources. This means that the NVE should give priority to electricity lines in the central and regional networks, the second priority being hydropower and district heating. This does not mean that other lower priority types of cases are to be eliminated, but that issues within the priority areas will have a greater share of available resources. The process capacity of the NVE in terms of wind power has reflected this in the sense that there has been a recognition that wind power has not been able to be triggered by the aid regimes that are now in place. With a strengthening of the investment aid, to which the Government is now adding, to wind power within today's Notified Scheme, these priorities will be reviewed, as we have already discussed in the previous case, seasily, because now we see the possibilities for getting more projects up. But let me now make one point, namely that improving the efficiency of the procedure does not have to be at the expense of quality. A one-sided focus on reducing the duration of treatment of NVE for concessional applications would not be appropriate. Time and resources are required to carry out sound, comprehensive assessments and a treatment that includes impact assessments, hearings, public meetings, inspections, etc. within statutory requirements. We need to be sure that the decisions that are taken stand for posterity. In addition, the very high number of concession applications is increasing the need to see the issues in context and to assess the total impact. Therefore, in recent years, action has been taken to strengthen the decision-making basis for the concession treatment, including regional coordination and the establishment of guidelines for wind power and small hydropower plants. With regard to the question from the representative Andersen to set specific time limits for the duration of the procedure, it is not difficult to see the desirability of it, because it creates predictability. At the same time, I would warn against it, because the issues are so different, and because we very often end up in a situation of complaint handling. And how much time you have to spend on complaint handling will vary enormously. Therefore, I would not recommend that you start moving towards setting deadlines. What we have to do, on the other hand, is to ensure that we further streamline decision-making procedures, as far as it is sound, and that we help to have more qualified people to do the job. There is a lot of exciting happening in the field of renewable energy by day. That's good. It's supposed to be the Storting. I am pleased that we have the new investment aid scheme for wind power right around the corner. I'm glad we're going to present the bioenergy strategy in a few hours. A lot happens in this area. We are excited about the will that exists around the country to be part of the great effort that it is to get renewable energy up to the extent that we want in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e533	I listened with interest and thanked the Council of State for the answer, but I was not quite convinced that the content of the answer is enough to solve the capacity problems that I am addressing in this interview. There is, of course, an opportunity for the Council of State to redispatch resources internally in the NVE. As for what the Council of State said about adding more resources, I would later like to have an answer to what is in it. Can we expect some more resources already in the revised national budget, so that one can also generally strengthen the staffing of the concession department? And this by streamlining, as the Council of State said, what's in it? Could it be possible here, as the Council of State probably wasn't, to delegate some of these issues, that is, delegate the concession authority, to the respective municipality? That would be a good contribution to bringing down the queue of things that are being treated. With regard to the Council of State mentioned with priority lists, it is clear that there is something here too. But if you give priority to one, you have to deprioritize the other, so it is not certain that it is the very best solution. I remember that the great project of oil and energy minister Hagas when she joined was to make a greater effort for renewable energy after her predecessor failed to do so in particular. So the government has now talked and talked about taking a cap on renewable energy. In my view, the ambitions have been considerably greater than the practical power of action to achieve something. I hope there is hope, but then the oil and energy minister must intervene resolutely and immediately ensure that there is at least sufficient treatment capacity in the NVE, so that we can start increasing renewable energy deployment as quickly as possible. The Council of State has also stated that she has realised that there needs to be more resources in the NVE, and that it is absolutely a challenge to do so, but that she should do something about it as soon as possible. Therefore, in this inter-pelling debate, the Council of State should signal that more money is to be made already in the revised national budget. I also hope during this debate to get clear signals from the Council of State that she can at least consider transferring the concession authority to the municipalities for a limited period of time, at least for micro and mini-power plants below 1 MW, so that we can get away from part of the heavy queue. As she also mentioned, the amount of the case is likely to only increase and increase, because the proceedings are large, and new applications flow into the concession authorities as never before.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e542	As I have said up to several times, the NVE has been allocated more resources. I see the need for the NVE to be allocated additional resources, but the system is such that I cannot stand on the Spokesman's Chair, whether it is on 1 April or another date, and talk about what comes in the revised national budget and in the budget for 2009, but I suppose I have sent a signal about what I am working on, when I say that I believe there is a need for greater procedural capacity in the NVE. As well as all of these things, whether we're talking about small power, wind power or anything, are controversial, and it ends up with complaints. The first round of the appeal proceedings takes place in NVE. It is labour-intensive for the NVE to deal with complaints, but it is also labour-intensive for the ministry, until the seventh and last time these cases end up in the ministry. So we have to work to strengthen the whole chain in terms of processing capacity. It doesn't just keep strengthening the NVE. We also need to strengthen the department in order to get a good chain. It is, to be perfectly honest, also a fact that it is not just the NVE that is a bottleneck today. There is also a bottleneck called the Ministry of Oil and Energy, and there is a significant amount of complaint handling. So when applications to the NVE are running, it has consequences for the whole chain, and my task is to make this whole chain work. There are two things that should be noted: we have done more than we have done, and that is good, but there are still long queues that need to be handled. As regards the question of delegation to the municipalities, the representative is aware that there is a matter under discussion at regular and irregular intervals. For the time being, there is no political consensus that this should be done. It is undoubtedly a theme that will also appear in the future. I believe it is important to stress that it is not an easy task for the municipalities to take over this work. Substantial competence will be required, and extensive systems in municipalities will have to be built if one is to think about this, because these matters are very complex and demanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e556	I have followed both in the previous debate and in this debate, and if it was just about what the representatives of the Progress Party are now promoting now, to increase the processing capacity of the NVE, then it is a formal and straightforward matter. But the whole basis for the question of the interpellation is quite the opposite of what the vast majority of the Grand Duchy has previously adopted in respect of the proceedings. I think it's important to clarify that. We're also going to have a little bit of history here. Now my memory might be a little wrong, of course -- it's happened. It happened three or four years ago, but now I think it's patent. It was the Christian People's Party that promoted a concrete proposal of 2 million. kr to increase the processing capacity of the NVE. The other parties had only a few comments on this matter. So the government has increased the processing capacity in NVE by 10-20 pst. Just in 2007, and we've also strengthened it by a total of five million. kr in 2008. It's a significant reinforcement. But what I also think we should be very happy about, is that there is a lot of attention around this, many have submitted applications both in terms of wind power and mini and small power plants, etc. They are involved in the construction of the country -- the new energy, new renewable energy. You have to be very happy about that. But we need some driving rules. In our democracy, these driving rules also have their negative sides. It takes some time to get everything in place. I also think we should be aware of that. As the Council of State also said, we need to have a proper handling of these applications, but it can't be so fast that it goes at the expense of everything else. It has been stated in the notification following notification and in decisions taken in the Storting that renewable energy should not lead to the loss of the diverse outdoor life and the large landscape values we have in Norway. We have also said that it should not be such that every nose along our entire coast and every single stream throughout Norway is to be expanded. No, no, no. When we have these big headlines that we've adopted and that we've been on, it takes a lot of us. It also requires that we have a proper processing time. What we said in St.prp. No 1 for 2007-2008, something has to go ahead. And if we think about it, there's logic in what we've said. It's the logic that we're going to have the central and regional networks in place. Many of us who are now sitting in this room were last week at the conference on small power plants. What they pointed out as one of the big challenges was just to get hooked online. Yeah, it's our responsibility to get the web in place, so you can do it. But it's not done with a pen stroke when one submits an application. If the NVE says no, the matter is okay, then you anchor up. This also takes time. It is then that one must have this central and regional network in place. Then we have decided that hydropower and district heating systems should be given priority. This also means that the other areas have a lower priority. In other words, there are sound and comprehensive assessments, and all these include impact assessments. It's hearings, it's public meetings, it's inspections, it's draft law, etc. This is where we have to make sure that the decisions we make are right. I am the first to regret that it takes some time, but it is also because there are a huge number of applications that have been received. But we've adopted some driving rules in the name of democracy that make it not just to say that here we're going to rush off the farm and finish it. I can just take an example. It's not that easy to stretch power lines here in Norway. It also helps to limit certain areas in Norway where we could be much easier on the road in terms of power supply. But if we look at the hearings that have been, all the public meetings that have been, etc., it is not a local decision that can be taken, as the Progress Party was about. We cannot have it so that a municipality like a large power line should go over, have said yes, and then the next municipality says no, and then it stops there. [[The President clubs.]] So there's an overall assessment that needs to be made, and that we encourage the municipalities and the counties to do in cooperation. And that's what they're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e569	After an overall assessment, 5 minutes have passed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e572	Let me start by saying that the NVE is made up of nice people. When we're out there hitting the energy industry, we're constantly getting feedback about how professional they are. But regardless of whether a person gets his project approved or rejected, most people reflect that there are people who know what they're talking about, they're dealing with. So the problem isn't the competence that's in the NVE, as the industry is at least experiencing it. The problem, seen from above, is like Bjørn Wold, director of the NVE's concession and supervision department, said: the problem is that there are so great expectations from the political team that the NVE is unable to deal with them, because they are overwhelmed by applications that are usually due to an overoptimism from the energy industry, because the politicians have said that now there is wind power. Then it goes six months, and then bioenergy is going to be our green gold. Then there's hydro, there's small force, and then there's also a part of the government that sometimes talks really great about gas power. After all, it is not nice that the industry takes the politicians to heart and follows up on applications. The problem is that politicians, magnification and government, see only a political gain in their objectives communicated through the media, but not in practice enough follow-up with appropriations, concession rules, etc. Then it's the NVE that's sitting in the chess mat. Politicians are always able to adapt to this. Line Henriette Holten Heimdal mentioned the redemption of 3 TWh wind to be realised by 2010. Let's hope we get to that. I record that the Council of State has said that it is not necessarily that it should be completed in 2010, which is valid anymore. Now it is enough that it has been contracted in Enova. And the gods know when contractual projects are actually realized. It might as well be 2020. Here we see that the political one always gets away from this, but the NVE gets stuck with the guilt and with the frustrations. Then I heard that Holten Hemdal referred to the 2008 NVE's work strategy. We have to assume that it has been reviewed only a few months ago, but has already changed. It's all right, but it only shows how short-term the government's policy in this area is, when this contract, which started to apply from January, was modified, not after four months, now we're in April, but probably already after two months. Then the Minister of Energy was going up to Middle Norway to meet energy people and politicians in Middle Norway who were angry because nothing is being done about the power situation. Then it was convenient to have 500 million. kr for wind power - not 500 mill. Fresh crowns, but 500 million. kr that she took from the budget that has already been allocated. In that sense, there is no new money, but it appears to be a big investment. Just then, wind power fit well, because the alternative in Middle Norway is gas power, and it is politically dead for this government. Then it's interesting to know when we're going to have to put wind energy so high, whether it's only Mid-Norway, or whether it's general. This initiative will be open to all wind power projects throughout Norway, or only the three projects mentioned, for example: Outer Vakna? It is relevant for the wind power industry to know when suddenly we are about to give higher priority to wind power. It is not surprising that NVE is frustrated when such working papers are constantly changing due to political media playback. It is important to have better informed and well-thought-out policy plans, so that we avoid the fact that the energy industry appears almost like a bulldozer. For a long time they have not been allowed to invest very much, because what they were good at, big hydropower projects, was put to death. So there's been a lot of talk about wind power. Now it becomes so that when one opens a lock, everyone who has capital comes, and then this appears to be a bulldozer and creates conflicts. Then a lot of applications in the NVE, but very little that is realized because the support schemes, which are finally going to be involved and fund this, are too bad. As a result, there will be a load on the NVE without one getting results in terms of much more energy production. In the case of the proceedings, one should consider getting simpler concession rules in some areas, so that the NVE does not have to go in as much detail on absolutely all matters. There are differences between small-scale projects and large dams, hydropower projects. Do you have to go through the exact same thing? Both the power industry and the NVE experience it as unnecessarily heavy in some cases. Is it possible to delegate more to local authorities? Is there a very big difference between, for example, Lidl had to build a very warehouse in the municipality of Os, or can you build a small power plant in the same area? Can't local politicians be allowed to influence both sides? Once there is water inside the picture, it goes right to national authorities, instead of allowing local authorities to control it. Here should be a much more complete thought. Just like in the wind power industry, we see that we're going from case to case instead of getting the overall approach, where things are being dimensioned in relation to each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e593	I am seriously afraid that the enthusiasts we have in Norway today - there are quite a few - who want to develop new renewable energy in Norway, after today's debate cannot throw the training gear. For the husband of series with excuses that we are in the situation we are today! Whether it is due to the date we have today or whether it is due to other conditions, I dare not go into it. But we all know that the director of the NVE's concession and supervision department many years ago warned about this situation that we could be at risk. It just struck me what kind of fate those applications at the bottom of the pile are suffering. When you talk about the opposition painting black in today's debate, you can only imagine what kind of hue these applications are going to be in sunlight at the bottom of a big pile in the NVE, gets. The opposition is not blackpainting. We're just drawing the picture of the landscape just like it is. I think after listening to representatives from the position parties and from the Council of State, what the rhetoric would have been like if the Council of State, Hallgeir Langeland or Tore Nordtun had been sitting in opposition and dealing with today's case. In time, we will solve the very small challenge, and I think we will be happy for the need to put in place far more renewable energy than is the case today. We're all talking about rolling out a red race for those who can help to achieve the goals we've set ourselves through the climate deal and through other decisions in the Stortinget where there's no lack of bold goals. Then, on the other hand, it's a self-recognition when the state council Haga in today's debate says it's a fact that it takes too long. I think that's right, but it's a mild description. Then the other one points out that it takes time, and it has to take time. Time is a resource. If there's something we don't have too much of when we're dealing with the question of setting up fast renewable energy, then it's time. We're short on time. We have to have action in place. That's what this is all about. We're going to have 30 TW of new renewable energy in place in Norway over a seven-eight year period. The view must be firmly attached towards the goal that we have all set. Then we cannot have bottlenecks at the level we have today. Therefore, in the context of the 2007 budget, the Right proposed strengthening the NVE procedural capacity by 7 million. kr. When we did not repeat this proposal, which was voted down, it was in safe assurance in the light of the Government's promise that this would be settled in 2008. That's unfortunately the opposite that's happened. When climate objectives and the production of new renewable energy are so closely linked today, we must not take this area as easily as current government parties do. And the fact that we get anchors in place is the greatest of course and the most predictable thing we have around these questions. We are no longer in a situation where we can choose all solutions in Norway on the top shelf. And when we have approx. 500 projects that my predecessor as Vice President of the Energy Committee called for potable projects - and that's not a bad expression - show that even if we can handle some sixty applications per year. years, we're not near to achieving the goals we've set ourselves. This means time lost. That means we're leaking capital from Norway out of the country. Rather, the best forces find reason to invest and invest in joy for the rest of the world, and that means that we lose knowledge. Then I expect the Council of State in the revised national budget to come up with a solution that is credible in terms of how to increase procedural capacity, how to achieve the objectives we have of putting new renewable energy into place in Norway. The simplest of these solutions is to shift some of the processing capacity down to the municipal level.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e610	I have often said that one of the most important things can do if one wants things to happen within this area and in other areas is to keep the representative Kristiansen, the Christian People's Party and others out of government offices, because it's only when they come out of government offices that they make good suggestions. When they sit with the power itself on the other hand, little or no thing happens. So it's okay for us to take us on that if we keep Kristians out of government offices, it'll be action. And that's what the Council of State is now showing. Many of us here have been concerned about the capacity and efficiency that have been in this area for a long time. It has also been brought up with the Government. And when the state council today says that it's important to do something about, we've done a lot, but we're going to do more, a well-informed answer can't be better than that. I don't understand that there should be a defensive answer. On the contrary, she says that she takes seriously the problem that the Progress Party and the representative Andersen are addressing here. To do something with it - more than what you've already done. I think that's a good answer. But it is possible that Kristiansen in position himself had a much better answer, but I doubt that. If so, it would have had something to do with the date. Of course, I'm going to say that the government's policy is working, because now one sees that there's a lot of growth in the investment of new renewable energy, and that's true. Of course, it's part of the government that can take credit for it, but I also believe that what has happened now to the climate agreement, makes even more people see that this is a predictable policy -- that this is actually going to be something. And what I think is that the market is even more hot for new renewable energy than he would have been without this climate agreement and a bad climate policy. That's why it's very strange for me to listen to these progress party representatives talking about predictability. What's most certain about predictability here is just keeping progress party politics away, because they think there's no climate problem. If they become too big and the government option includes the Progress Party - this to Kristiansen - it means a weakening of the predictability that such a government will have, i.e. less investment in new renewable energy. There must be a crossroads for those who are now arguing between themselves on the political side. Then one must say that the market within fossil energy is important here. There is no doubt that high prices of oil and gas - and also in a number of other areas - stimulate a commitment to new renewable energy, because that will make it more profitable. There is something of the philosophy behind green certificates, etc. There's also a strange phenomenon here, because as soon as the price gets higher on diesel, like me. can be used to even four cars, what does one do? So then the Progress Party is going to hand out money to bring down the taxes, so take away income from the treasury that we could have used for new renewable energy. They're going to be glad they can run even more cars and pollute even more. Is this predictability? If the price goes up a little, the Progress Party says that then we should reduce the fees so that we get less revenue, and so that we can pollute more. This is not predictability at all, this is the opposite. And it's strange that one then screams at more predictability, when one's own politics stands for the opposite. I'm very happy that you have a climate deal that's now kind of going to trigger a national effort. So, as state councillor Åslaug Haga said, one is going to bet on a bioenergy plan -- 100 million. I saw a TV yesterday - and that means a very bet here. In other areas it must also bet. We simply discussed this with wind power, and we have also seen the same thing in other areas that have affected the climate - yesterday was the Westfold Railway Regeninga bet. A number of things point in a positive direction when it comes to the climate. When it comes to procedure - to get back to it - I thought that the Council of State had met the interpellant in a good way. We have to be sure, then, when we process, that we don't do things that go beyond the biological diversity, that we don't do things that go beyond the protection of the landscape, etc. If we were to follow the Progress Party's development policy there, I am afraid that our national bird would soon have to move to Sweden, because then there were no waterfalls left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e624	I'm not going to let it become a habit, but I also have to start my post this time to make the representative Langeland a little visit, because SV is in government and is calling for help from the opposition. I can refer to the statements from Langeland, from the then representative of the big business Heidi Sørensen, from Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen and from then Minister of Environmental Protection Helen Bjørnøy, who all called for help from the opposition on the day the climate communication was presented. On the day we were to sit down at the negotiating table, the case-rapporteur, Ms. Inga Marte Thorkildsen, gave a clear message to the opposition as to what she needed help with. That's the SV's way of being in government - asking on their knees for help from the opposition. Today's interpellant topic is an important one. This theme is just one of many obstacles faced by renewable energy producers. Being a renewable energy developer today is like running hedgerows. There are many different hedges that need to be secured, hedges at least 1,10 meters. Providing a good application for wind power, small power or other renewable energy is important. However, it must be allowed to ask questions as to whether the level of detail of these applications is necessary. For many of the builders, it is seen as one of the first obstacles in the hedge. Obstacle No 2 as the current interpellation debate is about, that NVE has too few case handlers, and that there is a long time to deal with it. I am pleased that the Council of State said in its statement that the processing time is too long. I'm glad she's taking the opportunity to increase resources in 2008. I expect this increase to come in the revised national budget now in May. It is important, as the Council of State pointed out, to ensure good quality of treatment on the part of the NVE. Therefore, time and resources are important in the course of treatment. The Christian People's Party raised more money on this item in its alternative budget for 2008. We knew about these issues and showed them through a concrete proposal for funding. When concessions are given, you start to expand. Then you encounter a new obstacle. Energy shall be supplied either via the grid or by pipeline. The network can then be full, or there are no pipes for district heating. That's why it's important that we get a review of the distribution of costs of connecting to the web. I am pleased that this is a point on which we agree in the climate agreement. A new obstacle in our hedge is the support system. Today we write April 1st. Three months ago, on 1 January 2008, a new support system would be up and running. Unfortunately, it has not come into force. It is still being treated in ESA. Today we have a non-existent support system that is one of the worst in Europe. When we look at the overview just for wind power, which is on the NVE website, it is that the main concessions are in place, but there are several concessions given where installations are not yet operational. It regrets the Christian People's Party. We have some areas that we want to solve in our hedge. We have some insurance options. We want more case handlers in the NVE, in order to reduce the processing time. We want to look at small power plants under 1 TWh and get the treatment of these delegated down to the state level by the Water Resource Act. We want to look at changes in relation to the costs of networking, network connectivity. We want to increase the level of support for new renewable energy. And we aim to become a major exporter of renewable energy - for the oil age should be over for our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e639	It is a general political problem that people in both position and opposition are wise to take seriously, and it is that many are experiencing a lack of consistency between what politicians say they want and what they are trying to do. In renewable energy production this is extra visible. All the actors who have taken seriously the desire to increase the production of renewable energy in Norway are surprised that they are being met by a regime that strengthens the small-scale tax regime and that does not equip the NVE with procedural capacity to allow good projects to be cleared in a timely manner. Therefore, it is totally unsustainable that we have a situation in which actors seeking to expand small-scale power projects are faced with a process of many years. There are people who have recently reported projects to the NVE, who are being met that they cannot even get a timeline for when they receive a case handler. One might say a lot about it, but at least it doesn't seem very motivating, and it doesn't seem as an expression of a clear willingness on the part of the authorities to invest in this area. I think it's great that the interpellant is raising this issue in Stortinget today. It's not like Tore Nordtun says, that it takes a little while. The truth is that the processing of many of these applications takes a long time, too long. It is the combination of a poor support system and tax reinforcement that means that we need to have a whole new situation with regard to the framework conditions for those who are charging for renewable energy production. The most important thing now is not to say what has not happened so far, but what must happen further. I noticed that the Council of State said that she ‘believes’ there may be a need for increased resources to the NVE. I am absolutely sure of that, and I have a expectation that this will be expressed when the government presents revised budget in May. I also think there might be good reason to look at whether today's system can be adjusted so that one more uses external expertise and makes it interact with the high quality of treatment in the NVE. We have also said from the Left and Christian People's Party that we are opening up to transfer some of the smallest projects to state level. I also believe that there might be reason to consider whether the uncontroversial projects should be treated differently, should be given priority over projects that appear to be complicated and that will be more time consuming. Last week the Council of State began the Annual Meeting of the Small Forces Association and made great expectations with its contribution. She promised to improve the tax system, and she promised to give a positive response to the desire to shorten the processing time. I believe that this must be reflected already in the revised budget, if it is to be seen as a willingness to act in this area. The representative Hallgeir H. Langeland has a button that makes the first record to be played a punishment of the previous government, and that today one is struggling with problems in different areas, at bottom and ground, is the fault of the previous government. It should probably be freshened a little bit, this lesson, because now it's almost two and a half years since we got a government change. And I think it's absolutely necessary to do what Hallgeir H. Langeland says in the Society's own magazine, that now Haga has to clean up. We have a new government in this country. We have a government that said they had a majority, and that should mean that they got action. I agree with Langeland that much could have been done before, but we are in a new situation with increased inflows of applications. That's the situation we're in now, and it's today's government that has to respond to it. I hope and expect that it will see clear signs of already in a month and a half when the revised budget is presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e656	In today's debate, the Council of State has stated that with the measures she has outlined, such as redeployment, efficiency, different priorities and some more resources, everything should go so much better. It will probably help something, but I don't think what the Council of State has said, in close enough. So in my view, the answers that have been obtained today are not good enough. The willingness to solve this problem seems to me to be half-hearted. I had e.g. hoped that the Council of State would have seen with much more willing eyes that municipalities could delegate concession powers in the construction of micro and mini-power plants, and also for the smallest small-scale power plants. There could have been an important addition to the work of shortening today’s excessive treatment queue. Delegating concession treatment to municipalities in order to increase the pace of cutting the procedural queue for the development of new renewable energy production in Norway is a good idea. The centre party is known as a party for local self-government. Today, small power plants do not represent any major interference in either nature or the environment. One doesn't really need the highest level of competence for the smallest power plants. These are simpler interventions that I believe the municipalities themselves have the necessary competence to handle. So I'm a little surprised that the Council of State, which is from the Center Party, mistrusts the competence of the municipalities, that she believes the municipalities are not good enough to handle micro- and mini-power plants themselves. They are almost invincible, as one interprets the answers she has given from the pulpit today. So it's also a little interesting to refer to something that stood in the nation not long ago: ‘Haga will provide NVE with more funds, but also opens up to the municipalities or private consultants to help NVE with case-preparing concession treatment.’ In conclusion, I would like to ask the Council of State to comment a little more on what she means by what I quoted here, if that's all right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e674	I believe that the Progress Party is raising an important debate today by addressing the case-handling capacity of the NVE. I have explained that I believe there are important things happening in the NVE now that the government has arranged, and that should happen even more so that we get the queues down. But I have to say that it is not really good to see what the Progress Party is after here, because no matter what action you take, everything is wrong, everyone is frustrated, nothing happens. And if something is going to happen, yeah, it's wrong too, because then everything is unpredictable. So it's not so good to see what you're looking for, what it's a desire to achieve with this. But one thing is absolutely certain: if the builders of small power and wind power had been as frustrated as the Progress Party expresses, they would at least not have submitted an application for an application, which makes it pile up with applications in the NVE. The reason why all these applications come is because people around the country now see that we have a government that will actually bet on renewable energy, which believes that something will happen now. And that's very good, because that's exactly what our ambition is. This year we have doubled - as well as - the support for Enova, just to get us moving on in this work. We are now putting in place the new investment aid scheme for wind, precisely in order for things to happen in practice. That is why we are today presenting the bioenergy strategy, which explains how we are going to get 14 new TWh energy from the forest. That's why we're working on the Energy Act, so we're going to make sure that small power gets easier network conditions. The reason why we end up with so many applications in the NVE is because people believe that we now have a government that will. It's interesting when in this debate a lot is shown to a director of the NVE's concession and supervision department who has resigned his position, and the representative Kristiansen says that yes, the situation was like that, the reason he resigned, according to his seas, was that this was a problem several years ago as well. That's right! Then the question to the representative Kristiansen: what did they do? But we don't have to take that discussion. In fact, a lot is now happening in the field of renewable energy. It's a whole new give. We have challenges related to concessional treatment. We're going to solve them, but we're also going to enjoy the enthusiasm that now exists around the country to get the renewable effort up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e687	The debate on substance is closed. 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e700	At the request of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be allocated by up to 10 minutes to each of the rapporteurs and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there should be a change of line of up to five lines with a reply after submissions by the Presidents and members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e709	The document we now have for processing is Document No. 1 for 2007-2008, the Riksrevisions report on the annual audit and audit for the financial year 2006. This is the most important document from the National Audit Office of Stortinget. The document reports on the outcome of the audit of the ministry and state agencies. The document also contains the result of the control of the administration of enterprises in which the State is the owner. The National Audit Office has revised the accounts for a total of 230 companies, and 211 audit letters have been sent without notice, while 19 companies have received an audit letter with annotated note. The number of enterprises that have received a comment is about the same level as in previous years. The National Audit Board has controlled the government's interest in 42 state shareholders, 37 joint shareholders, 5 regional health professionals, 5 government agencies, 4 enterprises organised by special law and 26 student partnerships. The National Audit Office has noted the administration of the Ministry of Health and Welfare, of the Ministry of Knowledge and of the Ministry of Transport. As an introduction, I would like to point out two continuous moves in the reporting for 2006. First of all, I would like to draw attention to the general criticism of the Riksrevision about the government of the ministry. In fact, governance of state agencies and substantiating agencies is a central element in the implementation of the Storting decision. The Committee has therefore expressed its view in its opinion that the Riksrevision finds that several departments do not have satisfactory stratification. This may make it difficult to verify whether the decisions and commitments of the Storting have been complied with. I said this last year, and I repeat it now: the Committee expects the Government to take this on board, and that better governance of state enterprises will be required. My second major point also applies to several departments and agencies, and this point was also pointed out last year. This applies to the breach of the Public Procurement Regulation. The Committee takes a serious view of the high number of comments on this point. I also allowed myself to express a certain wonder: it has been very remarkable about public procurement for many years. Nevertheless, it may seem that many companies have serious problems complying with the legislation. The Committee also finds it striking that the Ministry of Renewal and Administration, which is responsible for public procurement legislation, has also broken its own legislation this year. In the setting, a collective committee asked the Government to start preparing its own case for the Swedish Public Procurement Code Management. Let me underline that this is a serious signal to the Government. Then I would like to say something about the departments for which the Progress Party has had the case chairmanship in the handling of Document No. 1st@item: inlistbox Under the Ministry of Finance, the Riksrevision specifically points to two serious circumstances. It is a debt of internal control in the tax system. It's coming, among other things. to the extent that some contributors have had access to their own data on equations and to peer and related data. The National Audit Office has reported similar circumstances in the past, and the Committee finds it critical that the Ministry of Finance has not followed up on this better. The Committee therefore takes the view that the Ministry of Finance follows the tax rate better, so that such conditions do not recur. It is particularly important that everyone can have confidence in the tax haven. The second case under the Ministry of Finance concerns the system for fixing motor vehicle charges. The Committee finds it unfortunate that the progress of the new registration system, Au2sys, is strongly delayed and that motor vehicle charges must be fixed according to the old system. The old system is missing, and this has been pointed out by the National Audit Office since 1999. The Committee hopes that the Ministry of Finance will ensure that a new system is put in place as quickly as possible. With regard to the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coast, the Committee has noted that purchases have been made without compliance with the legislation. This applies to both the Coastal and Fisheries Directorates. The Ministry also received criticism in this area last year, and the Committee assumes that the Ministry is now taking action to improve. The National Audit Office has pointed out that the Ministry of Fisheries must work more structured with risk management. The Committee assumes that the Department takes this seriously. So a few comments to the Ministry of the Environment, which has received an audit letter with a note to the Norwegian Polar Institute and the Staten Kartverk. Both institutions lack material management and management systems. The Committee considers that the material management procedures should be improved and followed up by the Ministry. Finally, in the position of the Committee, the Progress Party has special comments under the Chapter on the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Under the Ministry of Health and Welfare, we have pointed out in particular: that there are major weaknesses in mental health protection. Wait time is too long in many conditions. Regional health professionals need to make sure that waiting time is in line with the Ministry’s ordering document, for the benefit of the individual patient. Furthermore, we have pointed out that it is a serious problem that regional health care providers have large maintenance facilities. The party of progress is concerned that missing maintenance is a threat to building security. In the special remarks of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we point out that it is particularly important that our means of assistance are used in relation to the authorities and in an ethically justified way. It is important to support sustainable development in the recipient country. Unfortunately, after the view of the Progress Party, there are too many examples of this not being the case, which are also clear after reading Document No. 1st@item: inlistbox We would also like to point out that there is a great risk of providing assistance as budget support. It is our opinion that an external control mechanism should be established to detect corruption in the aid sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e739	Since the chapters of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Inclusion in the accounts for 2006, Svein Roald Hansen, are not present in the Chamber today, I have to cover these two in addition to the chapters of the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, for which I am responsible. The examination of the accounts and activities of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs over several years has shown the importance of active control of the administration by the Storting through its control bodies. The review of the annual accounts for 2006 shows that, despite the budgetary adjustment made in the autumn of 2006, there are substantial additional/minor expenditures of more than 1/3 of the items of expenditure and substantial more/minor expenditures of more than 2/3 of the items of income, so that approximately DKK 2,5 billion, or approximately. 8 pst., was transferred to 2007. This gives rise to concern, and an overall committee underlines the importance of realistic budgeting. An example is the decision to reduce stock and goods stocks for 276 million. kr to cover non-financing of supply agreements between the FLO and the defence sectors. This is very critical of the Committee and recalls that there is no opportunity to dry up stocks to cover operating costs. It is also not acceptable when parts of the additional allocation to the Armed Forces military organisation amounting to 360 million. kr for balancing the fuel stock in the Defence is used for other purposes. In short, there are a number of comments about relations within the Defence Military Organisation. It is pointed out, for example: imbalance between assignments and available personnel and resources in terms of technical, commercial and liaison staff. The defence’s material management is a recurring problem and has been the subject of the Committee’s comments on a number of occasions. It is therefore inconsequential when the Ministry of Defence itself, in a letter of 20 August 2007, states that ‘it considers the material management deficiencies to be particularly worrying’. I assume that the work to ensure sound material management is given high priority in the further work. As in previous years, it has not been possible to ensure that wages and salaries are not wrongly paid in 2006. The number of unpaid invoices at the turn of the year, together with the corresponding collection notices and charges, is rising again. There are still a number of breaches of the procurement rules. Summaries are the impression that the Defence Military Organisation continues to have significant potential for improvement in resource management. It is particularly serious that many of the errors raised by Stortinget in the treatment of previous years' accounts have not been corrected. So to the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion: Good procedural procedures, the right to transparency and the ability to follow decision-making processes in the Ministry and underlying businesses are a prerequisite for the Storting through its Supervisory Board, the National Audit Board, to exercise effective control over the administration. An overall committee therefore asks the Council of State to ensure that procedures are in place to determine which documents are considered as governance documents. The Ministry of Labour and Inclusion is responsible for the NAV reform. No one could expect all systems, regulations, etc. was in place after six months of work at the turn of the year 2006/2007, when the work on Document No. 1 for the financial year 2006 was terminated. Only during the examination of Document No. 1 for the financial years 2007 and 2008 it will be important to address the results. However, let me say that I consider the objective of an NAV-office in each municipality during 2009 to be ambitious. In a start-up phase, it is particularly important to establish good procedures for financial management and to ensure appropriate skills training for employees. Not least, knowledge of the procurement rules should be given priority. I have noticed that the department has started a broad review of the resource area. This is both important and necessary. Easy access to the necessary tools is of great importance for individuals when meeting the challenges of everyday life. An overall committee has noted that eight out of ten comments from the previous year have been received. Two factors remain: improving the security of information in the large-scale machinery environment of the social security system and managing hearing aids. As regards the first, it is stated that the ratio has been taken into account and that the Riksrevision follows the case. The management of hearing aids, on the other hand, provides a basis for strong criticism. I consider it appropriate to point out that during the examination by the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs of Document No. 1 for the financial year 2005 was informed that the objective was to present measures in the draft government budget for 2008 with a view to having a permanent scheme in place on 1 January 2008. A unanimous committee was not satisfied with this and asked for measures to be taken that gave users a good offer even in the period until the permanent scheme came into effect. The matter was of high priority from Stortinget's side. The dismay that neither immediate action has been taken nor the deadlines for immediate implementation of the new scheme are great. When the department then informed that the work on securing a new permanent scheme was delayed, but without a reason, it may be a lack of respect for the Storting that I had not expected. With regard to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, it is only to note that the Committee is very satisfied with the way in which the accounts are kept and that there are no comments on the administration of the Council of State. For the Ministry of Knowledge: In examining the report of the National Audit Office to the Audit Board on the accounts for 2005, the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee provided for the Government to take greater responsibility for ensuring that the activities implement its budgets in accordance with the conditions for the appropriations. It is therefore gratifying to note that for the first time in several years the proportion of allocated activities financed by appropriations has shown a decline. The measures taken by the Ministry in this area thus appear to have worked. The National Audit Board has comments on the administration of student relations by the Council of State - despite the impositions and observations made in relation to the treatment of previous annual accounts in the Stortinget. The new law on student relations and related legislative changes are likely to contribute to improvements in the supervision of student relations' resource use. The higher education institution of Hedmark has not complied with the regulations on the management of externally funded activities at universities and higher education institutions and on the cooperation of these institutions with other legal entities. I see good reason to stress the seriousness of this because these issues have been raised with the higher education and ministry in relation to the audit of the accounts for both 2003, 2004 and 2005. It is serious that breaches of regulations, inadequate procedures and evidence may continue to be detected by the National Audit Office for such externally funded activities. For higher education in Hedmark, there are also large outstanding claims, gaps in the attachment order for the outgoing invoice, weaknesses in balancing balance sheets and lack of maintenance of access to economic systems. An overall committee points out that it is the responsibility of the department to follow closely the developments at the Hedmark High School in order to ensure that the administration is sound and that this results in satisfactory results. The Committee carried out an open consultation in connection with the provision of university funding for activities financed by appropriations. The background was that the total provisions were SEK 2.1 billion, and that the Riksrevision points out that only a few of the establishments had compiled a complete dossier in their annual accounts in line with the requirements of the department. A satisfactory overview of this provision was provided during the consultation and there is no reason to doubt the need for their size. The Ministry has not provided for the enforcement of the Childcare Act in 2006. Such supervision is an important tool to ensure that the objectives of kindergarten are achieved. I would like to take this opportunity to stress the importance of such supervision. Finally, there is good reason for stressing the Ministry's responsibility for following up previous observations and instructions in the context of the submission of the government accounts when reviewing the State accounts of the Ministry of Knowledge. An overall committee does not consider it satisfactory that the same errors and significant deficiencies are repeated year after year, as the Riksrevisions audit has revealed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e785	I'm just going to deal with one relationship, but it's a relationship that in return applies to all departments. It is, as the chairman of the Committee also pointed out, the large number of observations relating to infringements of the procurement rules. This relationship has been raised several times in Stortinget - obviously without any use. That's why I've been thinking - to the pleasure of Stortinget and the Council of State - to quote what she herself said about this issue in an interpellation debate on 18 January last year, 2007, at a time when Document No. 1 for the previous year was known for Stortinget. State Council Heidi Grande Røys then said: ‘Non-tolerance shall apply to deliberate breaches of procurement law.’;» It may give the impression that the current fractures are unconscious. It is in many ways a little strange when you read from the same debate what the Council of State says about action in its own department, i.e. in the Ministry of Renewal. I quote from the same debate on 18 January 2007: ‘Key staff shall be trained, case handlers shall be provided with better guidance on how to carry out procurement processes, we shall have clearer internal procedures on how to proceed in public procurement, and we shall actively use available tools.’ This has, I presume, happened, and nevertheless we have continued and obviously no particular decrease in breaches of the procurement law. I would also like to point out what the Council of State said, very openly, in the debate last year. She characterized the constant violations of the procurement law as embarrassing, and I quote further: "I mean it, straight out--it's embarrassing." She describes her own approach as follows: "I immediately, in fact the same day, informed that there should be a letter sent out here--we can't have it like that. I sent a letter to all departments, where I asked them to take better care that the code is complied with by their own purchase. I asked the state councils in each department to make sure that their underlying etats give these rules more attention. Each department has to look at its internal procedures to assess how these can be improved. Similarly, I asked that each department should work to maintain and further develop the internal competence of each department on the rules. I encourage all government councils to look at what can be done in each department, because this may be different, and it is different who has received comments. Nevertheless, each department has to go through its portfolio, to see how a fully concrete way of ensuring better compliance with the procurement rules and, of course, to have a closer follow-up to its underlying agencies.’ Then it could indicate that no one is listening to the Council of State in the Ministry of Renewal, once this letter has been sent. We can get a testimonial from the two state councils that are present here in the hall anyway, on how this has been followed up. My question to the Minister of Renewal is whether she is satisfied with the follow-up of other councillors - I will leave the Ministry of Renewal, for it has received its own charge in the election. And how will she follow up the Committee's message that the Government wants to come back to the Stortinget with «a separate case on the management of public procurement legislation»?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e815	As the rapporteur for the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, I would like to comment on the comments of the National Audit Office for these two departments, and to pay particular attention to two critical issues raised by the Committee in its position. In the field of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, the National Audit Office has issued six final audit letters without any comments. The Food Authority has received an audit letter with comments. The National Audit Office has no comments on the government administration of a single state limited liability company. The audit of the 2006 accounts of the Food Safety Authority and the Veterinary Institute shows a positive trend in the quality of accounting work. The National Audit Office is critical that in 2006, as in 2005, acquisitions have been made in both the Food Authority and the Veterinary Institute in breach of the public procurement legislation. I would therefore like to stress that the Committee assumes that the Ministry gives high priority to the follow-up of detected breaches of public procurement law in underlying establishments. I would also like to refer to other articles in the room about this. It is also necessary for the Food Safety Authority to follow up the Riksrevision on the lack of control of the billing of all established requirements and the lack of internal control and follow-up of procedures. I would also like to point out that the audit has shown that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food lacked a systematic and documented assessment of risks and materiality as a basis for the management and follow-up of underlying establishments. The Ministry’s work on its own risk and materiality assessment started late in 2006. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food stresses that the follow-up to risk management is and will be a central part of the governance dialogue between the Ministry and the businesses in the future. The Committee considers that the follow-up to risk management by the Ministry is important and it is therefore desirable that the Stortingen should be properly informed about this work. In the Ministry of Industry’s area, the Riksrevision for 2006 has issued nine final audit letters without any comments. The Industrial Legal Protection Board, the Patent Board, received a final audit letter with comments. The National Audit Office has material observations on the accounts of the Patent Board for 2006. Non-compliance with public procurement legislation, lack of internal control and failed ICT security management and control has been demonstrated. An overall committee shares the concerns of the National Audit Office and expects the detected breaches of the rules and the lack of internal control procedures to be corrected. It is therefore good that the Department takes a serious view of these issues and has taken action to follow up on the specific area of procurement and ICT security. The Committee is of the opinion that it is serious that the Riksrevision has revealed that acquisitions have been made in five out of six controlled underlying establishments without complying with the public acquisition rules. We agree with the Riksrevision that such breaches may result in acquisitions becoming more expensive than necessary and that the procurement procedures chosen result in a low degree of transparency, which is considered important for the prevention of corruption and maladministration. The National Audit Office cannot see that the Ministry has focused in particular on the rules for public acquisitions in the governance dialogue with some of the underlying activities. The Committee considers this to be unsatisfactory and would stress the importance of following up these issues in the governance dialogue. The Committee has noted that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade states that the Ministry has taken action to ensure that the underlying establishments have good compliance with the public procurement legislation, and expects to see the results of these steps through the work of the National Audit Office on Document No. 1 for next year. The Committee assumes that, in the future, the Ministry of Industry and Trade will ensure that the underlying business complies with the public procurement legislation and expects that this work will be given high priority. The Committee refers to Innst. S. No 155 for 2006-2007, in which the Ministry was asked to give priority to the follow-up to the duration of the proceedings of the Patent Board and to implement the necessary measures with a view to significantly reducing the duration of proceedings. Improvements have been achieved during 2006, including: for the trademark and design area. However, the average duration of proceedings has increased from about 4.2 years in 2005 to 4.3 years in 2006. The aim is to establish an average patent application within three years, which is in line with the other country and the European Patent Organisation. The Committee has noted that the Ministry has asked the Board of Patents to consider further measures to improve the achievement of the objectives, and assumes that this will result in significantly reduced processing time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e845	Fortunately, the review of the national accounts by the National Audit Office for 2006 shows that most of it is satisfactory. 211 final audit letters have been issued without comments and 19 with comments. These are slightly fewer observations than the 2005 accounts. You have to take the positive at first. What is not so good, however, is that five businesses have received letters with comments for the third consecutive year. Several departments have also received comments on the same issues in the past. This suggests that the National Audit Office’s observations are not followed up as well by all departments. I would therefore like to stress that the departments here need to be better both in terms of their own activities and in terms of their underlying activities. In particular, there is one theme that is a repetition - a breach of public acquisition law. In this area, there appears to be a need for an overall review to see what can be done to comply with the legislation. The regulatory framework shall include, inter alia: contribute to the transparent and socially sound acquisition and to avoid any maladministration. It is thought-provoking when even the Ministry of Renewal and Administration, which administers the legislation, gets criticism of compliance - as others so far in the debate have also pointed out. At the same time, let me say that the Christian People's Party naturally defends the rules of procurement, but at the same time we would stress that there is an important exception laid down in the system to ensure that voluntary non-profit organisations, such as non-profit organisations, are involved. The Salvation Army shall ensure the operation of the institutions for which it operates, inter alia: children and drug addicts. It is positive that such a derogation exists in the public acquisitions regulation for precisely this type of offer. Government and local authorities shall be able to choose to negotiate with NPISHs instead of following the ordinary procurement rules. The general background to the derogation was inter alia: the risk that the open competition requirement did not adequately reflect the desired social commitment and cooperation with charitable/ideal organisations. Let me therefore stress that this derogation is available to be used. As the rapporteur for the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I would also like to make a few comments on these. The Ministry of Justice also receives critical comments on breaches of the public procurement law. The Ministry also receives criticism of poor achievement in some of the underlying establishments. Time spent in proceedings and the remainder increased in the civil justice area of the basic plan in 2006. It is expected that a new procedural system that has been introduced will gradually contribute to a faster procedure. The Ministry of Justice says it has improved in 2007. The National Audit Office will continue to follow up observations from previous years on the length of proceedings in the courts and from the Advocate-General and the information system of the police case. Let me stress that it is very important that the information systems of the police act work well, and that one has back-up solutions that can work in any situation that may arise. With regard to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there are in particular issues related to development assistance to which there are comments. But this includes, among other things: a repetition in the department as a whole of the practice of the working time arrangements. It is now expected that this will be taken seriously by the State Councils of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In the context of the examination of Document No, the Committee: 1 had an open consultation with Solheim, the Council of State, among others the following issues were addressed: Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ management of foreign stations, reporting procedures, procedures for handling reports and reporting/management of suspicions of corruption and maladministration Norwegian aid objectives and achievement of results, management of budget support, control of the use of funds and sustainability of projects after the end of support The National Audit Office points out that there are weaknesses in the Ministry's management of grants. This also applies to the follow-up by the Ministry of Corruption. In the hearing, the Council of State gave a thorough account of the work involved in corruption. A supervisor has now been developed and work has been done on the part of the Ministry to improve the procedures and control of corruption prevention. I have expectations that this will contribute to a better follow-up in the future. The national audit reports weaknesses in relation to objectives, performance indicators, risk moments and performance reporting following the review of projects in Zambia, Malawi and Mozambique. Let me stress that it is important that targets and reporting are of such a nature that it is possible to check whether the appropriations give the desired results. The national audit also raises critical questions in the follow-up to budget support. Budget support makes it more difficult to demand the use of funds and whether they are actually used to give priority to poverty reduction and development. At the same time, they give each country’s authorities the opportunity to prioritise on the basis of their own assessments. This is therefore a dilemma and should be followed closely by the department. The main way of controlling the use of assistance funds is through the annual budget proposal. It is therefore important that the location and purpose of the use of the money be also stated here and that the budgetary proposals for the results achieved should be set out in retrospect. This is absolutely necessary for the Storting to be able to exercise the necessary control-command.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e884	Political archaeology is not an exact science. This is why it goes without saying that after the report on the state accounts for 2006, which is discussed in April 2008, there is certainly a lot that we do not yet know about. This time difference, which is quite large, does not show all the actual improvements that have been made. So this debate becomes a little bit about the snow that fell last year. I am responsible for two departments, the Ministry of Renewal and Administration and the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality. Let me first say a little bit about the accounts of the Ministry of Renewal and Administration. During the examination of the financial statements of the State for 2005, the Control Committee stressed that the Riksrevision as well as the Stortinget had repeatedly pointed out serious shortcomings in compliance with the public acquisitions legislation, which has been the theme of all those who have spoken so far. The Committee was particularly critical of the fact that the Ministry of Renewal and Administration, which is responsible for the legislation, did not come from the National Audit Office’s review without comments. The National Audit Office’s 2006 report shows that the Ministry and several of its underlying activities, such as the State Building, etc., are still in breach of the Code. The Committee has therefore found it necessary to follow up its unanimous comment of 2005 and asks the Government to return to the Stortinget on a separate case concerning the management of the public procurement legislation. Furthermore, the Riksaudition has identified significant deficiencies in the traceability and non-retrospective of the external accounts of Statsbyggen. The size has on several occasions highlighted the need for review of decisions and requires high priority to be given to ensuring good practice. Furthermore, there are six out of seven issues that were reported for 2005, which have not been dealt with in the 2006 report - it may well be that it is now in order. This concerns important areas such as disaster and emergency plans, management of county offices and weaknesses in internal control in the departments’ service centres. I assume that the Council of State will deal with the problems. She has probably already done so, but I find reason to stress that the Ministry of Renewal and Administration has a special responsibility for the general government, and therefore also has a special responsibility to keep order in its own house. But I'm sure that in the next report on government accounts, which comes in the autumn of 2008 and will apply to government accounts for 2007, it's just pluses in the margin. We'll see. In the case of the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, there is also a cross-political agreement here that children who are subjected to care failure, abuse or bullying should have help and support. The development of good child protection must therefore be given the highest priority and a wide range of counselling, relief, foster home and institutions must be ensured. But at the same time, this is a demanding area, and there is little doubt that the transfer of child protection to the state was a reform that we now, in the light of the postwar clock, might say was too poorly prepared and underfunded. The Ministry's unclear guidance signals and uncertainties regarding reporting requirements have been a recurring issue. An overall committee underlines the need for good communication between the ministry and the department and hopes that the department's own unit has now established to improve the situation, in fact yields results. We have had the impression in Stortinget, in the Control Committee, that there is a strong need for better communication between Bufetat and the Department's political leadership. I am happy to say that the Riksrevision report also shows that in several areas it is going in the right direction. The accounting of the Buff Directorate for 2006 is considered to be of good quality and there are signs of improvement in systems and procedures to ensure satisfactory internal control. On the other hand, the control of the economic governance of private child protection institutions is a particular challenge. Lack of common practices through the purchase of premises in these institutions creates arbitraryness. When approx. 50 pst. the purchase of the premises without complying with the rules governing public acquisitions makes it difficult to control them. I assume that the work on developing good practices in this area is a high priority. The Committee is also concerned with good practices to ensure the protection of privacy in the field of child protection and asks to be specifically informed of the efforts made in this area. I will not go into this post further into the business of Buffetat. As the Stortinget is aware, there is a separate administrative audit report from the National Audit Office on this which the Stortinget will be given the full opportunity to deal with in the context of the implementation of the Stortinget's objective of child protection during the spring. The crisis centre grant scheme is managed by the Buff Directorate. According to the Riksrevision, the Ministry has not taken up the follow-up and control tasks in relation to these grants. A comprehensive committee asks the Riksrevision to provide a specific briefing on this in the 2007 national accounts. Weaknesses have also been recorded in the administration of the grant scheme by the ETFs. The National Audit Office is critical of the Ministry’s management of the Committee on Distribution and the Secretariat of the Committee on Consumer Affairs and indicates that the Ministry has not made any demands on the activities in line with the Financial Regulation. An overall committee supports the Riksrevision's criticism and assumes that the department is addressing the situation. The same applies to the overall governance of the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman, the State Institute for Consumer Research and the Consumer Council. It is enough to address the new Council of State in the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e914	First, a few brief comments on the comments made by the Committee and the National Audit Office on the Ministry of Finance. I'm pleased that out of eight final national audit letters there are no comments in seven, but of course I'm not satisfied that there are comments in one of them. The matters raised by the National Audit Office and the matters also highlighted by the Committee are taken seriously by the Ministry of Finance and are to be followed up. These are delays in the progress of Au2sys. It's about discovering that it's been possible to get in and change the equations for employees in the Equation Service -- it's totally unacceptable, and it's closely monitored against the tax rate. And this is what has been a repetition of the criticism of all departments and underlying agencies, namely that procurement law is not properly followed up. It is also about the tax rate, and of course I take my share of the responsibility for that part to be followed up. So I expect the Grande Røys government council to come a little bit more generally back to the criticism. So a few comments about the Ministry of Defence's budget, for Stortinget, must not be led to believe that the Minister of Defence does not meet without having agreed to follow up the criticism that comes with regard to the Ministry of Defence. Of course, the Minister of Defence has noticed that four letters have been delivered from the National Audit Office, three of which do not contain criticism, while one contains some serious criticism of the defence accounts for 2006. On behalf of the Minister of Defence, I would like to say that the criticism that comes from the Riksrevision is being followed very closely. It is a high priority both in the Ministry of Defence and in the Defence Department to follow it up, not only for 2006 but also for 2007. The measures taken have provided for a gradual and substantial improvement in the management of the defence since 2005, and the Ministry of Defence follows up through letters of implementation and monthly reporting in the meetings. The criticism associated with following up realistic budgeting is an important indication that is also followed up in the 2007 investment budget and beyond. So a little comment on what is involved in material management. It's working on -- I see the committee has also noticed that it's working on this -- in the defense. There has been a high priority for a long time, and a lot of work is done on this. It is also in work in the FLO to prepare for the phase-in of new computer systems implemented through a project called Project Data Quality, to ensure that there is proper quality in material management. I also want to add for myself that my impression is that this is a high priority for the Minister of Defence and the Ministry of Defence, and that it has been a lot to address in that field, but that it is now doing a thorough and proper job. And then it's like that for all departments that we need a national audit that looks at us in the middle of the cards, so that we're all going to have to be strengthened to do a better job.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e927	The government is very serious about the broken Riksaudien has covered in the field of procurement. Let's not doubt it. As the district councillor Halvorsen was just in the house, the government is of course pleased that we have the Riksrevision, which reveals both large and minor crimes. I'm not happy, and the government's not content, that it's broken to discover. But that we're put in the cards so that we're sharp at any time, that's good. As both the committee leader and the representative Foss were involved, the committee wants the government to come back to the Stortinget with a case on the management of the public procurement legislation. We will of course do that, and I will return to Stortinget in an appropriate way with such a case. As a regulator, this government has already implemented a number of procurement measures since we started in 2005. Lawmaking was complicated by many perceptions. We came up with a new and simplified 2007 legislation, that is, the year after this audit report applies. There is reason to believe that the grips we took have made it easier to act correctly. Just before the new rules came in, we published a comprehensive guide, so that the right solutions have been more easily available to the individual buyer. As of 1 January 2007, the Treaty on Fee for Conscious, Illegal Direct Purchases was effective. We have already seen a look-up where KOFA has charged a million-dollar fee in a case where the competition was not announced as he should. I believe that having that kind of rice behind the mirror will also make it less of a violation of the legislation in the future. Then we have, through increased promises to KOFA, reduced the processing time. That was important, because we had a trial period of over one year in the worst cases. Now we're down in three months, and we have to lie down in three months in order that even KOFA's proceedings should be perceived as real. From 1 January 2008, we received a new Directorate of Administration and ICT, one of which is procurement. One of the DIFI's tasks is to promote public procurement in a better, simpler and safer way. DIFI can already provide a tool to help track the code. New framework agreements have been concluded with the provision of almost all public actions on the introduction and use of electronic tools in support of the implementation of the entire procurement process. I seem to remember that the representative Foss also mentioned electronic tools as one of his grips in the interaction from last year. This with electronic tools also makes it possible to track the whole process and follow the whole process at all stages, and will increase compliance, I think. For these measures, as I say, the law will be implemented from 1 January 2007. The Directorate came into office on 1 January 2008, i.e. one year after this review report, which we are now considering, was carried out and is for the purchase of 2006. Even FAD's comments on regulatory offences, which I am not satisfied with in any way, have led to a change. We have centralised the purchasing function in my department. More people may have to do this after a very large amount of delegating their procurement work, where a small number of people may have a collective competence to implement a complex set of rules. More people may have to go the way that FAD has done, simply centralising purchasing functions. I expect, of course, that leads to that we don't have any comments next time. Of course, the other departments and sub-departments must also follow it. However, I do not want to settle down on what we have now done, and what I have now outlined is that we have done. Already this year, work will be underway to look at how the enforcement rules can be improved further. A new EEA Directive shall be implemented. This leads, among other things, to: that suppliers are strengthened in their complaints. As a regulatory manager, a lot can be done from a central level. And as I've briefed the committee on, we've done a lot. At the same time, however, we must bear in mind that responsibility for procurement has also been largely delegated in Norway. We've seen that many public leaders haven't had enough focus on it, and haven't seen enough resources for competence or have had enough people to do the job. Last summer I went out again and encouraged all the leaders in the state to take this seriously. There will also be themes in the current year's top leader collection. I don't intend to let people sleep in the hour when it comes to following up the legislation. I find it very serious that there are repeated violations of this legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e953	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e957	Two brief notes: The institutions to which power can be delegated, the institutions can also be instructed how power can be exercised. I expect the delegation to follow an instruction on compliance with the procurement rules. I would ask the Council of State to confirm that this is happening - not only in its own department, but also in other departments. Comment No 2: I am aware that the Government is not - a majority government at all least - bound by anything other than decisions in the Storting. However, I had expected the Council of State to confirm the unanimous committee recommendation contained in the wording asking that this be promoted on its own behalf to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e966	I'm sorry if it was unclear. It was my opinion to confirm that of course I am doing as the committee wishes - it should be lacking. It is also in my interest that I have more with me in my work to ensure that this legislation is complied with. I also made this very clear in connection with the interpellation with me from the representative Foss last year, an interpellation that I very much appreciate. As the representative Foss clearly stated, there is not only the possibility of delegating, but also the possibility of instructing. We have taken more steps to get other departments and agencies to follow the legislation, both through direct information, so to speak, whether the results - they will of course also be there - and through the legislative work I have done. It has been about both renewing and simplifying the legislation, allowing the KOFA to be sanctioned - so that one has also shaken behind the mirror - and, not least, about a transition to electronic tools, allowing one to track the entire purchasing line. It may take some time for everyone to get an overview of the new legislation, but we are working hard to get everyone to comply with it. It should just be missing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e980	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e983	I have noticed the references to the deviations between budgeted and accounted for revenue for the 2006 financial year. I have already adjusted the revenue estimates in the 2008 budget in order to comply with the requirements of the Financial Regulation for realistic budgeting. I have also noted the Committee's comments on the achievement of the objectives of the specialist health service, and I would like to stress that I take very seriously the challenges that remain in helping people with mental and drug problems. Between 1998 and 2006, national coverage in the supply of children and young people has increased to reach the target of 5 pst. coverage appears to be reached during the current year. At the same time, average waiting time figures show a certain decrease in waiting time for children and adolescents from the third tertiary in 2006 to the third tertiary in 2007. Recruitment of professional personnel has been strengthened through a separate personnel plan and, fortunately, access to professional personnel has shown a positive development during the escalation period. A separate waiting guarantee in the specialist health service for children and young people with mental illness and young drug addicts under the age of 23 will be launched from 1 September this year. The scheme will ensure that children and young people are entitled to evaluation no later than within 10 days and to treatment no later than 65 working days. As you know, the government has also drawn up a contingency plan for the drug field, presented in the budget for the current year. For several years, the growth in mental health protection and multidisciplinary specialised treatment of drug addicts has been called for to be stronger than in somatic treatment. It has been working for several years to improve the quality of data reporting for mental health protection - without getting the results we want. The main quality problems are the data reported for mental health protection for adults. The Directorate for Social Affairs and Health is therefore to launch this year, on behalf of the Ministry, a cooperation project with SINTEF Health to improve the quality of these data. The requirement to improve the quality of reporting has also been followed up in the mission documents of regional health enterprises, both in 2007 and 2008. The government, as you know, has in St.prp. No 1 for the current year, a national strategy for rehabilitation and rehabilitation. We want to strengthen the position and performance of this field in healthcare to achieve the overall objectives, which seem to be a broad consensus. This strategy shall also ensure national coordination of the plans developed by regional health establishments for the rehabilitation field. I see that there are comments -- and I understand that -- on the use of the Individual Plan, which is a very important area in this strategy. A new guide has now been created to the regulation on Individual Plans. The Directorate for Social Affairs and Health has also strengthened the information work on user groups and auxiliaries. Regional conferences on experience with individual levels in each health region shall be held this year. The aim is for the individual plan to be implemented even more effectively than is the case today. I have also noticed that the Committee asks the Ministry to ‘follow up on the conformity of legally awarded posts with the actual number of posts’. I agree with that all the time. In the 2008 letter of award, we have asked the Social and Health Directorate to further develop the database for the National Council for Specialist Medical Training and Distribution. This shall be done in cooperation with the regional health establishments. It is foreseen that the new database will be completed by 2009. As the Storting is well-known, regional health firms have not over time complied with the frameworks granted by the Storting through the State budget. It is fundamentally undemocratic. In order to achieve the results also in the field of the economy, it is essential that management systems are set up at a very low level in all organisations and that there is sufficient financial competence in health enterprises - which together have a high financial responsibility. We're working on this. Responsible and competent managers with proper positions are also crucial to achieving the cost control that we all agree on. I can assure Stortinget that my department and I follow the health companies very closely. This year, very strong and detailed guidance has been provided on how this is to be done in order to achieve the financial control we want and to ensure that no regional healthcare company spends more money than the Stortinget has decided.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e1006	No more people have asked for the floor. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 2591]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e1021	This matter is probably one of the matters which has been dealt with as soon as possible by the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. Finally, the committee says - and I will add at my own expense: laconic: ‘The Committee has noted the resignation of Ramin-Osmundsen and therefore does not consider it necessary to pursue the matter further.’ In that, most people will probably remember what the matter was. I have noticed President Thorbjørn Jagland's wish that current political issues get a stronger place in the Stortinget and not just in the media. In this case, I must admit that there was more in the media than in the storeroom and in the committee. There may be a link between the fact that there was a case in the Control and Constitutional Committee on these matters and the final outcome of the case. With this I recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e1035	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 2591]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e1053	There have been major changes in psychiatry - from 1975, when there were 16 000 beds, and until 2002, when it was about. Five hundred left. The decline of these sites is still continuing. The background to this development has been, in part, the ideology that care should be provided outside institutions and closely related to the community. The consequence is that many of those who previously received an offer in the specialist healthcare service now only receive a care and treatment offer in their home municipality. At the latest in the year's budget statement, an overall committee stated that: ‘The reduction of psychiatric hospitalisation sites has gone faster and longer than that planned. For municipalities, this has resulted in an economic and resource load beyond the planned one, and this is only partially compensated. The majority cannot see that the reduction that has been on the State side is replaced to an equivalent extent by a satisfactory alternative’. The Committee considered that the situation was particularly critical for the very worst, those with severe mental disorders, who need to ensure long-term housing and a specialist healthcare treatment offer, and for a small number of patients with severe diagnosis and poor living capacity. The Committee also asked the Government, at the latest, in a proposal for next year’s budget, to make a plan to ensure that the worst psychiatric long-term spaces are offered sustainable and necessary. The Committee was concerned that these patients would not have their needs met within the planning period of the mental health escalation plan. There are few or no direct care services for long-term nursing elderly psychiatric patients. Housing and rehabilitation centres seem to be reserved for younger patients to return to a more normal and independent life. When older people are excluded from treatment, the reasons given can be either that they are too old - that is, over 60 years old - that they can be medicated and treated in hospitals or their own homes, or that they are not physically able to care for themselves. As I see it, this is about age discrimination. I cannot accept that the elderly are refused treatment for mental illness because the body is in a physically poor condition or that they are unable to care for good self-care. I can't see that they have any less need for the treatment of their mental illness for that reason. There are younger people who have such problems in addition, but of course receive treatment in the specialist health service. Why, then, can it be accepted that people over 60 years of age do not get help in the field of psychiatry, with such a justification? Is it not true that psychiatric nurses and caregivers are unable to contribute other than necessary care? The elderly who need specialised treatment have different diagnostics. There may be people who have had mental problems in the past and who are now showing up again, but now they're too old for the psychiatry. They may have solvent damage, alcohol damage, several types of dementia, personality changes, heavy depression or other diagnosis. Often it is that these people will have to have a municipal care and care service in the future, either in a nursing home or in a nursing home. However, this does not preclude the need for treatment in the same way as younger patients. In recent years, psychiatry has very little focus on the elderly and their need for treatment. It can now be seen that elderly nursing people with severe mental disorders who are unable to live alone at home are placed in somatic nursing homes together with other patients with an average age of about 90 years. In the absence of satisfactory services, nursing homes are increasingly serving as storage facilities for elderly psychiatric patients. Many psychiatric care patients are unobtrusive and partly physically strong. It goes without saying that placing them in the same compartment and at the same table as other groups in the nursing homes can become a burden to themselves. It creates difficult situations and great insecurity among the other patients or residents, and it is also a heavy burden on employees, who rarely have special psychiatry skills. Good professional competence may be essential for the improvement or deterioration of treatment and also for the use of unnecessary coercive measures. Hospitals are trying to stand by, but as I said, this has many unfortunate consequences, both for the person being misplaced, and for the other residents and staff. Today there is a great shortage of hospital places, and in many municipalities the threshold for getting a place in my eyes is unwarrantably high. This is also the result of a reduction in the number of institutions in old-age homes and an effort to ensure that as many people as possible live in their own homes or in nursing homes as long as they want. The idea has been good, but it is now seen that the need for institutional facilities is far greater than what is available, among other things. because of increasing life expectancy, but also because the different seriously ill patients now have to compete for the places. If there is no dramatic increase both in capacity and in manning, the situation will continue to deteriorate. In addition to a much more offensive escalation of hospitalisation, some nursing homes need to specialise in their services, so that in the future we can avoid what is happening today, namely that older somatic nursing patients, psychiatric care patients and younger nursing people with chronic diseases are placed together. The creation of age denture units is a beginning, but it's been too slow. Why does it have to take several decades from knowing - and assuming - a need to put in place suitable offers for this group, which now constitutes the majority of the residents of hospitals? And does it have to be just as slow to set up other completely necessary organized offers for the elderly? If some units of the nursing home are properly staffed and qualified - some for old age, some for different groups of younger chronically ill and nursing, some for psychiatric care patients - the dignity and quality of life of all these hard-tested fellows will be preserved in a much better way, regardless of diagnosis and age. Although the specialist health service is responsible for the very treatment of mentally ill people, improved resource development in municipalities must nevertheless be ensured. It does not come on its own, simply by adding additional funds to the framework grants or by providing smaller grants for the construction of several health homes. Today there are considerable differences between municipalities, both economically and around the thinking in the municipal part of the escalation plan. Although the Storting has contributed earmarked funds throughout the ten-year period, it has been seen that the professional upgrading has not been such a good idea. This may have been explained by the fact that it has been up to the municipalities themselves to dispose of the funds according to a wide range of powers. In the community health service, there are still barely enough psychologists and psychiatrists, and this means that mentally ill people cannot expect to receive satisfactory treatment at this level. In the escalation plan, the relationship between municipal staff and staff in institutions to be built-up is too much to be clarified. It is only said that resources in the municipalities should be upgraded, and not from where the staff should be taken or what type of staff they are talking about. In order to succeed in the escalation plan, quality must be ensured in the construction of district psychiatric hospitals and a more comprehensive offer in the district psychiatric centres, which also provide far better care for the elderly. The state mental health escalation plan does not seem to have taken much into account them for over 60 years. As I see it, older people fall outside in several contexts. To further explain my impression that older mentally ill people don't seem to be expected anymore, I will mention something I experienced as quite provocative. I was present at the SSB for approx. a year ago, where a statistics were presented on the development of mental illness within different age groups. To my surprise, there was a steep curve in the upper age group. The explanation was that those who were in the hospital were left out, with the reason that most of the residents were demented. The SSB produces statistics on which we are to build our treatment provision, and then this should be alarming for more than me. The treatment of the elderly mentally ill cannot be defined as a municipal responsibility, but as a responsibility that the specialist health service must assume by establishing several daily places and the responsibilities between the specialist health service and the community health service must be clarified. I asked the Council of State the question of what has been achieved for the elderly mentally ill, when they have reduced the supply of nursing homes in the specialist health service. For this group I've been talking about today, at least in my opinion, this is a tragedy. And that's not a problem you can spend time solving. Age discrimination resulting in loss of the right to treatment for mental illness can no longer be accepted, and misalignment in municipal hospitals must soon cease - for the benefit of the individual patient, but also for the benefit of the other residents and for the benefit of the employees. I now hope that the Council of State can give a clear answer as to whether she shares my views and concerns in this matter, and what she might do to correct what has happened now, and which we are increasingly seeing happen. I look forward to the answers of the Council of State. I would also like to say that I know that in many municipalities special departments have been set up, but this applies to a lot of people and is not something we can wait a long time to change. This applies to very many seriously ill people, who need an offer in the specialist health service, and who do not get it today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e1102	Over the last decade, a fundamental shift has been made in health services in Norway. We have, as we know, gone from special institutions and large central institutions within, for example, mental health protection for all to live in their home municipality, as far as possible, i.e. in owner-occupied dwellings or in organised municipal housing near family and friends. This has been a guiding principle for the provision of services to all those in need of healthcare, regardless of age and diagnosis. We know that care services in municipalities face demanding capacity and competence challenges in the future. Clearly, there is a need for a better medical and interdisciplinary follow-up of care providers, especially for people with chronic and complex disorders, with mental problems and with dementia. There are in particular two initiatives that together will contribute to a good offer for this group of people. One is, as you know, the Roadblock for Mental Health, which this year is within its tenth and last year. The second is Care Plan 2015 - Regeningen and Stortinget's commitment to the care services that were provided in connection with the care notification last year. The aim of the Roadmap for Mental Health is to promote the ability of users to enjoy independence, seaworthiness and the ability to master their own lives. In St.meld. No 25 for 1996-1997, Transparency and fullness, which is the whole basic document for the plan of accession, it is stated that no one shall have special institutions as permanent residence. People with mental disorders should have the same opportunity to participate in society as all others. They should be able to live in the municipality and receive the services they need from the municipality and the specialist health service. This is also in line with the 2005 European Ministerial Declaration on Mental Health. In order for users to be able to live in municipalities, it is, as is well known, built up local services for people with mental disorders. At the same time, the services offered in the field of mental health protection, specialist healthcare, are developed through the decentralisation and specialisation of services. The specialist health service shall, as far as possible in cooperation with the municipal services, provide people with good and sound assistance where they live. We are now in the process of getting 3,400 of the nursing homes that were foreseen in the escalation plan, and they will be completed next year. Many have been given a new residence as a result of the escalation plan, and some have been offered a health care home. Others again receive services so that they can live in their own homes. As is known, the size has joined the proposal for a new investment grant for nursing homes and nursing homes from 2008. Together with the increase in operational resources for municipalities, this will further improve the ability of municipalities to offer a good range of services to older people with mental health problems. Municipalities also have the opportunity to make use of the grant for other housing offers to disadvantaged people on the housing market. It is true that the reduction of psychiatric hospitalisation sites in specialist health services has gone faster and further than was foreseen when the mental health escalation plan was adopted ten years ago. At the same time, the development of the services, as I mentioned in the introduction, has been directed towards the fact that the municipalities have taken over many tasks that were previously carried out by the specialist health service. This has been possible, for example: thanks to technical developments, improved skills of the personnel working in the municipalities, and strengthening the local economy. During the treatment of the 2007 State budget, a reallocation of operational resources between municipalities and the specialist health service was adopted. It has continued for the current year and the redistribution implies that the municipalities receive a greater share of the operating funds than provided for in the escalation plan. The aim is to provide municipalities with a basis for meeting the challenges of building up psychiatric hospitals. In 2008, the municipalities are expected to receive 260 million. kr more than the specialist health service for operational purposes. There is no doubt that the municipalities have made extensive efforts to achieve the targets in the escalation plan. Furthermore, mental health protection has undergone major changes in recent years. There are more people receiving treatment both in outpatient and inpatient settings today than at the beginning of the escalation period. This means that there are, in fact, fewer people who have housing services through the specialist health service, and that municipalities are primarily responsible for the necessary housing and care services in cooperation with the specialist health service. At the same time, it is clear that there is still a need to improve the quality, competence and content of services - both in municipalities and in mental health protection in general. We still have unsolved challenges in creating good and coherent services for some users. These are in particular those who are not able to seek help or who actively oppose help, but who need it. We know that several of them may need help from different services and are often in grey areas between somatic and psychiatric health services, or between health services and social services. I want to return to the further commitment to mental health after the end of the escalation plan in the 2009 state budget. In addition to the work on the escalation plan, the Government, which I was in the community at the time, and with which the Stortinget is known, has developed a Health Plan 2015, which also contains measures to strengthen the capacity, competence and quality of municipal health and care services. This also applies to the elderly with mental disorders. Several annual works and the establishment of new dwellings are important when extending the capacity of the care service. The government, through a strengthening of the municipal economy, to which the Stortinget has joined, has facilitated the expansion of staff capacity by 10,000 new annual works during 2009. We're well on track to achieve this goal. It is not least important also to improve the quality of people with mental disorders, as the representative Giltun points out in this interview. About 80 pst. in sick homes suffer from dementia, often in combination with mental health problems. Yet, we see that many hospitals today are not built and organized for people with dementia. I believe that good dementia care in most cases is good care for everyone. We have therefore decided that everything that is being built and modernised through the new investment grant for hospitals and nursing homes should be adapted precisely to these user groups. Grants shall be awarded to 12000 new posts, with a total grant by the country of more than DKK 6 billion in the period 2008-2015. In order to ensure good recruitment, high professional competence and stable staffing in the care sector, what has been presented in the Competence Plan 2015 is very important because it is to ensure that the proportion of employees with health and social education increases, and it is to prepare the basis for a wider range of professional services. It shall include, inter alia: greater emphasis is placed on geriatry, age psychiatry and psychology. The medical follow-up shall also be strengthened and medical efforts shall be significantly increased. After I have been informed, the problem that Giltun's representative is not a major problem on a national basis. That doesn't mean it doesn't happen. But I would like to stress that mental problems can affect everyone, regardless of past history of illness. Psychiatric disorders can often occur, as has been said, along with dementia. It's usually very unfortunate for those who are affected -- whether it's residents who feel insecure or there's people with mental disorders, dementia or other diagnoses who don't get the help and follow-up they should have received. I can assure you that I am taking the issue very seriously, and that the government is working hard to provide people with even better services. We still have to work to provide a good and sound offer to all people who have mental problems, including the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e1138	I thank the Council of State for the answer. She took very much of the general development we have seen as a result of the escalation plan. What I was looking for with this interpellation, was to eat it, to eat it especially in relation to a patient group who has severe mental disorders, not ordinary age, but other types of mental disorders. This is a patient group that has been contacted if I am now in a hospital hospital and who was previously given treatment in a psychiatric hospital. There are people who in periods when they get seriously ill need short-term care, and during short-term stay they need treatment. They don't get that kind of treatment in a nursing home. This is also a serious mental illness that often has a debilitating behavior, and they can be strong, and as I said, they can be from 60 years up. These are people who, due to age, no longer receive a treatment offer in psychiatric hospitals in the specialist health service. This seems to be an age discrimination and nothing else. If these people had had this problem when they were 55, 50 or 45 years old, they would have received a treatment offer in the specialist health service. But when they reach a certain age, they are placed in a nursing home -- a complete misposition. This goes very far beyond the other hospital residents, many people are horrified by it, and coercive action is also being taken against the patients who are being misplaced, because the manning is simply not able to handle that kind of disease. It is positive what has happened by allowing the most people to live at home in their municipality of origin. Many of these need permanent housing where they can receive follow-up from the community health service. But it's when they're acutely ill, or when they get so sick that the local health service no longer manages them, that they also need to get help in the specialist health service in the same way as younger people. The Council of State also mentioned the construction of nursing homes and the construction of nursing homes - it is soon built 3,400, and these psychiatry homes are gradually completed. But it also turns out that 2 800 homes are missing after the new calculations. In fact, in the case of the 12,000 health homes mentioned here, it is far too small in relation to the need you already see today, and especially when you take into account the need to build special departments for the younger ones, and for these different groups, with the same grants. The kind of psychiatric patients I'm talking about don't fit in with the ordinary dementia wards. It is to have understanding and respect for older people and that there should be a dignity in terms of both housing and treatment, which I am looking for, and I wish the Council of State would respond more to that in its last article.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e1153	It has to be absolutely clear, and it's usually absolutely crucial, that all people, regardless of age and diagnosis, should have the best help, and they should have help when they need it. Age discrimination, as the representative Giltun talks about, is not supposed to exist. But the thing is, people are very different and in very different situations, and there are individual needs. What is necessary in each case is also different answers, which means that we have to have an offer in the municipalities first of all. These are challenges in some municipalities, I agree with Giltun's representative. I've also been so lucky -- I think I can use that expression now -- to have been at a very large number of the country's hospitals, and have been in places where they've developed very good offers for people who are both demented, and who have mental disorders, who are in the group that Giltun's representative pointed to -- who are unbeatable, and who can make others unsafe -- but who are organized in such a way that it's good for them, but it's also good for the residents otherwise. That's what we need more of. That's why this investment grant, which is new from this year, and to which the Storting has joined, is so very important and it makes us build up more of our own units, if necessary, and more dwellings, which are obviously needed. So we're getting almost 3,500 new homes completed - as it looks - within the Mental Health Excursion Plan for this year, in which part of them will be able to live. But it will also be that a good part of those we're talking about will need nursing homes, and then the investment grant is very important. I don't think there should be any doubt that at least on behalf of the Government I can just make it quite clear that whatever age and diagnosis is going to be equivalent treatment. That's also why we're so busy spending the big money on the big things. There are Community solutions, not least in the municipalities, to ensure that we have an even better service provision and that we have more competent people employed to get even better quality in the service we are actually offering.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e1162	The interpellant addresses an important topic, which, as the Council of State is concerned with, really touches on the fundamentals of the relationship between the specialist health service and the first-line service in the municipalities of psychiatry. The decentralisation of specialist healthcare in relation to psychiatry has been good for most people. Good results have been achieved in relation to successful integration, but we also have many examples of problems arising in municipalities when expanding a local offer. This will apply to the provision to patients of any age, and on the basis of this interpellant, I think it is an opportunity to say something that is not as direct age-oriented as the interpellant's important posts were. I think it is demanding in many municipalities to expand offers for the benefit of the patient when faced with patients who have a debilitating behavior and who have different problems that it is difficult to deal with within a small housing unit, small botun, nursing homes, etc. Strong professional environments are required to build up activities, day care and leisure activities for patients to develop. These professional environments are not so easy to create if they are to be built in small municipalities for a few or for individuals. We see that the municipalities are struggling with recruitment, because there are not just questions about what we have seen now, with increased subsidies to resource-intensive users, etc. There are also questions about how to recruit good enough skills for professionally demanding tasks, as this will often be, for example. dealing with psychiatric patients transferred to municipalities. Often it happens on short notice, i.e. that patients are transferred without a process to build up a professionally good offer. In solving those challenges, municipalities are often unable to do so on their own. They need to cooperate with other municipalities - intermunicipal cooperation - in order to build good enough units and good enough professional environments, and they will need time to do that. These are very important challenges, which I hope the Council of State will look at, for example. how we can work in the context of the interaction between municipalities and specialist health services in order to be informed of transfers, to develop a process around it, whether it is realistic to allow municipalities to build up intercommunal offers and to have a long-term plan for recruitment and skills building. This is important. Once I have visited municipalities, I have often heard stories about two-three individuals - heavy psychiatric patients - who have been transferred, who have been difficult to deal with, and who have made the use of unexpected large resources - often in a small municipality - to do what is legally required of these patients, build up an offer, which can go beyond, for example. care for the elderly, the offer of other demented patients, etc. So I think we have a big challenge here. I've heard a lot of stories about struggling. For example, there must be professionals who have knowledge and an organisation that allows for the adoption of coercive decisions. Every time you have to impose some form of coercion on patients who are difficult to deal with, it takes quite good competence, routine and security to do things right. This is the turn to handle, especially in small municipalities. I believe that this applies to all generations in view of the interaction of psychiatry, first line service and services in the municipalities. I think it is a very relevant and important issue that has been addressed. I hope that we can use this debate to move forward in terms of inter-communal cooperation, and also in terms of making some assessments of whether decentralisation has gone too far, whether we need to find solutions that are more structured in terms of inter-communal cooperation, in terms of building up an adequate patient offer, which is sound both in terms of the patient's best, in terms of the security of the local environment and in terms of the situation of employees with a view to building skills and providing good treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e1175	I would like to highlight some of the points that the interpellant raises in this matter. It is unworthy that people with severe mental health disorders and severe diagnosis, who have poor living capacity, do not have a good enough treatment offer in the specialist health service. We know that specialist health care facilities have been built too quickly. The fact that these people today are placed in institutions where they are not at home is a problem for the other users, and that is a problem for the employees. We must then know and understand that these are people who can in part be violent. This is partly people who are unable to care for themselves and who as such are a threat to their own person, they are it to other users, and they are related to the employees. We also experience that older people are excluded from treatment due to age. If we are to provide a decent care for the elderly, we cannot accept that something is going on that I would call a negative discrimination against the elderly in Norway. The answer we often get from the Government is that the municipalities have transferred the x number of dollars more - and more and more - which can also be discussed. But this isn't just about money. Equally, this is about competence. It is not the case today that the specialist health service in the area is at all times local or municipal. Even within the district psychiatric centre, problems can be experienced in meeting skills needs. As I see it, you actually use the municipalities quite deliberately to disclaim responsibility related to the case. Psychiatry is a priority area to be strengthened, it is claimed to be the bastant of the red-green. Everyone is able to see that many places are the opposite. Ullevål University Hospital kitters 28 million. kr or eleven places. In North Norway, UN will cut psychiatry by 10 million. kr. 4.5 million. Of these, savings are made in district psychiatry. 20 posts must be removed. You put together two short-term posts for a sub-acute post. The short-term offer disappears, with serious consequences for the population, especially in Troms and Finnmark. The need for these services is full-fledged, but the lack of appropriations from today's government deprives patients of access to alleviate their mental health problems. And who do you think would end up paying this that's being cut off in the hospital sector? I'm afraid that this ends up with the municipalities again - in a municipality of Norway, which has neither good enough finances, can give priority to different or to seventh, and ultimately has the necessary specialist health service far in most places. In general, mental problems: it is the case that all parties want to strengthen mental health protection. Maybe the most important challenges we face is catching people who have this health problem, at an early enough time, because we know that its deeper trauma you get into, the harder it is to get people healthy. On the other hand, if you can catch people who have a mental health problem, early enough, the chance of getting this human being healthy is actually far more likely than what is the case with today's system.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e1188	I'll give honey to the interpellant because she's addressing this issue. We're about to finish a ten-year mental health effort, which a total mass has been behind. As explained by the Council of State, we have achieved significant results in terms of the quantitative upgrading of the supply. This applies both to the development of district psychiatric centres, to the growth of yearwork and to the number of patient treatments. At the same time, it is a fact that some patients still experience that the offer fails in many joints, as the interpellant has also pointed out. This shows that we are not aiming to strengthen the supply of mental health protection, even when the escalation plan is completed during the year. Like the other parties in Stortinget, the right has supported the restructuring of the supply of mental health protection, with the reduction of psychiatric hospitals and the upgrading of measures in municipalities and district psychiatric centres. This was absolutely necessary to ensure a better treatment provision for patients. This conversion of the offer is also an expression that people with mental disorders should not be stowed away but be given the opportunity to live an active and meaningful life in a natural community with others. When the Storting decided to reduce the number of places in psychiatric hospitals, it was an important prerequisite that this should be done at a lower rate than the growth of daily places for active treatment. Over the planning period, there will also be an overall increase in daily space. In 2004, it was clear that the slowdown had gone faster than anticipated and that it was unclear whether the escalation had progressed at the same rate. This led to the order of Højres then Minister of Health Ansgar Gabrielsen from the Right in 2004 to stop building places in psychiatric hospitals. This Decision was to precisely prevent the situation presented by the representative Giltun in his interpellation, namely that patients lose existing offers without a new and better offer being made. If the escalation plan is to succeed, we must first and foremost build up good offers in patients’ neighbourhoods. Interpellant points to an important issue, namely the use of coercion in mental health protection. We need to work expediently to reduce coercive use, and good professional competence is one of the main instruments. Today, more than one third of care workers are unskilled. At the same time, municipal care continues to be given new and professionally demanding tasks, including: as a result of the escalation plan. The right has been committed to a knowledge gap in the care sector, such as: means increased competence for the alternative use of coercive measures in relation to people with mental illness and others. For the treatment of Ot.prp. No 64 for 2005-2006, on health care for persons without consent, the Health and Care Committee asked the Ministry to take measures to increase the level of competence to reduce the use of coercion. I would like to ask the Council of State to explain what has been done to follow up the decision of the Grand Duchy. The escalation plan for mental health has provided a better range for many of those with moderate disorders. However, the reports and feedback from the patient organisations from the supervisory authorities show that many of the most ill patients still lack adequate provision in the municipalities. These are patients who, according to the Health Inspectorate, often have very poor living conditions, in the form of homelessness, poverty and weak social networks. It will be paradoxical if a ten-year bet with billions of increased resources does not offer a better offer to the very worst. The right has therefore proposed a separate action plan for patients with the most serious psychiatric disorders. Unfortunately, this was not supported by the government parties in the 2007 draft budget. I would challenge the Council of State to review the proposal for a separate action plan for the sick, when we are about to take stock of the ten-year effort in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e1203	The interpellant has come up with an important theme and a reality that we politicians, at all levels, have to take over and solve in a good way. It is about quality of life - and quality of life has no age limit. That's why it's now time for the age psychiatry to be strengthened. It is known that the occurrence of a disease that causes permanent disability, both mentally and physically, increases with increasing age. This group has not been part of the mental health escalation plan, but has unfortunately been part of the general care for the elderly. Already at the end of the 1980s, a reduction and reorganization of the age-psychiatric supply in specialist hospitals began. Age psychiatric outpatients were established in much of the country, and eventually there was an outpatient team. In recent years, there has been a reduction in the number of all-day psychiatric services, and the psychiatric hospitals in the specialist services have been closed down, without correspondingly being built up in the municipalities. It has created major challenges for the community health service, which is to provide the necessary treatment, care and security for the individual, whether at home or in a nursing home. The intention to help the individual with a cage does not work well enough for this group. Many municipalities are also struggling with the local economy. The tight budget means that health and care seats need to put the economy at the centre of the patient instead of the patient. Individual plans are used in psychiatric institutions, but are not automatically developed at municipal level for elderly psychiatric patients who live at home or in hospitals. In its problem issue, the interpellant addresses the group of people over 60 years of age with outstanding behavior and heavy mental disorders. The Christian People's Party will point out that these do not constitute a similar group. Therefore, it is important to find solutions in the interaction between age psychiatric departments, district psychiatric centres and the municipalities’ health and care centres. Competence and the provision of professional content in institutions and home care must be in place to get good and coordinated solutions to the individual. Some people with dementia may have major behavioural and psychological additional problems. Dealing with challenging behavior requires special knowledge, action and good manning. Small municipalities will have problems in fixing this type of supply, both because of the need for special skills and because few people and varying supply requirements can be involved. In that case, intermunicipal cooperation on an enhanced unit can be a good solution. The Christian People's Party knows that the N.K.S. Skyrud dementia Centre in Kongsvinger is about to launch a project to meet the needs of the region, across both municipal borders and county borders. But it seems to be a challenge to find the good and predictable solutions for the economy through such forms of cooperation. I hope that the project in Kongswinger will be a good model, and I also expect that the Council of State will follow in the development, which is particularly exciting. When we now know that approx. 80 pst. Of those who currently live in a nursing home who have a dementia, it may be called misalignment if the departments are not set up as screened units with a regular hospital ward for the remaining 20 pst. That is why I would like to congratulate the Government for the Danish Dementia Plan 2015, which has seen dementia on the agenda here in the country. It helps the 70 000 older people with dementia and their relatives. Research also shows that it is approx. 120 000 older people with depression and anxiety in this country. Some have suffered from mental illness over several years, and the disease does not end on the day one is 60 or 70 years old. Some people suffer from mental illness after they get older. I want to use my own rhetoric from the Demenplan that ‘småd is good’ and transfer the thoughts to develop the supply in interaction between the specialist services and the municipal health services for the elderly with mental disorders. There are several things that need to be done to make a good offer, including: competence. Therefore, it may be appropriate to create a sub-plane in line with the Demen plan. The government's words indicate that this is a serious issue and that it wants to give priority to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e1222	In the past, the county council ran the psychiatric hospitals. In the context of business reform, these were taken over by health businesses, and there is a housing offer for mentally ill old people. I was in Radøy municipality yesterday and had a conversation with the rapporteur there. There's a Psychiatric Hospital there. Four patients were going home to Radøy Municipality, while the others were going to other municipalities, where they came from. What pleased me about the conversation with the rapporteur was not that they did not have the competence to accept them, but that the challenge was in a way to solve the economic link to getting such heavy health care spaces, which requires something more than other health care spaces. I think it is great that the municipality can set up with professionals who can take care of these patients in a good way. Some people have talked about these being patients from hospitals. So these are patients who have been in nursing homes, special psychiatric hospitals, and who are now going back to the municipalities. Nor is there any disagreement in the municipalities that these patients, these residents, actually belong to the municipalities, and that the municipalities are responsible. I also understand that the cooperation with the specialist health service on how to transfer, and when to transfer, is a good many places. So the municipalities do not refuse to accept those who belong in the municipality and who will actually get a good offer around, but some of the challenge is in a way the financial one. Therefore, I also think it is very good to know that of the funds that are in the escalating plan today, the municipalities receive, as the Council of State said, 260 million. kr more for the operation of the mental health protection offer than the specialist health service. Many municipalities are likely to face challenges regardless of this related to age psychiatry, geriatry and increased psychological competence around the municipalities. The 2015 Competencelift is an expression that you need to strengthen your skills, but there is nothing that has been done overnight. Then the patients from these nursing homes suddenly don't come back to the municipality either. This is done through a planned and good cooperation with the specialist health service as they step down the psychiatric home offer and leave it to the municipalities. I think it is something special when the representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen says that a user of the municipalities ‘conscious to discharge himself’. What the municipalities are very clear about is that these people are their responsibility, and that they should give them a qualitatively good offer. Then I also think that the representative Hareide is constructively developing the dementia plan and building on many of the ideas and offers that lie there, so that the patients who are currently in psychiatric hospitals can also benefit from the build-up of skills and the planning that the municipalities must otherwise have. 70-80 pst. of those in need of hospitalisation are in fact demented, and many have co-morbidity. So I don't think one should look so dark at this, but rather support the municipalities in their way of meeting this challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e1239	This is an important interpellation. It is particularly important that we talk about a group of people with mental problems and mental disorders, and about the care that a rich country can provide to this group. It may be in this area that the progress made in dealing with treatment and how to deal with it has been most visible. That's what I thought we should have with us. I represent a state that had a large specialist institution, Harastölen. He was in swing from 1959 to 1991 and was a home for those who were so-called heavy psychiatric patients, the heaviest of the heaviest. There was room for over 170 people. This is about a pig-grown stripe, a small municipality, and there were 170 people. And as some said, they weren't just stumped away, they were hidden away. They were hidden away on a mountain shelf 500 meters above sea level, in the middle of a western fjord. One who will try to get to Harastølen today will find that he is quite inaccessible also to people who are physically healthy. What happened to those who were at Harastølen was that luckily we got a development in Norwegian psychiatry that meant that one would integrate these patients and take them back to the municipalities, and one got a controlled readmission. For those who know about the psychiatry in Sogn and Fjordane, I would say that it has been a successful retreat in everything essential. There are probably some isolated points that have not been so successful, but in large ways it has been successful. We also got the expansion of the DPS-a, which many people have been involved in. It was kind of a degradation that was controlled, and then it was a controlled construction. There was a system on this, an incredibly interesting project, which it has also been researched. One had an incredibly good research base when one could follow these people physically and look at where they were moved, and there's research on this. The leader of the Psychiatric Center at Nordfjordeid, Torleif Ruud, who probably will know someone, has researched this with others. It's quite interesting and unique, what's been going on here. In any case, I'm going to say that the Left doesn't want to go back to a time with giant institutions, where a very strong stigmatisation of human beings. The representative of the Kijlaa said, and I fully support it, that it is important that the municipalities point to relationships and take responsibility. That's what municipalities do. They take responsibility, and it should just be missing. These are the inhabitants of the municipality, and these are the inhabitants who most need to be taken care of. So it should just be missing. Here the municipalities have all the responsibilities, but of course they need help if they need it. They need to be helped to improve knowledge, to improve skills, and to operate interdisciplinaryly, as many have mentioned. Obviously, it's important. Another keyword here, which is very important, is interaction between the different levels. I know at least that when it comes to the DPS that I know best, the psychiatrician at Nordfjordeid, it's very active in relation to the municipalities. They're trying to transfer knowledge, and they're getting very well from the municipalities. In general, I would say that the integration that has taken place is good for us. She has led to more openness. One has had a normalization of these people, and one has, of course, also gained much greater dignity for this human group. A little moment that some representatives were in, this was coercive. In Sogn and Fjordane, there is actually the least forced use in the country. The small municipalities are transparent. I think the reason for this is that this has our knowledge transfer and good interaction between the first- and second-line services - a good mix.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e1266	I would like to thank you for all the fine contributions that have been made in the debate, where there have been a good deal of points of view. I had probably hoped that you would eat the debate a little bit more when it comes to the particular group that I've taken up. It is a special situation, and I also notice in the debate that it is somewhat unclear whether you think it is the municipal health service that has the whole and full responsibility for treating mentally ill elderly people, or whether the specialist health service has a responsibility for them in line with younger ones, as we in the Progress Party believe. This with age discrimination is so serious that I had hoped that it would be taken a little more into consideration in the debate. With regard to the specialist health care and the degradation that has occurred, it has gone so far that some of the most serious mental ills, and perhaps especially the elderly - now I am not talking about them with the usual age term, but about them with other mental illnesses - no longer receive the necessary treatment. Jan Boehler said that we can use this debate to move on. I fully agree with that. I had too much sense of what was said in Jan Bøhler's posts. He showed great understanding of the situation that is in many places. In fact, very many of the mentally ill people who are in hospital today would have had treatment, perhaps for a shorter period of time in specialist health care, but they don't get it, because of age. This is serious. People working in the community health service say that those older people who have been offered treatment where they should have it, i.e. in the specialist health service, who can come home and live in a nursing home or within the municipality boundaries, have a much better health status and have a much better quality of life than those who end up in a nursing home. They are simply grounded, and they are both to the danger of and to the great fear of other residents who are seriously ill. In hospitals, somatically ill patients come in many cases directly from hospitals, who may have had a stroke, or who are seriously ill, and these patients are often placed in the same department as exogenous mentally ill people. What I wanted to have with this debate was that one has experienced a twist against the fact that older people who have a mental illness, who should have had treatment in the specialist health service, or who should have had a 24-hour period, actually no longer get it. The decline has gone so far. In fact, I had hoped that the Council of State would take immediate action, so that this practice would cease immediately, and that these persons could receive the treatment they absolutely should be entitled to in line with younger ones. This would be for the best for both the patient group I'm talking about, for the staff and for the residents of the hospitals. It's unsustainable to wait years to solve this situation that we now see is getting worse instead of getting better.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e1277	I see the representative Ludvigsen drawing a good picture when he told me how it had been for 170 people at Harastølen, who had been hidden away, who was the expression the representative used. Such was the existence of very many people in our country. I am glad that there has been broad agreement to do something about it. It wasn't dignity in what was often offered to many -- whether they had mental disorders or other disorders -- who were simply hidden away at institutions, so they shouldn't be bothering anyone. That is why I agree with both the representative Ludvigsen and others who have said that it has been a conscious strategy, and I also believe, if one sees it as a whole, that it has been a successful return to ordinary life and the general existence of all, most of them. I agree with what several speakers have said, that we are not quite in the goal in all municipalities. It's quite obvious. To Giltun's representative, I would say that whether you're young or old, no matter what diagnosis you have, it's supposed to be so that you get help at the right level, but it's something other than wanting to rebuild special institutions within the specialist health service. I also don't feel that there is a majority who have asked for it here. Recruitment and competence are important keywords that have been used by several speakers, including: The representative, Mr Bøhler, is also concerned with interaction and interaction. That's where I think there's an unbelievably large amount of stuff. Some of the most unworthy situations we see in healthcare are just lack of interaction and interaction between the different levels of service. It works with the government, and we come back with something about it, if not for a long time. So to the representative Sjøli, who brought it up with forced use, and to the representative Hareide, who also had constructive contributions in terms of both interaction, the question of action plan and other matters. First of all, I would like to say to it by forcing it to work with the Social and Health Directorate, because it is an declared goal that we should have as little coercion as possible. That's why we have to have a very conscious sense of it. It's also related to people having to get offers as early as possible, so that you avoid using coercion, and it's related to competence at all stages. So I want to inform you that the government will come back to this in St.prp. No 1st@item: There, we will present measures to people with long-standing and complex needs - some of whom we have had a debate on here today - and, not least, propose ways in which we can improve the interaction procedures. There we will take different measures, so that the Storting is invited to participate and take decisions to make the situation for this particular group of people even better than is the case for these today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e1290	That is when the debate is on case No. 5 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e1303	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no change of line, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e1310	This is a matter of amending the previous decision on the framework for local radio transmission time. In the context of the transition to a new concession period, it is desirable to provide room for concessions with a larger transmission surface and the basis for a more continuous operation of local radios. Most parties agree on this, with a slightly different approach. I assume that the individual parties explain their positions where these differ. It is important to strengthen local radio as a medium to the right. After Lars Roar Langslet dropped diversity 25 years ago, it is now important to give room for a broader and more sustainable economic and broadcasting foundation for local radio. However, in such transitions it is important to make the changes so as to minimise damage to already established activities. We note that in this transition to new concessions it will be possible to satisfy essentially the needs of today's players in this market. However, we think it would be a correct correction that, where there are two transmission networks, one of which is defined as a 24/7 network, you can also facilitate that concessionaire can give up to 12 hours of broadcasts where conditions otherwise are right for it. That is why we are also involved in a proposal on which this is based. I hope, through this case, that we will lay the basis for a new growth in local radio in our country, and that we can now move forward in the process of concessional treatment without further delay. I'm dealing with what the right-hand proposal is on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e1321	The representative, Olemic Thommess, has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e1324	In the public broadcaster's message, the government announced that there would be a matter of broadcasting time distribution when we got a new local radio concession period. The concession period is now due to summer, and there is a need for improvement of the scheme. There's a lot of local radios around the country that wear out financially. At the same time, these radios do an important job for media pluralism, and they mean a lot in many communities. We mean the scheme proposed by the Government, will strengthen the operating base of the local radios and thus help to maintain the lack of local radios. That is what it is overarching politically important. It is good that practically the whole committee agrees on the most important thing. When the general radio is now to be entitled to at least 12 hours of continuous transmission time, we avoid that different niche radios, which make up the majority of the concessionaires on a broadcasting network, can capture much of the most attractive transmission time by dividing the broadcasting time of the general radio into many small parts. This will make it more attractive to improve the coverage of many general radios. At the same time, when we lift the plenary decision on broadcasting time as the Stortinget did in 1995, the new concession scheme will best protect the interests of different groups of local radios.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e1333	As the rapporteur pointed out, this was with local radios or radios, as it was called in the mid-1980s - which were brought into Norway, and which were also very central to bringing freedom of choice in the ether mediums to Norway. Until then, you had just the NRK, and you could choose to listen to the NRK or to turn off the radio. We who experienced this childhood of the local radio, or local radio, as they now call it, know that it wasn't easy to build near-radios or local radios. I was myself with and built the greatest radio in the drama, Radio Fact, now called Channel 1. Many were in the market and tried. Many lost a lot of money, and a lot of radios have disappeared. To survive, many volunteer hours were required. There was a lot of hard work and a lot of money was needed from associations, teams and businessmen. It didn't get any easier after we got the P4, P3 and later also the Channel 24 on online radios. Then there was a significant competition in which local radios had to pick up and try to survive. This has further exacerbated the situation of many local radios. In trying to maximise working conditions for local radios, today’s decision is essentially a good decision. Clearly, this is going in the right direction, and it will prepare the basis for many places to have a full - time radio that can be commercially mobile. I hope that the Government will take serious steps to assess the situation of the niche radios, both in the case of small radio stations, as mentioned in the comments, and also in the case of restrictions imposed on their revenues. There's not much to turn around until you get up to $100,000. Otherwise, the case-rapporteur was referring to the proposal that where two or more networks are available, one should also be able to arrange for an additional commercial concessionaire who may have at least 12 hours of transmission. It should be able to drive in parts of our country. Here I believe that the majority in this Chamber should be more flexible than what it has done in the remarks.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e1344	As the rapporteur was involved, there are some deviations in the setting, and that is what I, on the part of the Christian People's Party, will spend some of my time on. But first, we strongly agree with the setting, which is the opportunity now provided for perhaps even better to ensure the operational capability of the local radio, thus also stressing the importance of many local radios in their community. In the view of the Christian People's Party, consideration should also be given to smaller local radios and niche radios, and some stations will now be affected if the decision of the Stortinge of 13 June 1995 is repealed. In particular, stations are operated by non-profit institutions serving households and non-profit institutions serving households. There is therefore a risk that commercial operators will be favoured at the expense of the ideals. From our side, we therefore already went to the Storting's processing of the broadcasting message "Circking in a Digital Future", which was dealt with in the autumn, against repealing the said plenary decision. In the competition for relatively limited advertising revenue and in the fight for listeners, narrow groups often find less room. Media developments in recent years have also led to more commercialisation and less, not more, diversity of content. On the one hand, we want instruments to promote the diversity of programme provision. We therefore feel that it is unfortunate when the majority goes in to repeal a roll-out decision that until now has given small local radios the right to broadcast time in prime hour, i.e. between 06 and 18. The decision to which the majority of votes refer will have an impact on those stations which send in places where there is only one broadcasting network shared with a commercial radio operator. The commercial player will receive much stronger negotiation cards in the battle for broadcasting time during this most attractive transmission time. I am aware, of course, that for most local radios it is of no importance if the decision on size is repealed, but for the few, the decision is taken seriously. Against this background, we are opposed to the proposal by the majority. The Christian People's Party wants there to be good operating conditions for the niche radios and local radios, and there is a ceiling now set for advertising and sponsorship revenue for local radios of DKK 100 000 or 30 pst. of the total income of the establishment in the year of operation. It is therefore positive that an overall committee in the suspension asks the Government to consider increasing the limits on the amounts. It is also pointed out in the recital that the Norwegian Local Radio Association considers it reasonable to increase the income limit to 135000 kroner and 40 pst respectively. With this I have then addressed the deviations of the Christian People's Party from the majority position.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e1363	The party supports the configuration from the committee. In this context, it is recognised that it is necessary to ensure the framework conditions for local radios by simplifying and distributing concessions with a right to related transmission time. From the centre party's side, we have an underlying concern about whether we're drawing this too far. The consequences of these changes may be that of 40 pst. local radios do not receive concession. It will make strict demands on the allocation process to ensure the main objective of local radio supply shortfalls. There we argued that it would be put on well. The Committee has been aware that these new principles of allocation can stand in the way of good local cooperation solutions between concessionaries and smaller, voluntary radio stations, on which the Christian People's Party representative was involved. Solutions have been achieved on the basis of the 1995 Storting Decision, where all near-radios with concession should have the possibility of having prime hour transmission time. One example is the cooperation on Jären, where there is only one broadcasting network, on which JærRadioen has a concession. There have been JærRadioen and Jären Mission Radio some about half an hour's transmission time for Jären Mission Radio in the morning, as followed by Stortinget's 1995 decision. It is necessary to repeal the 1995 Decision in order not to undermine the full objective of the new allocation principle. However, the majority in the Committee have been concerned about the consequences of such good cooperation solutions. There I would like to refer to the Council's letter of reply, where he stresses that there is still full opportunity for such solutions. The centre party hopes that the new allocation round will provide robust local radios at all, and we hope that we will be able to maintain a lack of local radios throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e1378	The area we are dealing with today has undergone major changes. It has been a difficult and painful process to build up what we have of radio stations today. What Langslet did by breaking the monopoly and adding the concession basis on which we are based today was freedom of choice and freedom of expression - with all the important thoughts at the bottom. It was the right to choose what to actually listen to, and the right to be able to operate radio channels that are also more regionally based than what we had with one state actor. So to what's in the government proposal. I guess it's a saying that's right, but it's wrong. It is entirely «rightly intended» in relation to the principles, to obtain commercially viable concessions, to ensure the framework conditions for those who operate, and actually to have some cleaning up in the ether. What's going to be crazy is when the principle breaks with what's real, when the map breaks with reality. We want competitors where competition works. When we see that it is different around the country, it must be possible to create principles that take into account that the map is different around. That is why the Left has supported the proposal on voting today. I hope that the government parties will see that the map is different around the country. Here, the principles have to be handled a little bit differently in order to actually be able to stand. The assessment of maps and principles for making such important choices also needs to be made in this room. I hope that the government parties will take up the concern that we have that the market is operating somewhere with major players, but because of our zeal, the possibility of working elsewhere does not exist. Actually, it's a different goal for what we're doing than what's going to happen somewhere around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e1389	In Norway, we have a wide and diverse range of local radios. In many places in the country, local radio is important both for information flow and for local identity, and it has many listeners. The background to the local radio transmission time proposition is that the local radio needs predictable and good framework conditions. The economy of local radio is very diverse, and many are vulnerable to changes that may weaken the operational base. A new local radio concession scheme will strengthen the economic base of local radio. The operational basis for commercial general radios shall be ensured and strengthened, while also providing a space for narrower offers. The plan for a new concession period gives us a unified national concession award system. Commercial general radios shall be entitled to at least 12 hours of continuous broadcasting on working days. Then the general radio is given the opportunity to clean a clearly recognisable editorial profile over a longer transmission surface. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to repeal the plenary resolution of 13 June 1995. The Plenary Decision gives all local radio stations the right to send time between hours. 6 a.m. and 6 p.m. 18.00, also in areas where there is only one broadcasting network. A right to 12 hours of continuous transmission time and an end to the plenary session of the Stortingen ensures that in each concession area, general radios provide a continuous transmission surface in the best possible transmission time. I think this will facilitate that local public radios can provide us with vital and exciting local radio services. Thus, the lifting of the plenary decision is an important part of a national commitment to the framework conditions for general local radios. At the same time, I have been concerned that the arrangement needs to be flexible and to facilitate actors themselves to find locally adapted solutions. That's how we ensure that the narrower interests, like different niche radios, also get good expression possibilities. It is important to stress that the abolition of the plenary decision of the Stortingen does not give the general radios the unconditional right to seize the entire transmission time between 1 p.m. 6 a.m. and 6 p.m. 6:00 p.m. The need for transmission time of the Niesje radios at certain times will also be addressed under the new system. The concessionaires shall continue to determine jointly the allocation of transmission time and the Media Authority shall continue to settle any disputes. It is important that we have legislation that allows both general radios and niche radios to operate. Twelve hours of continuous broadcasting, the general radios protect against excessive transmission times and cuts off the broadcasting time of the general radios in many smaller parts, which constitute a majority of the concessionaires on one broadcasting network. So the Storting is a little bit disagreed on one point, and that's where there's more networks -- if you want to have more commercial players there. It is easy to see that it can bring some benefits, but at the same time it can also cause commercial disadvantages by the fact that the economic basis is not sufficient to actually operate two commercial operators. I believe that the balance we have now found between the general radio, the commercial and the smaller organizational and niche radios will be at the best both for those who actively use the network by producing radio programmes, and for the listeners and the sustainability and predictability of local radio in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e1410	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e1414	I understand the main approach taken today, and I think it's important. But when I heard the Council of State's reason for not opening up to two commercial players the few places it is possible to do so, I didn't get this to relate to the situation of press policy and media policy in another area, namely in the case of newspapers. So it's going to be 200 million. kr, or more than that, in press support. The historical justification for press support is to incentivise to No. 2 newspapers. So today it's no. Two newspapers that get $10 million in press support, because it's important to have more than one actor. In the case of short-range radio, one commercial operator should be provided, and not only should this time be given, but one is also afraid that the commercial basis will be split up by two. So there's some kind of justification for newspapers. You can spend $10 million on individual newspapers to gain diversity, while here you can create a code that can exclude a diversity of the few places you can have for two commercial players. I hope that further work will keep this opening -- it's about a few places in the country -- and I think it will be important for these communities to keep the possibility of two parallel offers. It's also true that some places know that there's only one actor could be at risk of getting a big local that's also the owner of the radio. This will also result in an additional concentration on the owner’s side and not just a narrower offer. I also do not think that is consistent with what you try to pursue in other areas, where you try to limit the dominance of single actors in the local media image.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e1425	There are two differences between what the representative of Kvassheim mentions with regard to the newspapers and this with radio. One is -- and Kvassheim, who is a media man himself, knows that you don't need a concession to start a newspaper. It is not a limited resource to have newspapers published on paper. Here we're talking about a limited frequency resource, and that's why we have a concession system. It is important to facilitate that those who are going to operate on this system are both broad and numerous and also have an economic sustainability. The other big difference is, and it is quite right, as the representative of Kvassheim says, that to maintain a diverse newspaper structure requires quite significant statements about the state budget. I don't know if the left-wing representative Kvassheim believes that a similar radio system should then be set up, so that a large amount of press support should be used to maintain this diversity if the commercial basis is not present. At least it was not proposed in the last government period when the party to Kvassheim was in government, and I have probably not seen it in the alternative state budgets so far either. I think it's better to make sure that the actors who actually get the concession have not only a frequency to send on, but also an economic basis to operate on. It creates predictability for the different actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e1432	What made me take the floor was that, in addition to using a technical reason why he should just let go of a commercial actor, the Council of State also used a commercial justification. He said that by having two parallel actors, one would weaken the operational basis of the one that was present commercially. That was the background for me weighing that very heavy in my post. So it's not like we've suggested a scheme of two parallel actors across the country, to be financed from the state budget. On the contrary, we have said that here we are in the unique situation that there are a few very few places there is room for two actors that can be financed on their own. Then it makes no sense that in the case of newspapers, one spends $10 million on diversity, while one here uses legislation to prevent something that could have been a free haven in some communities. As regards the press support, the Left has proposed that a maximum limit of 30 million be set. kr for a single newspaper and that the funds released by that change are to be given to the smallest newspapers and thus contribute to a strengthened media offer in many municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e1441	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e1454	The increase shall now be added to the case No. One, three, four, six.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e1462	During the debate, Mr Solvik-Olsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote a national plan/overview for the construction of wind turbines in Norway. The plan shall provide, inter alia, an overview of costs, positive and negative environmental aspects, impacts on travel life, security of supply and the like.» This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e1485	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e1520	President: In case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e1528	In the course of the debate, Mr Thommessen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to assume that in areas with two or more broadcasting networks concessions, several operators of commercial radio shall be provided with the possibility of defining a transmission network as 24/7, while other networks are combined with general radio/nish radio, and that they provide for the possibility for a concessionaire to have at least 12 hours of transmission.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e1547	The Christian People's Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-01.ana.ud913e1689	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone want a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
