ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e27	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Odelstingen meeting today - and considers it to be adopted. The President will propose Ågot Valle and Åsa Elvik. Other proposals are not available, and Ågot Valle and Åsa Elvik are unanimously elected presidents of Odelstinget's meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e37	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning sitting - if necessary - continue beyond the regulatory time, at 9 p.m. 16:00, until today's map has been processed. - Are there any objections to the president's proposal? - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e53	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 35 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 55 minutes, Progress Party 35 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes and Left 10 minutes. In addition, it is proposed that the Council of State should have a speaking time of up to 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a succession of up to five lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the posts of members of the Government - within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e66	This Monday, 22 September 2008, will later be a historic day. This is the day when the Norwegian Parliament, in addition, once again manifests that the Norwegian natural resources should be as much as possible the property of the people. This is the day we followed up what our ancestors did a hundred years ago. This is the day when the Norwegian people, through their elected representatives, say no - and again no - to the privatisation of the Norwegian hydropower resources. We live today in a world full of major environmental and energy challenges. The good thing is, as we've seen several times, that more people get out of extreme poverty. They feel that everyday life is getting a little better for them as they increase their standard of living. The challenge attached to this is an increasing need for energy and an increasing pressure on the environment and climate. In this context, the Norwegian eternal and impurity-free hydropower is only becoming more and more valuable in the days that go by. Our footfalls have been an important component in the construction of the welfare state, as we know today, except that they have been an important factor in the development of Norway as an industrial nation and a very important contributor in many a public accounting, whether it has our municipalities, state or state. We have built up the water power in our country in cooperation with private capital, and through the relapsing mechanism we have secured the long-term public control and ownership of these valuable resources of ours. This model has been strange, but he has seemed to be both long-term, forward-looking and very good. The homefall model, as he has been until the provisional arrangement came last August, mainly insisted that all public owners, municipalities, county councils and state, could own their power plants forever, while the private owned power plants only for a period, usually 60 years from the time of the concession. After this period was over, the private power plants would return to the state free of charge. Nevertheless, it has not been unusual for many individuals to have a new concession period, called ‘prevention relapse’, when the first period went to the end. This is no longer possible, but it should be added that this was not relevant for so many people. The EFTA judgment referred to the different practices of the public and private rehab schemes - precisely the fact that private individuals only received ownership for a certain period of time, while the municipalities could own forever. But the same verdict accepted that public ownership could be a goal in itself. For this reason, we have proposed a new model, i.e. a consolidation model. The main features of the new model are as follows: The proposition implies that in the future only public operators will be able to acquire waterfalls and power plants above the concession threshold. Most small power plants fall below the concessional limit of 4000 horsepower. The government proposes to legislate the right to convert time-limited concessions to time-limited non-relapse concessions if falls and power plants are overtaken by private actors to public actors. Conversion may promote public ownership in accordance with the objective behind the consolidation model. The private companies selling power plants can at the same time secure long-term power availability through joint ventures in public power companies. The system for private ownership of up to one third of public companies is passed on. It is also proposed to tighten the rules that limit private ownership to one third, in order to ensure that the public ownership of aquifer-owned company is actually at least two thirds. The laws propose a rule on reporting obligations to the Ministry in the event of changes in the private ownership of the water power companies. I would like to stress that all the terms of existing concessions are not affected by the new law. This means that all power plants, such as having conditions for the use of the power of local industrial activities, they will have the same conditions in their concessions both before and after today's decision. The industrial perspective has been much discussed in recent times in connection with this matter. In the last one, this crystallized itself with the opposition's suggestion to the so-called adjusted model, which we can find in the setting. I'm not going to speculate on who had the idea of this creative solution, but I'm going to record that it's very similar, if not quite equal, a kind of model that we got recorded from the not insignificant lobby organisation Norsk Industri for 12 hours in our work on this case. I'm not going to say anything more about it, but leave it alone. But at the heart of the matter is that the whole committee took very seriously - a proposal that briefly stated that today's concessionaries would have an extension of their periods so that they all got equal concession time from the date that this law was implemented. That would mean that all concessions would end in 2069. We asked for the Government's view on the matter and took seriously the conclusion that came out of it. The conclusion of the Government's legal expertise in this field was crystal clear. Such a change of model would be contrary to the premises in the judgment and contrary to EEA law. If the Storting went for the adjusted model, it could put the entire model and thus the entire public ownership of the water power resources at risk. We don't want to gamble with our legacy silver. For us, this is totally out of date. That the opposition relies on legal arrangements purchased and paid by a party in the case who has managed to come to the opposite conclusion, I did not let myself be impressed. For us, it's the neutral agency represented by the government's expertise that's in charge here. Nor should one forget that the Right Party and the Advance Party, which support the model in principle, are particularly sceptical about the public dominance of the hydropower sector. Maybe not so strange if they would like to put the whole new law at stake? Perhaps a solution with the adjusted model in the longer term would lead to their dream solution, a large-scale privatisation of our hydropower resources? I don't know, I just ask myself some questions in relation to the suggestions in the settings and the points that have been made. We have come to meet the industry by opening up to the transformation process at the same time as we are continuing the possibility of private ownership of up to one third of our water power plants. The rule of law means that private concessionaires who are subject to relapses can sell their power plants to the public before the end of the period, and thus realise their values, or they can infuse their values into companies where the public property is at least two thirds, thus retaining its power part forever, but with public control of the power plants. These are possibilities that are now open in the new laws. This conversion aspect therefore gives large potential to private industrial owners. That this could be produced as an industrial enemy game is a big mystery to me. We have never chosen to transfer large billions from the community to private limited liability companies. We've gone to the choice on the contrary. For this reason, I am proud today that we are ensuring and further developing the public ownership of our hydropower resources. The day is historic. For the Labour Party and our partners in the Government, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party, this is one day we can be proud of-- and that's us.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e109	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e112	The representative of Nordtun was, not surprisingly, very negative to the opposition's model, particularly in view of the fact that he believes it is contrary to the EEA Court and the precedents of the case, in particular the judgment that came out. But I still want to ask the representative Nordtun: if ESA had said that the opposition model was as robust as the government model -- let's take it as a premiss -- would the representative Nordtun be willing to vote for the opposition model? Ergo: You don't put the fall-back case in jeopardy, you don't jeopardize the purpose of the government, but you protect the industry for a certain period of time. If that model were just as robust, would he support the opposition model?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e117	I could give the answer immediately: No. Because here it is clear that we cannot play such a game in the Stortinget where we assume that this will lie within the EFTA Court. We have to be clear on what kind of decisions we make in this room. It's only in retrospect that our decisions will be used. We cannot experiment with the public ownership of the hydropower. That is why we are confident about what we are doing, legally, in relation to the EEA and the EFTA judgment. It's not for anything we've been doing for six-seven years in front of this court to get this settled. And the court said quite clearly: we have nothing against public ownership of the hydropower in Norway, but there must be equal treatment between public and private owners. That's the essential, that's what we're trying to do in this case here, and that's what we're doing with this decision today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e125	The representative of Nordtun makes it very clear that the government aims to ensure long-term ownership of water in public hands, and that it aims to ensure powerful industrial opportunities and good framework conditions and long-term sustainability. Now we do both, fight it today, on this so-called historic day, firm. What is the whole of the Landsorganisation, Norsk Industrie, and also the people of Karmøy, so completely misunderstood when they “kjærber” the red-green parties all they can to support the opposition’s proposal, which clearly states that it is the proposal that is with and ensures Norwegian industry long-term?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e132	Ivar Kristiansen can't have realized that it's not one-sided in LO. There are different associations, and in LO they clearly said that public ownership is what's at the center, and that's what's at the top. I am perfectly aware that in my county, Rogaland, things are happening, also in Karmøy, and that they are worrying about the future. But I believe that what we're putting up to now, also to the very highest degree, has industrial perspectives, for example when the same concession conditions stand by in relation to Röldal-Suldal, which Hydro owns today, and which has a fall-back in 2022. The fact that the conditions for industrial supplies to the West are to be maintained after the adoption of this law also guarantees that this will be done. What Hydro himself finds out about where it's most economically profitable in the world to invest, Hydro gets to make her decision, but we're going to set things right. We have done that today. If I end up saying, that's strange when, for example. Eramit in Saudi has a good contract until 2021, Husnes, where Hydro is 59 pst. owner, has reached 2020 and Hydro Karmøy has until 2022 - and these others say this is not long-term industrial contracts.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e141	«A historic day» calls Tore Nordtun this. Yes, it's a heavy day for many, not only on Karmøy, but too many, many others. It is not to be expected that the Labour Party will not go further on the compromise proposal that could have brought together a total size, which the industry is behind, and which claims to be a heavy legal environment within the EEA judgment. When Nordtun says that one is crystal clear that this is not possible, Professor Seierstad, as the Government has used, is far from crystal clear in his conclusion. So my question is, why doesn't the Labour Party agree with this and move on to this compromise proposal? Is that will, is it daring, or is there any kind of incomprehensible chalice going out and going?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e146	It's not an incomprehensible cappphest. We are keenly committed to the development and long-term perspective of industry in Norway. That's why we're not experimenting with the law in this case. We feel safe on the foot we're on - and there's more feet. It has been so constitutionally in Norway that we also place great emphasis on the neutrality of the civil service, regardless of who had to sit in government, and that is a fundamental principle for this assembly here as well. So we can't just go out and buy different models. We're stuck to this. If I end, it's strange that more people are asking now, it's saying "so-called" historical day. This is a perspective that has been a hundred years in Norway and that the Norwegian population has fully supported. And we can't experiment with that. Then I ask Sørfonn to go out and ask his municipalities that have their ownership of the hydropower: how much do they want to cut in their budgets?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e154	Tore Nordtun calls this a historic day, and as a Left-Man, I am in that description. In the rapporteur's statement, I have missed a reference to the Left's efforts to put the fall-back system in place. However, historical events should often be combined with political leadership, and political leadership would say that a relapsing system was set up that was broadly anchored in the Stortinget and could last over time. The government has now neglected to agree unanimously to a model in Stortinget, and we are already talking about rematching. What is the reason why the riddle of principles was put ahead of political leadership that could bring about a unanimous increase in the security of the fall-back system, and indeed strengthen it, while showing some more flexibility to the industry than the government provides?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e161	I'm sorry I didn't say that at first -- I could use several sentences on Left's history around 1909. They have a great ‘co-ownership’ in the amazing thing that was done at the time. We can be proud of that, and we'll give that rose to the left. But I have to say that I'm a little surprised that you're going to doubt the Homefall Institute in Norway and say that we're doing the paragraph work. We're not going to do that at all. But there are some principles that we have to stick together and turn around. We cannot experiment with the EFTA and EEA rules. That's why we have to rely on a legal entity here, and we have. Now I'm not going to ask, I'm going to answer questions. But I have to be allowed to philosophize a little bit and ask about the Left, which in many ways has laid the foundation for the Home Fall Institute, will play this game in September next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e170	Let me first comment on the answer given by the representative Nordtun to the representative Kristiansen. I was in Odda on Tuesday, when the trade movement in industry discussed industrial power and decline. Both Søral and Hydro came out very clearly and said that the solution they now have with Vattenfall is not to be regarded as a long-term solution - contrary to the representative Nordtun here claims. So I think he'll listen a little bit more to what's going on in the business before he goes and takes credit for what's going on. On top of this, it is Swedish Vattenfall that secures this contract and not some of the Norwegian power companies that get the impression of saving Norway. But more interesting is the claim the representative Nordtun had about a third ownership of Hydro in Suldal-Røldal, and what kind of warranty they give for the industry at Karmøy. Both the then Minister of Energy Haga and the current Minister of Energy Riis-Johansen have made it quite clear that one third of the ownership of this power plant does not give any opportunity to take power out for self-sufficiency. Does Tore Nordtun think that the state councils are wrong, or has he expressed himself a little double-sided?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e177	I haven't spoken double-sidedly. It's just to go back to the writing that has come from the Government about the 120 questions that have been asked to the Government in this matter. It is clear that it confirms the terms of the concession I had in mind. With regard to the long-termity of the companies I mentioned, I'm really just dealing with the statements that came up the days these power contracts were in place. I just want to finally also remind Solvik-Olsen of something that we're taking seriously, seriously. On page 38 of the Progress Party’s programme, it says: ‘The party considers that today’s return regime must be abolished.’ It says.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e186	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e189	The last words from the previous speaker are actually a good introduction to my post, because he quotes from the Party Program of the Advance Party, which says exactly what the Stortinge decides now: that today's system of return must be abolished. It's simply a recognition that it has to be replaced by something else. On the other hand, Tore Nordtun has not quoted anything else from the Progress Party programme that says how the Progress Party would facilitate policy as it should be. Unfortunately, it reflects a lot of the debate that has been in front of this issue, where, in the absence of a good energy and industrial policy, one spends more time frightening what the opposition will do. This is a very important matter. There are great values for the nation. These are framework conditions and opportunities for development for one of our biggest industries. Hydropower is central to our development of the energy nation of Norway. The majority of the investment in alternative energy sources assumes that there is hydropower at the bottom, both as a regulator and for security of supply. This should therefore be a debate on how hydropower can create maximum values for the nation, on how we stimulate actors to operate as efficiently as possible, where we challenge each other about different operating patterns, where we make upgrading and expansion of hydropower - just think a little like we thought when we discussed petroleum policy, how diversity is seen as positive and important for the development of value creation. At the same time, there should be a debate on how to use our energy resources to stimulate the development and development of industrial activities in Norway, so that we export products and metals with energy content rather than just bet on being a commodity exporter. During the process of the fall-back case, we have challenged the Government at these points in the hope of developing a robust and long-term model that all the parties are behind, and where the objectives are of an overall national nature. The answers from the Government to our 120 questions and so it has unfortunately hardly affected the challenges I mentioned, either by the current Minister of Energy or the then Council of State Åslaug Haga. The answers, as well as the red-green plays before today, have focused unilaterally on an ideological choice from the Government, where the most important thing is that the government owns as much as possible. What consequences it has for industry, what consequences it has for business, what consequences it has for the ordinary population - it is not mentioned. The government neither mentions nor makes visible any benefits to industry in relation to total value creation for hydropower, nor does it provide any good evidence of how to nationalise more of hydropower to create new benefits for industry and its inhabitants. Similarly, the propaganda machinery of the Government has made a number of horrific claims about the opposition’s model in which one creates a picture that the opposition will give the hydropower free to non-resident capitalists, cf. posts in today's Evening Post by Ryan - probably very well educated in some communist propaganda machines we'd rather not acknowledge. It is known that the counterparty has a bad case when it makes as serious claims as one sees in the Evening Post today. At the same time, let me give tribute to another former SV who has liked to see the light, and the others in the trade movement who have dared to put words on the frustration that now prevails in the industrial environments, as Leif Sande has done. Yes, that frustration also prevails in many working party teams around the country. I noticed that very clearly when I was in Odda and met the industry on Tuesday. Luckily, Sande and part of his peers understand that they will primarily represent their members and not always appear as a hero to the red-green government. The experience of Odda is an industry in motion, a trade movement that, in frustration, sees them now losing ownership of some hydropower. They see that nothing has been delivered in industrial power beyond promises, and they see that there are unexplained framework conditions for alternative energy sources, which, for Odda's part, are a CO2-purified coal-fired power plant. You could get a ‘moon landing’ on CO2 clean coal power on Husnes under Saga's direction, but without framework conditions, it happens very little. The Progress Party has stated in its primary model that we want to ensure national ownership of hydropower. Energy is an important field of activity for the nation, and we will continue the hundred-year tradition in which industry is an active player in the development of our hydropower, thus ensuring further expansion of industry as well. Has it really been an accident for the country that Hydro and Elkem have developed hydropower over the whole country and established industrial activities? It must have been when they are denied that possibility for the future. The industry has, on the contrary, been, we believe, a driving force in this work. I wish I could keep doing that. Norwegian industry has taken note of its innovative nature, both in products, quality, the environment and the economy. There has been a driving force and a prerequisite for the development of business, including: in the case of renewable energy. The photovoltaic industry we're seeing now would not be a fact if we hadn't had Norwegian industry to build on and foreign solar support schemes to finance with. For the Progress Party, this is not about privatising or selling, as some would claim. The party of progress will neither sell the hydropower to the rest of the world nor - even less - give it away for free, as the red-greens claim. It is simply unreasonable to argue like that; it probably reflects the bad thing you have yourself. On the contrary, it is about creating values for the benefit of the nation and for the community. But we have to do it in such a way that we ensure a link between industry and energy, so that industry sees a reason to stay in Norway. Unfortunately, the connection that has been stopped. Public ownership is in itself no guarantee of maximum value creation in the hydropower sector. In spite of countless promises from this government, it has also not been able to establish a system of an industrial power regime that ensures that the coupling can be present. What we are now seeing is that the hydropower is being released from the industry. So the representative of Nordtun claims that this is part of securing Hydro Karmøy. Yes, Hydro Karmøy, with the government's proposal, has an opportunity to sell away from its hydropower. But there is no guarantee that the capital they release will be reinvested in Norway. On the contrary, where we used to have a connection that would make Hydro reinvest in Karmøy, because you can't take the power from Karmøy out of the country, you'll now be freed of the capital that you might be able to invest financially in a Hydro and state-owned Röldal-Suldal. But that capital can just as well be invested in other countries that provide better conditions for industry. So for Hydro, this is pretty much okay. But for those who want to further invest in the industry in Norway, this will lose an instrument. Thus, the Government's proposal is a guarantee for the reduction of industry, where power companies remain as market speculators, without these industrial ties they have had. Such a reduced connection makes private ownership, which this Government, after all, still permits in power companies, only a financial location, and not an industrial activity. It is wishful thinking to believe that one-third ownership of Hydro for Röldal-Suldal ensures investment in Karmøy. Despite the cryptic response of the representative Nordtun in the change of lines, both the current Council of State Riis-Johansen and former Minister of Oil and Energy Åslaug Haga have said clearly that you cannot take out power for self-sufficiency or under the market price, even if you own a third. It is very clear in the replies to letters from the Committee of 4 June, question 11. There is no reason to take power out below the market price. I hope the representative Nordtun remembers that. Thus, the industry’s investment decision on new activities in Norway will undoubtedly be the current and future framework conditions that determine what kind of investment is being made, not historical ties and events a hundred years ago. I'm a little surprised, I have to admit, over the Riis-Johansen Council, which stated that by 2022 Hydro is a long time in relation to an investment in Karmøy. Ergo, we should be involved in securing that investment. In agriculture and forestry, I thought you had a generation perspective on what you're doing. Then you would see that an aluminium factory does not have a life span of ten years, which means that until 2022 it is a long time. When you have an industrial project of 40-50 years, the next ten years are actually very short time compared to the total investment decision you're making. Some people say it's very important that the government owns the hydropower. But why? How has this government secured the Norwegian people or industry as power customers? Does the Norwegian people have price advantages as a result of the fact that it is publicly owned hydroelectric power plants? Is there anyone who sells away from what the market price gives? On the contrary, the amount of the electricity charge shows that it should be seen from the political team that the price was higher. Nor is there any link to industrial power in industry. Had this been the case, I could have agreed to accept the argument that it is a great advantage for the Norwegian people that the public owns the hydropower, but these things have not materialized. I would also like to remind you that the last industrial power contract that was concluded was not for Norwegian public owned hydropower, but for a Swedish hydropower plant. Thus, even Norwegian hydropower is not used to secure the industry these long-term conditions, which the representative Nordtun boasted. Then only the fact remains that the state here will also secure dividends from the last private hydropower plants. But when you know that you have the opportunity to do it through tax and concession terms, it should be unnecessary to take the industrial hydropower plant in addition. Then one still meets the argument that the only alternative to the government model is that Norway loses all control over the hydropower. That's wrong. There should be room for a more reflective and responsible debate on such an important topic. It is fully possible to ensure that industry continues its commitment to Norwegian hydropower and that national control is maintained at the same time. Firstly, the Landssaman conclusion of hydroelectric power municipalities has clearly said that none of their members want to sell their hydropower. With that really the discussion is over. Because if there is nothing to sell, there is nothing to buy either. Furthermore, as a guarantee, the Progress Party assumes a State pre-emptive right in the case of transactions. It ensures the whole political desire here to have national control over this. That the government doesn't take this into account so that we get a substantive debate, I just don't understand. I actually don't understand why it's so difficult, with the experience we have from the Norwegian base and the petroleum industry, to see the benefit of a variety of actors, where most in the hydropower sector will be publicly owned, but where some private industrial actors are also allowed. Why can't you see the advantage of that? In the petroleum debate, everyone says they want more players to stimulate each other. This competition is seen to have value on the Norwegian base, but not in terms of hydropower. Before calling for the sale of heirloom, I would like to remind you that the red-green government will allow a third of private ownership in the hydropower sector. Today it is approx. 12 pst., and we're talking about 6.5 pst. in the case of repatriation. So the private holding is going to increase by 200 pst. in relation to the current situation. The government's model is not just bad. Let me underline that. On the one hand, it's not in any way as bad as I feared. One has shown a reluctance to diversity by allowing one-third ownership, even though I fear that there will be purely financial positions and no industrial approaches from industry. But not least the rental scheme that the Government has announced, we are pleased with. For me, it's almost the same thing if you allow yourself to rent hydroelectric plants for 30 or 60 years, or if you get a concession with a fall-back. That is why I look forward to the matter of the rental arrangement being presented. I think today's procedure would be easier if you had the whole thing to deal with, because then one would also be able to debate what kind of framework private would get. And one would see that this far from being the socialist model that Tore Nordtun boasts of, and that Inge Ryan hopes exists, but it would be a relatively straightforward pragmatic model. What will then be the debate in this Chamber today is why it is such ideological stability towards industry. To me it's incomprehensible. Industry should be given a boost to the way in which they have managed hydropower, by giving them some flexibility by means of a conversion period - that they actually have to change - so that they know that the investments they are making now are valid for that period. So one knows that one in the 2030-2050 is probably not going to make new investments, but then the established industry has at least been allowed to evolve and prepare. It doesn't happen by taking away their hydropower when they get 20 pst. on the way to a new project. The representative of Nordtun has said in the media that Hydro has known that rehab will occur. He thus has no understanding that Hydro is now complaining that they will not be given a new concession after 2022. But then I just want to refer to the answer from Åslaug Haga, the then State Council, to question 1d in a letter from the Committee on 4 June where I ask: ‘Does the Council of State agree that current practice in the event of a fall-back operation has been that the former owner has been granted a renewal of his concession?’ The answer is so short and concise that I have never experienced from a government council from the red-green: Yes. Ergo: Established practice has been to renew the concession. So there's been established practice. Ergo has always had reason to expect that Hydro would get it this time as well. And that's why a certain one should be a little bit more flexibility on the part of the authorities. So it hasn't happened. Instead, someone has thrown the kiss in front of him and has shown that a lawyer - who does not belong to the office - has said that he does not believe that this is compatible with what ESA says. This, I think, is the most critical way of dealing with it. The representative Erling Sande said in the nation that he thought the opposition model was very good, but he didn't think it was acceptable in relation to ESA. We have asked the Council of State to contact ESA and ask whether there are major differences in opposition and position proposals. If ESA had said no, they seem as robust, we could have a completely different majority here today. The problem is that twice the Council of State has refused to try to consult ESA on this, despite the fact that he himself claims that ESA is completely clear. During the hearing, even the government lawyer said that we could not have such a security. I take up the proposals in which the Progress Party is co-sponsored, and hope that some industrialists in the Workers' Party will also support them.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e240	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has addressed the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e245	I followed closely when Solvik-Olsen explained to us how to continue to control national hydropower. I allow myself to quote two points in the programme of the Progress Party: «The party with a foreign language believes that the current system of withdrawal must be abolished.» «Gradly reduce public interests in all types of energy production». These were just two points. Are these positions still applicable in the Progress Party? Does the Progress Party have a hidden agenda here - to reverse this in 2009? I just have to get a prep here. Are we still shooting at moving targets?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e259	It's not moving targets. The proposals made by the Progress Party on the case backlog are simply a concrete statement of the fact that the current system of withdrawals must be abolished. That's exactly what the government is doing, by changing it. Then we have said, and there we have been clear, as we wanted a postponement in the committee's work, that we must have a hearing in our party organization on what alternatives we should have - because it is not out of the way in our programme, we have been open about that. So here there's no moving goal. I think the representative Nordtun would rather focus on what we write in the setting, where we go very far to try to reconcile with the Government, and where we say that we accept the long-term objectives it has. But we're saying that one has to be a little bit more flexible relative to the industry. With the model of the opposition, including the Progress Party, no new concessions for private hydropower will be granted; it will not be renewal integrated into the private hydropower system, but those with a concession today will be allowed to extend it. We consider that to be robust in relation to ESA. I think that the representative should focus on what is our policy in this matter, not on his own interpretations, based on his own assumptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e270	I was a little surprised by the article to Solvik-Olsen. When one sat and heard it, one could believe that there was a local politician from Karmøy who was in and talking for his business. I had expected much more of the energy policy spokesman for Norway's second largest party. There was a lack of long-termity. Seeing the big picture of what the hydropower means was completely absent from the post. Then I register that the Progress Party is already notifying of a rematch in one year. When one knows that nine out of ten Nordics actually support the Government in this matter, I believe this will be a very interesting matter in the 2009 election campaign. That's why I want to ask Solvik-Olsen to confirm from Stortinget's pulpit that you want to fight this case in 2009, so that we get it out to the Norwegian people. Doesn't the Progress Party take or take a rematch in 2009?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e277	First I have to say I'm worried if Inge Ryan didn't hear any long-term perspectives. A lot of my post just went to the need to have this, and on how it has been completely absent - when the government only relates to ideological answers that the most important thing is that the public owner, and not look at private ownership. It is sad if the representative slept under large parts of my post. I said nothing about rematching my post, because I hope that today we can get a decision that is robust and is over time. It will be a few if one supports the opposition's proposal. We don't need more than a few of the last in the Workers' Party with industrial connections to get such a majority. And I also think it is sad to reduce the size of the trade movement in Norway to just make up 1/10 of the Norwegian people. That being said, yes, the Progress Party will try to make changes to the fall-back institute in order to secure industry after 2009. I understand that it is not important for Ryan, as this is only about ideology. For me, this is much more about the great value creation and the long-term management of hydropower, where one has a diversity included.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e287	I found it interesting to note how the Progress Party makes this issue a matter of investment or not investment in an industrial enterprise in the West. The industry in the Western world is important, and we like to talk about it and talk about it, but today it is about the gathering of Norwegian water power resources. And the ownership of them and their control is a theme that the Progress Party shadows away from discussing. Therefore, I would like to ask the representative of Solvik-Olsen straight out: why is it so important, as the Progress Party says, to open up to privatisation and open up to the sale of Norwegian hydropower resources? What is it that one will achieve with that? Why is it important, and why is it urgent, as the Progress Party says?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e292	For the sake of the substance of this debate, it is beneficial that one does not come up with prewritten lines, but actually listens a little to what is being said. I spent a lot of my time explaining that we have neither the goal nor the intention of our policy of selling out the hydropower. And we have as a prerequisite for our primary policy that it should be a state pre-purchase right. But we have said that we want to get to a subsidiary solution. As the representative Sande said in the nations on 22 August: “A good model.” That’s a good model, he said if the opposition had promoted it, but he now stands and argues against it. So it's good to change the position. But the Progress Party has been clear about what we want with national ownership. So we don't see anything criminal or dangerous about the industry being allowed to participate in and develop and operate Norwegian hydropower. By means of concession rules, tax rules and charging rules, it is possible to ensure the value creation and control that the representative Sande calls for, but one must not do so by striking the industry at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e301	What we do today in the Labour Party is to implement another part of our programme, to secure public ownership in the power sector and to ensure the order of restitution. My question, which several people before me have tried to answer, is why the Progress Party does not take advantage of this opportunity to get an impact on its programme. In fact, that programme clearly states that one will wind up the system, one will privatize all public energy production, and one will also privatize Statkraft. Is it so simple that the Progress Party has brought with it that measurements show that over 80 pst. by citizens want strong public ownership in the power sector, and therefore do not dare to promote their own policies? In fact, one has read that the Progress Party has now developed a 100-day program for what to do if they come to government. My question is, would the winding-up of the system of withdrawals and the privatisation of State power be one of the things that will be carried out in the first hundred days, if we were to have a progressive party government in Norway against assumption?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e310	Once again, the premise for the question: our programme says that we are going to wind up today's system. It is essential to put in place a ‘day’ arrangement, because it is only to relate to the reality that existed at the time the programme was written, namely that the current system of withdrawal has to be changed due to an EEA judgment. So we have said - I also said that to a party colleague of the representative Akssen earlier from this place - that we have had a round in the party organisation about what should be our alternative policy. It's all right, I think, because it's hard in advance to say what an alternative policy should be when you don't quite know the premises you're going to put up with. We have been told that as the EEA Court gave its reasons, and thus we have developed our policy, which is well mentioned in the position, and which I have presented from the Chair. But as I have also said when it comes to rematching: Yes, we want to take a rematch on the fall-back system, because we want to ensure that industry can actually be allowed to protect the owner and secure the power of self-sufficiency into its industrial production. The best industrial power solution in Norway is to have its own power, and it is strange that the Workers' Party does not support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e317	I think it's very special to listen to the Progress Party. It's double communication from end to end. Now it is suddenly said that no, perhaps one does not want to liquidate repatriation anyway, but today’s system, the one that was run before the EFTA Court. However, if we look at how the Progress Party and the Right argue in the vote, we agree with what became the main focus of the EFTA Court on today's repatriation system, which was perceived as a discrimination between public and private owners. And even with the adjusted model, to which the Progress Party adds, it will still be a discrimination between public and private, if you are to use that kind of argument, because you will, at a new time, properly, and at a coordinated time, have a return to the state. And so I just have to ask: isn't it so that the Progress Party really - with an adjusted model that might be re-introduced to the EFTA Court, by ESA or by the Government after the ESA may have turned the thumb down - will cheer if it becomes such that the adjusted model falls, so that we get a liquidation of the entire fall-back?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e322	Here's a lot of weird statements. I'm asking the representative to read the program. It says that today's repatriation scheme is to be phased out. There's nothing we're writing up here. It's a bit implemented in the argument against the Progress Party that you don't deal with what the party says. Our primary model will ensure national control of power resources, partly through ownership. We haven't said to privatize everything, but we say that we want to open up to private owners by reducing public ownership. We want to ensure national governance through pre-emption of transactions, and we want to secure it through good concessions and tax rules. It will fulfill the ESA premises, and it will fulfill the same intentions as the Government, but we will achieve higher value creation, because we get the diversity, which this government sees the value of on Norwegian pedestal, but obviously not in terms of hydropower. The adjusted model is exactly equal to the government's, with one exception, and that's that today's concessions are extended to 2066. We've asked the government to evaluate with ESA whether it's robust or not, and it refuses the government, probably because it's afraid we'll get a yes. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e329	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e332	I choose to start this so-called historic day with a quote. It's like: ‘When the general rules of the Industrial Concession Act have been untouched for nearly a hundred years, it is primarily because, throughout the period, there has been a stable and broad political agreement that this is an appropriate and socially beneficial way of regulating ownership of hydropower across changing governments and political developments. The rules on the ownership of hydropower have been a common pillar of the development of Norwegian society and economy.’ This is not a quote from the Right Program - it could have been. It's actually a quote from Ot.prp. No 61 for 2007-2008, which we are dealing with today. When you put on this beautiful fact, it's amazing that you're going to conclude the opposite. Here we have a hundred years behind us, which has been perfectly described as the basis for Norwegian economic development and prosperity development, and today we conclude that it is now time - on this historic day - to wind up the whole system. It is true that SV has been given a large place in this government. I think that if people haven't noticed this today, there will be - you world - some rounds to make the Norwegian people aware that today's decision has broad support in the Workers' Party and the Center Party as well. For the sake of order, I should also clarify what is the primary point of view of the Right in this matter, since the secondary has received very much attention. We want today's time-limited concessions to be made forever, and that existing concession terms are established as they have done and do today. This means that the power available to the industry is used for industrial purposes. We want new concessions to be given to private and public developers on equal terms. We want the state to be given a right of pre-emption – and I repeat a right of pre-emption – in all transactions of ownership interests in hydropower generation. And then we believe that the tax system should ensure that the rent from this valuable, eternal resource falls to the community. Then we have a big discussion about our secondary position, which is a solution based on the government model that the four opposition parties have merged, with a transitional period of 60 years until public ownership falls in full. That's not the big difference between our secondary proposal and what the government is proposing, but it's indisputably established today that the government parties' representatives in the Stortinget, the red-green parties, have not at all been interested in smelling the model that we're proposing. I think it is quite remarkable to record the approach this debate has taken, how it is so dubious to say that we now see reason to wind up the model that we have had and that has been very successful for a hundred years. It is not good enough that you have a public ownership today at 88 p.m., and that the industry does not have more than 6 p.m., you have to make sure that on death and life you take away from the industry the power that is currently going for industrial purposes. At the same time, the large companies are state-controlled. When you use the term historyless, it's my claim that it's a historyless decision we're making today. It has been forgotten why Norwegian hydropower was being expanded in its time, and how the districts that currently have Norwegian industry and that have had Norwegian industry, over a period until the end of the fall-back institute, are now being deprived of the disposal of this power. There is a massive centralization taking place, and one chooses to throw wrecks at the industry that today determines that we can't deal with this in the future, we have to navigate differently. The fact that there has been a close link between direct ownership in force and investment in Norwegian industry for a hundred years in Norway is being wasted. There are kilometres of evidence of this. It is clear that it is good today for the red-green parties that Norwegian industry would like to invest abroad instead of in Norway, if the conditions are better there than in its home country. You can hit your chest and say that we've nationalized the force, and that it's a goal that goes ahead of everything else. It's far from neat, but in the right we're strong opponents of this kind of approach. It helps to weaken the total economy in the country, it weakens the dynamics, it weakens competition, and it does not give us the impulses we have had hundreds of years of experience in getting in place in terms of growth and development. This is a case that is completely destroyed by paradoxes. I just record that one has a bell belief that only the remaining small part of the force is in public hands, primarily through State Power, is this satisfactory in most areas. If you in the red-green parties now take the trouble of talking to the Norwegian industry about what kind of dialogue they have with the public sector on the supply side, I think you get an answer that should surprise them. A single industrial contract between Norwegian industry and Statekraft has not been concluded during this period of government, which is now in three years’ time. In fact, during this period there has been only one industrial contract from start to contract written, and it is Swedish Vattenfall that has put it in place - a foreign owned company, which is initially not particularly wanted as an actor in Norway. When industry tries to do as in other countries, such as France and Finland, and sees if there can be a possibility when the Government has not done anything from its Soria Moria promise of setting up an industrial power regime that won the 2005 elections by promising Norwegian industrial societies cheaper power than they had before, it is now seen that no new players are created on the supply side in this area that is so essential to Norwegian industry. This is going to be a strange situation. We're talking about a very small percentage of the force that has given documented results, growth and development. In Norway, we have an environmental standard in the aluminium industry and metallurgical industry with which no other country can compete. This does not even add the red-green parts to the scale. I'm pretty sure the industrial communities that so far haven't come to know what this will mean, probably will notice it. I don't doubt for a second that the financial directors of Elkem or Hydro think it's a good opportunity to be able to dispose of to any other public agency that you have today, before the value becomes zero, for this can cost a lot of billions. But it is not certain that the employees of the industrial companies in Elkem or Hydro think this is an equally informed solution. So finally, it's amazing that you now see every reason to repair some of the things that have worked best in the Norwegian community. When the red-greens have so many other areas to deal with, you should have saved the community for this. And luckily, we have rarely seen the case before us in the case of the President-in-Office of the Court of Justice of the European Communities. I also think it is a pretty strong judgment that I think should give cause for reflection both in the LO and in the Norwegian industry, when one states that this is an order shop on which the opposition would go. We do like government parties: when we get good suggestions and advice from the outside, we take these into account. It would certainly be lacking that Norwegian industry and LO would not fight for their interests, for their jobs, for their future for themselves and for their daughters and sons. I'm addressing the suggestions that the right has made in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e364	The representative Ivar Kristiansen has drawn up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e369	I will read from a chronicle by Kåre Willoch in the Evening Post on 5 July 2007 about a lack of security. It says: ‘This is not just about getting to Swedes, finding or other related peoples as new owners. If ownership first disappears from the country, there is no longer any control over who can later become the owner of this Norwegian natural resource.’ Further: ‘In the near future it will no longer be about western purchases in other countries, but more about the placement of Chinese and Arabic and perhaps Russian capital in Western business. [[...]] There may be more that will respond if such capital will in some time be controlled over energy supply in the West.» That is when I ask: in what areas does the representative from the Right think that former Prime Minister and Head of the Right Kåre Willoch is wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e385	No, the risk of finding out that Kåre Willoch is wrong, I don't think I'm going to throw up. Then I believe that the representative Pedersen must address the question to others. But the paradox in the bill that is being promoted today, in Ot.prp. No 61, is that today's control of 88 pst. public ownership, which reaches the 90s by today's decision, will allow for a reduction of 66 pst. by the Government's own proposal. I think that here the government parties have to ask themselves the question before they go to the opposition. What we are fighting for is that the small percentage that is controlled by the industry today and that goes to industrial production in Norway must certainly be allowed to remain.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e392	In July 99 years ago, a right-wing man jumped up to the pulpit and fought against a fall-back. Fortunately, that time we had good statesmen, with Gunnar Knudsen and Johan Castberg at the head, who actually managed - against Right's cramped efforts - to achieve a fall-back. In fact, the Knudsen even had to ask cabinet questions when the Right proposed to postpone the whole matter. Then Kristiansen says that one of the best things that happened to Norway is that we had a relapse. It's okay. We were allowed to say we were wrong in 1909. But then Kristiansen comes back and tries to destroy a new relapsing order that in a way ensures the legacy that we are going to pass on from the great statesmen in 1909. Hasn't the Right learned anything over 99 years?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e401	Well, the right has learned a lot over 99 years. That means that the cookbook that was up to date 99 years ago in Norwegian politics has, fortunately, changed. Right is a party that is changing in line with the evolution and demands of time, and is pursuing the policy we must at all times to face the future, as opposed to other parties that have a cookbook that was made not 99 years ago but 199 years ago, and that has the same model as the clue to development. Today you can see how deep it is. There is every reason to congratulate the SV for having managed, through their orthodox ideology, to get the Central Party and the Labour Party to believe that what is being proposed today is a good idea. It's a paradox for me. I understand that the entire trade movement - with a few exceptions - and Norwegian industry is as surprised as I am. I referred in my main post from page 18 in the setting of how successful the fall-back scheme has been. Inge Ryan should re-read this quote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e410	In contrast to the Progress Party, the Right is honest and open in its desire to privatise larger parts of Norwegian hydropower, as is also stated in their programme for the current ageing period. There they point to the need for larger private entries in water power resources. So I want to ask the same question that the Progress Party got, to the Right: why is it important? Why is it so important that more parts of Norwegian hydropower are privatized? Why is it so important that it is opened for the sale of major parts of Norwegian hydropower?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e415	In Norway, we have hundreds of years of experience that clearly demonstrates how successful the dynamics of private and public ownership have been in this area. We also have hundreds of years of experience in seeing that we can take out the rent on the ground, whether it's private or public players behind it. This has created dynamism, development and prosperity in Norway throughout all years. This is a model that has worked, and will work very well, and that is demanded by the industry. I now understand that the red-green parties argue against, but through the Soria Moria declaration, Norwegian industry has been promised to help ensure Norwegian industry's long-term and competitive conditions. We're listening to the Norwegian industry. We want a development today in District Norway, where the Norwegian manufacturing process industry exists. We have good experience of that, and we will ensure that we continue in our future policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e422	The right and left disagreed on the fall-back regime a hundred years ago, and we are today. The left wants to continue the scheme, the right wants to liquidate it. But in the Bondevik II government, we were able to agree. There, the government based its work on the continuation of the fall-back scheme. I have seen that the right in committee work has gone a long way in trying to reach an agreement. What is in reality, together with the Left, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, is a system that strengthens the repatriation system as a whole. I would like to ask the Right Representative about this compromise expressed in the Committee, and I would also like to say that the Right wants a robust system based on the Home Fall Institute that can be firm above the elections that we are facing next year, so that industry and other actors can have a predictable approach for decades to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e429	The answer to Kvassheim's question is a clear yes. Our objective in the future is to change the existing fall-back regime. I'm not going to spend time arguing for why. There we have, among other things: background in today's proceedings as such. We do not aim to wind up the scheme. We want to further modify and adapt the repatriation scheme, based on a competitively robust system that can be ESA-notified. Of course, I have great respect for the father of the Left in this matter, and this is actually an example of how the Left has stood firm on a clear position for a hundred years. It's certainly not so bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e436	This I think is just becoming more and more parody. At least it's going to be terriblely inexorable to the voters. Now I thought I had understood that the primary point of view of the Right and the Advance Party was to wind up the Home Fall Institute. That is at least what is in the setting of this case today. Suddenly, Ivar Kristiansen claims that he would like to agree to a solution -- which is more robust -- to strengthen the fall-back institute, which is the common solution with the adjusted model that the four opposition parties have signed up for. And then my question becomes obvious: why in the world could you not just stand on such a proposal from the opposition, and then say to the voters that this is the option we're going to go for after the next elections, instead of communicating that you really want to wind up the Homefall Institute? This, I think, is very generous, and I would challenge Ivar Kristiansen to say clearly yes or no: is the primary point of view to resolve a home fall, or isn't it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e443	So what SV throws at here is explained explanations and explanations about each other. That's what's the whole background for now wanting to confiscate that part of the power that the Norwegian industry - that is, two-three private owners - is behind today. I have said clearly from - and it has been known throughout this debate - that we want to award new time-limited concessions to both private and public applicants. We want to stand by the fact that the existing concession terms still apply. We want to treat private and public developers in a non-discriminatory way, and then, not unlike what I have seen, a former Minister of Industry in Norway named Finn Kristensen has also proposed, that, in the event of a sale, the public should have a right of pre-emption. There is no need to ask questions about the Right Position is unclear. What emerges is that the government's position is crystal clear - you confiscate the power that Norwegian industry has in place today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e448	Then the line chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e451	When the Stortinge dealt with the fall-back case in 1909, it lasted for 11 days. There was an 11-day debate and a report of 449 pages is available. It tells us a little bit about the dimension of this case. It tells us that it was a matter of which the importance was seen in 1909, and you did a craft of which we are to be proud, and which has stood until today. Now it's our turn! I believe that this is one of the most important issues raised by Stortinget since 1814 - one of the most important issues. That's it in 1909, and that's it now. It's about we've managed to turn our most important natural resource into well-being, because it's belonged to the community. It was slipping in 1906, so then it was 77 pst. of all the hydropower purchased by non-residents, and the right forces, the time that now, worked intensively to privatize the hydropower, preferably to foreign investors. But we had good people who opposed. We, too, who believe in the matter, must do so this time. There's no doubt about the values in this. They're so huge that it's almost incomprehensible to understand it. I come from Nord-Trøndelag, where we have Nord-Trøndelag Electricity. Every year, they return hundreds of millions to welfare in the North Trøndelag: to schools, cultural houses, roads, health, etc. Every year! We can't see that it ever ends. It's about eternity, really. In fact, for all eternity, we're going to benefit from this resource. Oil and gas become a detail in relation. So the question is, why does the matter come up again now? It was said from this pulpit in the EEA case in 1994 that homes were safe within the EEA. But then there are still changes, it came under pressure around the millennium. Who stood behind that pressure is a story for themselves. There are rumors that it was a larger Norwegian company, but let's take it another time. It was then said that it was contrary to EU legislation. So the government has sat down and done the job. And when I look at what the government council, his predecessors, the rest of the government and we belonging to the staging machine have done, it's done a fantastic job, where you can actually keep the fall back after you've been to the EFTA Court and tried the case. Then you come back with a fall-back in a slightly new version, but as good as the fall-back scheme that was in 1909. I think we should be proud of the job that the government has done. What's this about? Well, it's about material values, but it's also about ideology. It's about who owns the hydropower. It's about who's going to benefit from these values. Is it private or is it the community that is going to benefit from it? Homefall ensures that the Norwegian people own and benefit from the hydropower. It ensures that we have national governance over our main natural resource. Nine out of ten Nordics agree. Then I have to take a little visit to the other games. The right-hand side of Norwegian policy was also negative in 1909. If it had been up to them, today most of Norwegian hydropower would have been in foreign ownership. But luckily, the good people stood up, that time it was the Left. I'm proud of what the Left did in 1909. With Johan Castberg and Gunnar Knudsen in the head, you did a job that actually deserves a bust and a statue, which we have of them here at Stortinget. They actually deserved the busts they got, the boys there. But now the Left and also the Christian People's Party fail. It surprises me very much, with the past that not least Left has. I will quote again Fredrik Sejersted, he is Professor Dr. Juris at the Center for European Law at the University of Oslo: ‘Recently, there has been a dispute and debate on a small tab of this big issue. Hydro has been engaged in intense lobbying to ensure benefits beyond what comes from the company's concessions - either by getting rid of the repatriation obligations or by getting long free extensions. Whether such aid would be a reasonable use of Community funds can be discussed. But in any case, it could destroy the whole EEA legal model, because it would weaken the principle of consistent public ownership. Therefore, the proposals are rightly rejected by the Government and the majority of the Energy Committee.» The opposition in Stortinget should also take note of those words. This is one thing we don't play with. This is a matter of great importance that will stand for hundreds of years. If the fight for an industrial enterprise in a municipality in Norway in a way becomes the focus of the debate, one is completely lost. This is not a breach of contract. The concessions given to both Elektem and Hydro are at the end of the concession period. We have a number of enterprises in Norway, for example: Norwegian Forest, which does not have the type of benefits these farms have had. We don't break any agreements, they're overdue. And if we are going to have a fall-back debate every time water falls back to the state, and if we are going to have a debate every time an industrial company has to return by agreement, I have to say that the National Assembly is doing a bad job. Here you have to stand like a pole, here you have to stand straight, and you have to have a spine like you had in 1909 - which at least the majority had in 1909. I believe that the opposition's proposals will put the whole fall back on the line. It is a bit of a responsibility to assume. I read a lot of history. I find it exciting to read about big politicians: Johan Sverdrup, Gunnar Knudsen, Johan Castberg, Einar Gerhardsen and many more. These are politicians who have gone over to the history books with a plus in front of them. I believe that today's opposition, with the attitude they have toward the case of the fall-back, will be a bracket in Norwegian history. And if there is a rematch, and that rematch is won, they will be a failure in Norwegian history. What would have happened if we hadn't had a relapse in 1909? Well, as I said earlier, what would have happened then is that there would be a considerable pressure on buying Norwegian hydropower, because we are sitting with a resource that is obviously very exciting also for the international capital environment, where the yield is so formidable because it has a huge length, and because we can make electricity in our heavy warehouses. It's not just the foxes, it's the magazines, and it's an enormously long-term over this type of investment. And if we're relapsing now, I think we'll get a massive commitment to getting bought Norwegian hydropower. I believe that both municipalities and county councils - hardly Statkraft - will experience that there is a significant pressure to buy Norwegian hydropower, i.e.. that when some decades have passed, much of our hydropower will have been sold out of the country, and forever. I referred earlier to Professor Sejersted. He says this is the most important case the Stortinget has dealt with since 1940 - the most important case since 1940. It's about taking care of our most important natural resource for the future. That's what the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV do, and I'm proud of that. Johan Castberg, who was the Minister of Justice in that government, wanted to have a birthday yesterday. Johan Castberg wanted to be 146 yesterday. I think he would have been proud of the decision that the Storting will make today, but I think he would have been scared about the opposition in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e489	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e492	I think it's a little strange to listen to Ryan, who's trying to turn himself into a tough statesman by pointing out what people have done before him. He refers to the fact that this matter was debated for 11 days at the previous crossroads, without including the fact that this government tried to push the matter through the Stortinget on about 11 days this time, which would not have given much time either for proper debate or for proceedings. Fortunately, the opposition was pressured by the government to postpone this. I'm a little surprised by the representative Ryan, who gives the impression that if you just get public ownership here, everything gets so big. The only vision he came with when it came to public ownership was that then the municipality he knows in Trøndelag could take out more money for welfare development, without mentioning a single vision on behalf of the power industry as such or the industry that uses this power. Then I wonder: can the representative Ryan give some examples of what he wants to achieve by the fact that the state also takes over the private hydropower today - that will develop the hydropower in a different way from what anyone else would have done?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e501	If you debate the matter in June or September, you can take the time to debate it. To question 2: Yes, the state as a hydropower owner can of course sell power to the industry. You've done that, and you'll do that. I believe that many of the municipal and county companies and the state company are interested in selling power to industry as well. I can't see that there's any contradiction in the fact that the state sits as owner, and that you can actually sell this power. We know that there are a number of industrial companies in Norway today that do not have the kind of schemes that Elkem and Hydro have, but they also get the power. Most people buy power in Norway. Then we have a few that have also bought abroad - that's previously referred to, for example. the agreement concluded by Hydro with Vattenfall. It will also happen in the future. The important thing is that we make sure that the government has control of the hydropower resources for eternity.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e508	I have to say I have a great sense of SV's enthusiasm. I understand it well, except for a diametrically different view. This is a tragedy for industry. It is also a very sad day for the environment. We see that Norway could have got a completely new aluminium mill on Karmøy that had been prepared for CO2 capture. We see that the aluminium industry would have been able to look at Norway internationally, as should be done on environmental and climate issues. The problem is that SV is willing to sacrifice this on the altar of ideology. The question to SV's Vice-Chairman is, why are you willing to sacrifice the environment for ideological bargains?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e518	First of all, I left as Vice-Chairman five years ago - but I am still the parliamentary leader. With regard to the credibility of the Right in this matter, it is very small. I have, as I said, cost myself with this book and read the minutes. At the time, similar arguments were used by the representative of Skovholt Gitmark. In retrospect, you can see that the right was wrong. The right was wrong in 1909. The right-hand side is also wrong in 2008. Indeed, the right wants a privatisation of hydropower. They would like Norwegian private people to take the excess of the hydropower, and they want foreigners to be allowed to come in and buy hydropower. We want the hydropower to be transformed into well-being. It belongs to the community. We're using the excess of hydropower for well-being. And then we want governance with Norway's most important natural resource.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e525	SV's parliamentary leader is a practical and solution-oriented person, and therefore I listen with great interest to his post. But I didn't get an answer to everything. The legal hearings showed that there is a considerable scope for action in relation to the premises in the EFTA judgment. When both industry and trade are broadly in agreement, asking for a comprehensive and comprehensive solution as the adjusted model is, the question is: why has SV not put a maximum pressure on using this room to create a more flexible and durable solution? Or is it that they've tried, but together with the Center Party, they've been deflected by big brother in the government constellation, so they didn't get permission to test out this space of action?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e532	As I said in my post, this is such a big and important matter that we don't dare to mess with it by testing out different things. Here we stand as a stake. I refer to what I referred to from the pulpit, from Fredrik Sejersted, Professor at the Centre for European Law and Norway's lawyer in the case of the EFTA Court of Justice, which says: ‘In any case, it could destroy the whole EEA legal model, because it would weaken the principle of consistent public ownership. Therefore, the proposals are rightly rejected by the Government and the majority of the Energy Committee.» That's exactly why we don't want to do anything more. We have won the EFTA Court. Now we have to show that we're standing as a stake in this case and that we're actually not starting to mess up, so we can destroy everything we've done in court.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e542	Inge Ryan is wrong when he says that the left is failing the fall-back case. The left is stuck at its fall-back position. The model that we are presenting today, with the proposals that the Government has for tightening up, represents a strengthened system of relapses. In addition, our intentions are to create a system that is above elections, and so we have adjusted it to what Sejersted calls a 'little tab'. If one had studied the setting as well as the historical documents, it would have been clear that there was a legal disagreement about the possibility of reaching, and it would have been so that the government's arrangement was the relapse position if one failed. Many on the left have criticized the government's scheme because it allows a third of private ownership. Many in SV have called this a gigantic privatisation of Norwegian hydropower. Should the SV actually have that proposal fixed in the vote? Is it undermining public ownership that the Government is now strengthening the possibility of private ownership up to a third through its arrangement?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e555	What is at the heart of the EFTA Court is that there is no discrimination. What you say on the part of the opposition is that there is a doubt as to whether or not there is discrimination. The postponement of going on with that was also tried in 1909. At the time was the forerunner of Gunnar Kvassheim, Gunnar Knudsen, crystal clear--no postponement, then he would go off. He asked cabinet questions as someone would postpone the matter, precisely on the grounds that one would try to get more private people to get into this scheme. He stood like a stake. That should also have been done by Gunnar Kvassheim, in accordance with the story of the Left. We're afraid that if you start messing with this, you can actually risk not being allowed to keep the good return order that the government has achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e564	The representative Ryan had some challenges, to put it that way, explaining to the hall what the visions are for the hydropower of the future. In reply to my colleague Ketil Solvik-Olsen's reply, he insisted that the power should be sold to industry. The representative Ryan is not - and no one else from the government parties - able to answer, is the price the industry is going to pay. Is it so that industry - including with public ownership, e.g. in NTE - can it be expected to buy power for self-sufficiency, as is done in the power plants owned by the industry today, or is it such that both Norwegian Forest in Forest and other actors, Hydro, Elkem and others, will pay the market price for this power, as both Riis-Johansen and other government members have said is a reality?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e571	SV wants to have strong public ownership, but we don't want to set the price of the different energy companies, what they're going to sell the power of the industry for. That's what we think the different energy companies are going to decide. But I am convinced that the public owned energy companies are interested in negotiating with the industry, so that electricity is sold at a reasonable price.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e579	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e582	Following the judgment of the EFTA Court in June 2007, it has been clear that Norway must make changes to the concession rules. This option consists of revoking the policy, imposing a setback for all concessionaries, including for the public, or consolidating the current scheme and making it more consistent. The government has chosen the consolidation model. The Christian People's Party supports the purpose of securing the public ownership of the water power resources. The production and distribution of energy from hydropower should, in our opinion, be publicly owned as far as possible. Contrary to the Right Party and the Advance Party, who primarily want to remove homefalls and smooth private and public owners, the Christian People's Party is behind the main features of the Government's bill. The consolidation model follows in a good way what our Norwegian policy has in this area in approx. One hundred years. In this case, a joint proposal from the opposition party to adjust the Government's bill. The adjustment does not corroborate the objective of public ownership, but means that a relapse will occur simultaneously for all current private power plants. In the consolidation model, private owners are deprived of access to prevent relapses, the possibility of building new waterfalls and the possibility of purchasing power plants or power companies. Direct ownership of power plants is, and has long been, an important source of investment in power-intensive industries in Norway. Industry therefore needs a transitional period to convert to a situation where it no longer owns power generation. Several of the privately owned power plants have a relatively short time left before their return after the current concession. Some concessions already expire around 2020, while others only expire around 2060. The owners who have the shortest time to return to their homes will quickly enter a difficult negotiating position in relation to public buyers. The companies in question will be forced to sell power plants long before the time of the downfall to ensure that there is a price reflecting real competition between the public operators. It's also a fact that, among other things. Norwegian Hydro these days is facing important decisions about future investments in Norway. Hydro has plans to invest up to $8 billion in new melting areas at the aluminiumworks at Karmøy. 600 jobs are at stake. A central element of Hydro's decision is assessments that relate precisely to the safe access to force of the years to come. Continue the power of Hydro's own power plant, Røldal-Suldal, is an asset for any investment on Karmøy, is informed. The opposition’s adjusted model provides for the establishment of a transitional phase-out mechanism for private ownership. The last time limit for the industry to transfer the power plant to the public shall be after the last time the power plant is originally set, i.e. in 2069. Homefalls will then occur at the same time for all current power plants, and there will be a real equal treatment of existing private owners. This will provide a transitional period of 60 years until full public ownership has been completed. In this central question, the Government has rejected all attempts at dialogue with, and a solution in interaction with, the opposition. The Riis-Johansen State Council, by letter to the Committee, stated that the proposal for the adjusted consolidation model could not be brought together with EEA law. During the open hearing of the Committee on 2 September this year, it was demonstrated that there is room for political action and that a model of coordinated relapse will also be consistent with EEA law. Experts before EEA law said that coordinating relapses would not pose any additional risks in relation to EEA law. The council's comment on this information was that this is a chance they're not willing to take. In other words, the Council of State's skepticism is politically and not legally motivated. As a representative of an opposition party on Stortinget, I also react to the fact that the Council of State has refused to assist the Committee in drawing up a new legal text for the proposal on co-ordination of relapses. The Council of State's grounds for rejection, namely that the proposal cannot be combined with EEA law, is legally disputed and widely rejected, which would imply a more liberal attitude on the part of the Council of State. I find it very difficult to understand the government's handling of the issue of co-ordinated relapses. What is behind this strong resistance to the pragmatic solution proposed by the opposition? Is the fear of the European Union so great? And where is it, then, of the EU resistance in the SV and in the Central Party? Or is it really the matter that the government wants to slow down the power-consuming industry? In that case, we are facing a breach of promises from the red-green ones, because in the 2005 election campaign, which few of us forget, the red-green ones promise that the power-intensive industry in Norway would buy power at below market prices. A new industrial power regime was to be introduced, with a special price for industry and a market price for ordinary households. It has long been clear that the Government will not honour the promise of industrial power contracts. Today, we note that the Government will also eliminate the possibilities for the industry itself to secure itself from future price increases through its own power generation. Since I have some time left, I will also mention another issue where the Christian People's Party believes there is a need for changes in the Government's bill. This applies to MuskenSenter, who, together with Sami interests in Sweden, has plans for a series of hydroelectric power projects in Tysfjord and Fauske municipalities in Nordland. The development projects are based on partly Norwegian and partly Swedish water resources. It's about Musken and Grundfjordbotn power plant in the municipality of Tysfjord and about Sulis and Seenste power plant in Fauske. These projects cannot be realised with the Government's legislative proposal. The bill makes it illegal to build Swedish water resources with falls against Norway on the Norwegian side of the border, under the direction of Swedish private and Sami companies in Norway. Furthermore, the proposed law prevents planned Norwegian-Swedish Sami electricity production in Norway based on Norwegian hydropower resources. Together with the other opposition parties, the Christian People's Party proposes that it be opened for an exception in the laws from the requirement of public ownership of waterfalls, under reference to the Constitution § 110a, international obligations and the relationship with our neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e608	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e611	I have listened with interest to what the representative Sørfonn now said about this important topic that we have up today, about strengthening public ownership. And it's the Christian People's Party on today when they support us in this case that hydropower concessions can only be given to public owned power plants according to the law we're dealing with today. That's right. But I want to drill a little bit in another case that Sørfonn mentioned, and it was that one is taken from something, that is, that we take away something from the industry. But Sørfonn certainly knows that the concessions given are time-limited, and this will be returned to the public free of charge. That's what it says in the law that precedes the decision we're going to make today. Then I have to ask Sørfonn: what is now excluded from the industry that you did not know about?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e618	A player does not work, it has been said from several quarters today -- I think the representative Nordtun also said the same thing -- and there are quite a lot of games going on in the hall today. The game from the red-green side is that a drummer passes through a solution on a very spinning political basis, and it gives little wear and tear to the system that is being joined today. It's not going to be very good for the industry. To make this a question of whether a purely legal matter with a good conscience can do it because the industry knew about it, one has not taken anything from it, is not what this matter is all about. Why is industry and trade so busy finding durable, long-term solutions? Indeed, precisely to ensure that Norwegian industry and Norwegian workplaces are maintained and long-term.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e623	I will follow up on what has been my main track towards the two from the Right and the Advance Party. Of course, it's about the relationship between the primary point of view of the Christian People's Party's partners and what has become the point of aggregation, the adjusted model. Even though the Right Party and the Advance Party are now trying to so slightly doubt their primary position, maybe because they realize that it doesn't create a top mood among the Norwegian people to have to wind up the Homefall Institute, that's just what these two parties want. When Ingreigt S. Sørfonn says that our opposition to this adjusted model, which is what collects the opposition, is political and not legal, he is wrong. The resistance we have is both political and legal. What came out at the hearing we had was that the big difference between our model, the consolidated model, and the adjusted model was that all the lawyers agreed that our model is within the EEA Agreement, while their model is not. Then the question is why the Christian People's Party wants to gamble with the Homefall Institute itself, if it's important to do this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e630	This is not about old-timer. If there's someone who's gambling, there's the red-green government parties and the plural government, who's drumming through a case today with a very crazy plurality. I wanted the red-green government parties not to have such a dogmatic hold on this, but to see the value of getting long-term, durable solutions. There I want to praise the Progress Party and the Right, which have a different primary position than the Christian People's Party in this matter, but they've tried to find a compromise in an honest attempt to find a solution that one can gather about, so that a broad majority could stand behind it. The gamble that is happening today is simply that the plurality behind what is likely to be agreed is so crazy that there won't be any peace of mind about this case. It's gambling with industry, and it's gambling with workplaces.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e635	After the legal hearing that Sørfonn pointed out and the committee arranged, there was at least agreement on one thing, and there was disagreement as to whether it was advisable to take a new round with the EU system when it was due to so-called abject relapse, on which Sørfonn used much of his post. Professor Sejersted at the University of Oslo, as one previously pointed out today, advised us not to take a new round, because it could reopen the case and put the principle we had in the judgment under pressure. Then I would like to ask the Christian People's Party and the representative of Sørfonn: what legal competence is it Sørfonn and the Christian People's Party that makes it possible for him to so happily ignore a clear advice not to take a new round on this matter and not take the chance of putting Norwegian water power resources into a new case with the EU system?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e644	It is entirely right for the representative, Mr Sande, to say that there was agreement that there was disagreement. At the same time, there was a considerable consensus after the hearings that there is a room for action. Our call and our criticism are based on the fact that this space of action has not been explored any more - a space of action to find a solution that is durable and collects a wide range of people. Winner's location has been used several times here today - Ryan's representative used a newspaper post. It is easier to stick to the documents that are listed, what is written in the legal recitals, and the conclusion that was passed in an annex from the Council of State. It is true that it had a conclusion, but a careful conclusion, which also in its summary came to the conclusion that there is a significant uncertainty here. Other unhidden legal experts have gone much further in saying that it is quite clear here that this is within the EEA/ESA operating room.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e649	Let me clarify one thing, and that is that it is not the sitting government and the three parties that have addressed this matter. We were satisfied with the model we have today in the case of a fall-back. It was Norwegian Hydro that brought us in for ESA six or seven years ago. After all, we have to take note of the judgment that came, and adjust it. We're now adjusting to the consolidation model. There's to be long-term consistency in the decisions we're making. I just want to ask Sørfonn once again, who says that it's now going the wrong way, and that we're taking away something from industry: what are we taking away from industry? The whole industry knew perfectly well that rehab occurs after 60 years. So what have we taken from them? And then to the last, on long-term: Will the Christian People's Party run a campaign to change the fall-back institute in Norway in front of the 2009 elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e656	An important part of the background story is that ESA got 100 pst. the EFTA Court of Justice. But one also knows that such a 100 pst. maintain as a rule opens to find flexible solutions. That was precisely what appeared in the legal hearings, which later appeared and were confirmed by different legal experts. So when the representative Nordtun asks what concrete industry has been questioned, I will try to give a short, clear and concrete answer to that. That industry has been dispelled, is the possibility of a durable, pragmatic, good solution that has a large number of multiples, perhaps a mass collapse, behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e662	First of all, what I mentioned about Fredrik Sejersted was a chronicle, not an interview. And as far as I know, it's not written with the pen, it's written by the Sejersted seam. Then I have three questions to the representative Sørfonn: Is the Christian People's Party 100 pst. Are you sure a new round will work out? You're 100 pst. Are you sure it's going to be okay, or are you getting old? Question 2: Is there any information in the Christian People's Party that Hydro Karmøy is going to go down if the Stortinge makes this decision today? And question 3: Would the Christian People's Party have a rematch on this matter if they came into position in 2009?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e669	I'll try to take this systematically. When I mentioned Ryan's comments, it was to emphasize that when he referred to Sejerstedt - okay, it was a chronicle - it would have been much easier to refer to the conclusion of the document sent to the Council of State, which the Committee has received. It is more neat to stick to that type of documentation. If I'm 100 pst. safe: No, we cannot be 100 pst. Sure. And that's exactly what our criticism is about -- that the action space one is 100 pst. safe, not tested better. But it's the government that has the key to testing this out. And that criticizes me, because this could have collected the Storting and given a completely different wear and tear for a regime that is today very crazy. Fortunately, I'm not sure about the closure of jobs, but I fear it, and I don't want to gamble with jobs. I want the industry to have good, far-sighted and long-term conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e678	As a result, the string shift has ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e681	This day, we're writing history. A majority in this room today will ensure that the infinite value of Norwegian hydropower resources through public ownership will be under the control of the community, and the values will therefore benefit the inhabitants. For the Central Party, this is a particularly important decision. Ot. pp. No 61 refers to changes in industrial concession law and watercourse regulation law, the laws that are the basis for it as a reoccurrence. In this room, everyone knows what a relapse is, but not everyone in Norway knows that a relapse is a free transfer of waterfalls with associated power plant installations to the state at the end of the concession period. Norwegian politicians’ willingness to control natural resources over time has proved to be very important. A little bit about a water slide first. In Norway, private ownership rights in the watercourse have existed since the landscape laws of the 1000s and 1100s. The private landowners traditionally have our farmers and other businessmen anchored in the local environment. The 1880s were the time when the «left-wing State» abolished the «employee State» after the old Left, where several current great parties were involved, by the Watercourse Act of 1887, ensured that the basis of the watercourse law in Norway became the individual or private system, unlike much of Europe, where there was public ownership of the watercourse. The Water Resource Act of 2001 abolished the Watercourse Act, but passed on private ownership of the watercourse by pointing to the watercourse «belongs to the owner for the reason which it covers, unless otherwise provided for by specific legal conditions». So to the water force. It is not the first time that the Storting discusses water power resources. In addition to the nineteenth century, industrialization is becoming more serious. At the time, Norway was among the poorest countries in Europe, but had large natural resources, including: in our footfalls. The industry needed energy, and the hydropower generated energy. The expansion was mainly provided by private actors from abroad through capital and through knowledge. Panikklova of 7 April 1906 was born after a particularly tough political change of words followed recently that foreign interests were in the process of securing control over several major Norwegian waterfalls. Then followed a little over two months later the temporary law, where the central condition of the concession was the obligation to: «free of charge to dispose of the waterfall with dams, power stations and associated machinery to the State after 75 years from the concession». More about the history of this is quoted by those who have had the word before me, so I'm not going to repeat all of that. At this time it was also that the concession power waiver conditions for the resource municipalities were statutory and that up to one third of the value of the facilities in the event of a relapse would fall to the municipality where the facilities were located. The centre party is and has always been concerned that the exploitation of natural resources should have a ringing effect on the communities where resources are being collected. This is why we are concerned to see how a person can best exercise the right of the municipalities and communities in the future, and we are pleased that the Government will have a new assessment of the state's rights to co-ownership in power development when it comes to long-term availability rights. There's every reason to say that our concession laws for the falls of water didn't come about without fighting and fighting. As at the time, there is also a great deal of disunity about one through the laws of Norway to ensure that the public will also control our great falls in water for the next hundred years. I'm glad that the plurality in this room wants the public to control the waterfalls that are covered by the concession laws in the future. In the future, only publicly controlled companies will be granted concessions for the development and purchase of falls in excess of 4000 natural horsepower. The power plants that were built, and the waterfalls that were acquired before the concession laws came into force at the beginning of the last hundred years, can only be sold to publicly controlled companies in the future. This means that the values of the sales of electricity produced by these power plants will benefit the Norwegian people in the future as well. The infrastructure will remain on public hands. The aim of the Centre Party is to continue and increase public ownership of hydropower production in Norway for the major facilities covered by relapses. For the Central Party, therefore, this has been a very important matter to fight against the EEA Agreement’s monitoring body ESA, which attacked the Home Office as it has been practised by us for almost a hundred years. The Central Party and the Government chose to take the fight against the European Surveillance Agency, ESA. It is not certain that another government would do the same. I am therefore particularly pleased with the work that has been done to help ensure that this was the case anyway. The decision of the EFTA Court of 26 June 2007 stated that public ownership can be an objective in itself and that it does not conflict with the EEA Agreement concluded by Norway. This is the background to the changes proposed by the Government in the industrial concession law and the watercourse regulation law, to which the majority in this Chamber today joins. But let's not get lost in detail and forget about the big picture: Today, the Center Party, along with the majority of people in this room, secures future public control over our waterfalls that are subject to relapses. Energy is and is becoming increasingly important. There is also more and more evidence of the value of renewable energy due to climate emissions from fossil energy sources. The value of the renewable energy, for which water power is also, will in future be reflected in the environmental costs to which fossil energy producers have to answer. The objective of the industrial concession law, given by § 1, is to spread public ownership to the water power by law from the adoption of these changes. This shall be ensured through public ownership at municipal, county and state level. The central party sees the fundamental importance of defending the decentralised ownership structure of society in general, even in relation to the large values represented by the hydroelectric power plants. The issue we are dealing with today also reflects an important distinction in Norwegian policy: the question of who should be in control of natural resources. The Right Party and the Progress Party have tried to turn return cases into an investment or non-investment issue in the industrial plant at Karmøy. Let it be said that the power-intensive industry is also important for the Centre Party, and we must continue to work to find good solutions for this industry. But the answer given by the Right and the Progress Party is to open up our Norwegian water power resources for privatisation, and to open up our Norwegian water power resources for sale to foreign actors. It is not the Central Party's response to the challenges facing the power-intensive industry. We are left with this: the Right Party and the Advance Party want to open up to privatisation and the sale of Norwegian hydropower resources. The centre and the rest and the majority today ensure that these resources are controlled by the community and that the value creation will benefit the inhabitants. This is a good day, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e732	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e735	There was a lot of talk from the representative Erling Sande from the Senterpartiet that you could take interesting lines on. But I think once again that I'm going to come up with what came out during the consultation round, that the consolidated fall-back model would be compatible with the EEA Agreement. As we in the opposition assess it, such a model given to the Norwegian industry would have a significantly longer and therefore also a much better conversion period than what the Government is actually adding up to. My question is this: Why have the government parties - and to the extent that the Council of State - been so reluctant to exploit, as has been said in the past here today, the political space that Norway seems to have in this matter, and therefore also to consider a much better case-by-case model, among other things. for Norwegian industry, of course, than what is the result of the model adopted today, which is district hostile because it places jobs in District Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e742	As I said instead, there was one thing -- and only one thing -- that was clear after the hearing. It was that we got different advice. It was uncertain whether it was wise to take a new round to try out the model to which the representative refers, because one did not know if it would throw up the cards again and put under pressure the principles for which we have already had the advantage of publicly anchoring the water force. Then the Center Party answers: we are not willing to take that risk. We are not willing to bet on that principle to get a new round in the EU system associated with this matter. Then I also have to say that I am not surprised that the Right Party and the Progress Party would go more rounds in the EU system with this. If the target is not a relapse, if the target is not a public ownership of natural resources, there is nothing to lose. What may be more surprising, is that the Left and Christian People's Party join forces with the Right and the Advance Party on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e752	Several red-green politicians have repeatedly said that there are no negative consequences to today's decisions. Concert director Jørgen C. Arentz Rostrup says that Hydro is very disappointed with the government parties. He goes on to say, ‘No other arrangements can replace self-produced power’. According to Rostrup, the plans for the expansion of the aluminiumworks at Karmøy in Rogaland are now being scrapped. At Hydro Karmøy, the most trusted people are more concerned that 600 jobs are going doll before 2010. I have been in several debates with red-green politicians, and one of them took place Friday with the representative Sande in South Thirty, in a recording for the evening. There, Sande says exactly the same thing: he doesn't know that there are any negative consequences out of today's decision. My question is: Does the representative now recognize that today's decision will have negative consequences?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e759	First, I want to say that it is impressive how the Right is constantly trying to reduce this issue to an investment issue or not investment in an industrial plant in the West. What we are discussing here today is much bigger. It's about controlling and owning natural resources. In the debate that Skovholt Gitmark refers to, he said it was an explicit truth that there was no investment in Karmøy. I haven't heard anyone say the same thing. He also said that the state is setting up power plants from the industry. I think it would have been right and forested Gitmark to be honoured to have a slightly less delicate relationship with the truth. But I wonder that the Right does not dare to go into the core of what we are discussing today, dares to stand firm and argue for why it is so important for private individuals to buy into our water power to a greater extent than today, why it is so important that private operators abroad can buy up in our water power.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e766	Thank you for your answer!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e772	The centre party has said in the past that in important matters one must be willing to challenge the ESA system. Today, you have such an important issue that you must not challenge the ESA system. This is one of the many logical flaws in the Central Party's policy in this area. When the opposition model was exposed and at the same time relapsing, the representative Sande was excited. To the nation he said that it was a good order -- perhaps because it was to be read in the territories. But the nations also reach and are important here in the Great Government. When he was enthusiastic about this model, it must be assumed that this is due to the fact that it ensures the repatriation system. Is it, therefore, that if one ignores the juxtaposition as there are different opinions that the representative Sande believes that the model on which the opposition stands stands is a tightening of today's system of return and a good order, as he expressed to the nation?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e779	First, I must be allowed to say that the Left must have an hour's sleep, if one has not found that the Government has challenged the EU system in this matter. One has even had a legal case going on to keep the system that we thought was very good, and that the model that the opposition presented actually looks like. If you ask me, I think the system we had for relapse before we had a case with the EFTA Court was sovereign. It was a very good system, in which we rented power, we lent power to the industry over many decades, which they could use to develop jobs and to economic development around the country. It was a good system, for which the EU is putting a stop. And it must be a crossroads of thought for the Left too, which supports the EEA Agreement, and which at the time presented in the Storting - at least the EEA-related - that return did not jeopardize, that it was exactly what happened.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e786	I couldn't help noticing that in his final post, the representative said that the Progress Party and the Right would open up the entire Norwegian hydropower resources for large-scale privatisation. First, where did he get it? So the question is, today is 88 pst. of hydropower production in Norway under either state, municipal or partial municipal ownership. If you removed the entire repatriation scheme, is there anyone who forces the municipality or state to sell? They can still keep that ownership as long as they like, only they themselves leave it to sell. Is there a widespread distrust that Norwegian local politicians are unable to see the values of having a long-term ownership of the Norwegian hydropower sector? Is that how the Central Party really looks at Norwegian local politicians, that they are unable to understand that this is something that they are going to manage for the good of the people, keep ownership? Why is this case-by-case regime so important?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e795	It's just that the central party has been critical to sell, while the Progress Party, which is Andersen's party, has been open to sell power. But now let's do it separately. I want to ask a counter question to the Progress Party. If you really don't want to privatize - let's say, put aside your application of the Progress Party and see that you don't really want to privatize: why is it so important to open up to privatization? Why should a change in the law that results in the privatisation of the hydropower, if the goal is as Andersen says, retain the resources and use the returns of the inhabitants, as many states and many municipalities do?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e802	I thought the speaker would answer and not ask questions. I called in my intervention earlier for a debate where we relate to the party's policies as they appear in the vote, and did not dictate positions and attack them. The Progress Party has clearly stated that national ownership is important, and we say that we can maintain it through State pre-purchase law. Ergo is very much of the claims of the representative Sande not sustainable. We believe, however, that having private ownership is important, because it allows industry to gain its own power. You can use it for your own sake, which the government's policy doesn't allow. And we believe that diversity is important, just like on a Norwegian base, something the government for some reason doesn't think is important in the hydropower sector. But my question is nevertheless a follow-up to what the representative Kvassheim said, where he referred to the representative Sande's statement in the nation, where he liked the opposition model, but didn't think it was ESA-robust. Then the question is, is the representative Sande comfortable with the fact that his own government didn't even try to consult ESA if the opposition model was actually legal, when he himself thought it was a good model?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e813	I wonder today whether the Progress Party does not want to say very clearly in this Chamber if they want to privatize or not, is because the Progress Party's grassroots might agree with the Government in this matter. I just have to say that it has puzzled me. I wonder again when Solvik-Olsen says that one is not interested in opening up to private ownership. The representative of Nordtun quoted earlier today from the Progress Party's program. The party's progress program was perfectly clear. One wants larger elements of public ownership in all types of power generation. And I assume that hydropower has to be considered as a form of power generation. One wants private entries, and one wants to treat public and private owners in the same way. We know that we have concluded an EEA agreement that does not allow Norwegian owners to prioritise rather than foreign owners. So the conclusion here must be that without regard to whether a desire for privatisation or not wanting greater degree of privatisation - something we haven't got a clear answer to - it can be the result of the Progress Party's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e822	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e825	It's almost a hundred years since we with the Left as an architect and a proponent put in place the legislation that would ensure the long-term ownership of the hydropower resources. The aim was to prevent these resources from coming under foreign control. The goal was that these natural assumptions for value creation should be used to build the country. We have succeeded in both of these main objectives, and the fall-back scheme has been a decisive factor in this success story. The Left Capitalist system is characterised by a «compromise between market-logical efficiency and ethical-democratic justice», writes Rune Schlagstad in the book «National Strategies». It is a proper assessment of the basic political position of the Left a hundred years ago and of the basic position we have today. Then, as now, Left's policy is the golden middleway. It was a deliberate choice a hundred years ago to combine public governance over hydropower resources with letting municipalities play a central role and let them be exempt from the fall-back scheme. And it harmonizes well with the position of the Left today. Our major programme states that we should continue the fall-back scheme, but we should not have a system that leads to a massive transfer of wealth from municipalities to the state. When ESA stated that the legislation in this area was contrary to the EEA Agreement, the position of the Left was clear: we did not share that view. Neither did the Bondevik II government, and had it as its clear starting point for dialogue with ESA. When one did not arrive, the work started to find a new model. It was a clear prerequisite for this work that the law should continue to be based on a repatriation scheme. Against this background, it has been natural for the Left to conclude on the main features of the Government’s proposal, a proposal that ensures and strengthens the repatriation scheme. As I have said several times before in the debate today, it is important for the Left to have a robust model, a model scheme that is viable over a long period of time. That's why we've been committed to building a compromise in the Storting that had this sustainability. The Progress Party and the Right disagree with the Left in the main question. They want to liquidate the repatriation scheme. But in Stortinget they have been willing to reach a compromise based on the fall-back system. I believe that this adjusted model, on which the opposition stands together, is a strengthening of the fall-back regime, because it has all the other tightening elements with which the government has proposed. What you're adding is that a few percent are going to postpone the time of the fall-back. It doesn't undermine public ownership, it's part of securing it. I believe that it is a fundamental feature of this system that it would be very robust, and I think it would also face ESA. I would also like to stress that the opposition's model does not meet the demands of the industry, as one has been able to get the impression of this today. The approach of industry and industry to this has been that a desire to liquidate the fall-back regime, but the opposition model provides an opening that meets the needs of the industry in a more flexible way than the Government proposes. We combine tightening on some points to relax on one. The golden middle road is still the left road. If the Government had shown a willingness to cooperate and cooperate, this model could have been adopted unanimously today. There could be a framework that provided a solid basis in accordance with the hundred-year tradition in this area. Now it's created uncertainty, and it's already talking about rematch. The left does not want a rematch that puts the re-occurrence system at risk. Therefore, we have been principled, but solution-oriented during the treatment in Stortinget. Once again we have experienced, I think, a majority government that has struggled with internal disunity and thus become paralysed in the face of new realities and in relation to the handling of the matter in Stortinget. Several of the government parties have said that they have a great sense of the opposition model, but that it would not have been approved in meeting with ESA. The hearing held by the Committee shows that it is at least questionable. From several teams, it was argued on the contrary that it is likely that the model would come forward. And if one didn't succeed in that, a government arrangement had as a relapse position. It is not the case that if you are willing to test out this scheme, the entire fall-back scheme is put at risk. It is a fact that the Council of State has adjusted its bombastic statements to the realities arising from the work of the Committee and its consultation. He unequivocally stated in letters to the Committee that the opposition's model would not appear in EEA law. Now he has adjusted this to the fact that there is an uncertainty he is not willing to take the chance to continue working with. So I have registered that the government has not found it worth investigating whether it was possible to accept this model. This negative attitude and inaction are in stark contrast to the promises made to industry before the elections. Then it was promised on a broad scale to meet the needs of the industry, and a low-cost power regime was promised for the industry. Now we know that this is not just a breach of promise, but pure deception. The power sector is dominated by public owners. That's a crazy situation. However, it is not least in this situation that it is important to have more strong and competent ownership environment. Regional energy companies play an important role here. In several of these companies, Statkraft has an ownership position that gives them great influence in the companies. It is the responsibility of competition authorities to look at the competitive aspects of this and to avoid the over-dominant role of State power. Ownership limits have also been set and imposed in this connection. But even under this regime, State power can coordinate its work through the regional companies in a way that allows for adverse outcomes. This is the background to the proposal of the Left and Right that an alternative model should be examined for how the State's holdings in the regional power companies can be owned by the State directly or through another State company.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e857	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e860	I've listened to Kvassheim's many lines and now the post and I'm a little bit in doubt about what the Left now really thinks about the fall-back regime when Kvassheim in his post asserted that it was possible to combine the positions of the parties that want to get rid of the fall-back regime, and those who want it. I also noticed an interesting reaction from one of the central people of the Left, the rapporteur in Ål in Hallingdal, Torleiv Dalseide, who praised the Government for good work when it presented the proposition. From this point of view, my question to Kvassheim is: does Kvassheim share the views of the Left's rapporteur in Ål in Hallingdal regarding the description of the government's good work on this proposition and this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e869	Now the representative Kristoffersen makes an attempt to refer to Eel to find disagreement in the Left in this matter. He can't do that. The left gave praise to the government when it presented this model, and so do we here today. We join the main features of the Government's arrangement. But we have an improvement, I believe, which gives a greater scope for action to the industry. To be honest, I had hoped that the Workers' Party would be on that track and find a broad consensus in Stortinget. In the Labour Party, however, it is not difficult to find disagreement. One might, for example: go to Karmøy, which has been central today, where a unanimous local government, including central workers' party people, asks that the government parties go for the opposition. What has been our point all the way around is to combine a robust fall-back model with a scheme that could get so wide a majority in Stortinget that it was stuck above elections and for decades to come. That possibility has been squandered by government parties because of a lack of cooperation and cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e881	I would like to thank Kvassheim for what the Left did in 1909. At the time, there was also a burden from the industry that you wanted special arrangements, which you did not get. So history repeats 99 years later. But at that time you were a little stronger in the faith, with a better backbone, when you saw what kind of values you were playing, than the Left is in 2008. Kvassheim says the government is paralyzed. That's completely unreasonable. We're the ones who've got this through, run a trial and put it in place. It is the opposite of paralysis that this government shows in this case. So Kvassheim takes exactly right that these are two sides. These are the ones who will liquidate the fall-back - the Right and the Advance Party - against those who want to keep the fall-backs. But then you choose your friends, and the left has chosen those who want to retire. Do you trust your friends in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e890	Now, unlike what Ryan did with my question, I'm going to answer the question. Ryan did not answer if it was a defeat for SV to have to be on a scheme that opens up for one third of private ownership. I guess that's because the answer to my question is yes. The answer to Ryan's question is that the Left's position here has been to ensure the repatriation scheme in a flexible way that can provide a basis for broad consensus in the Storting. This position chose the Right Party and the Advance Party to substantially join. Many in the government parties, both locally and centrally, were concerned about finding the same meeting point in the middle. That's not how it happened, and that's what I've called lack of cooperation and lack of cooperation on the part of the parties. So try one with a wide pen and raise your voice to say that this is really about whether you're in favour of or against the fall-back scheme. It's not like that. This time, unlike a hundred years ago, there is a broad majority of the repatriation system, which could also include the right parties if the government parties had been part of that arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e897	It is not always that the answers to these questions lead to the clarification that you really hope for. I was in my line really looking to hear if the Left regards the fall-back scheme as something essential for people and for the nation, not just for a single enterprise. In addition, the holding referred to above has not demonstrated that maintaining a strengthened system of return would lead to a continuation of the holding. I am looking to hear whether Kvassheim really believes that the repatriation scheme which he devalued, linked to a rapporteur from the Left, is not good for the nation in the longer term?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e904	I really have to study the record of my post tomorrow, because I certainly believe that I have repeatedly said that for the Left it is of great importance to secure the fall-back system -- now, as it was a hundred years ago. I have also said that we do not want a rematch in Stortinget that will set aside the fall-back scheme. For the Left, this is a very important matter. That's why we've tried to be so solution-oriented that we can find a way that's sustainable over time. The representative will also be aware that I have not mentioned a single company in my post. This matter is so big that it goes beyond individual companies. But that it can be very important for some companies is quite obvious. Now I hope that the result here is not that e.g. investment decisions in Karmøy are cut off, but the possibility of doing so increases with the Government’s arrangements. So I want to end by saying that the government parties have said that nine out of ten want government policy in this area. I think eight out of nine want strong public ownership combined with good industry framework conditions. It fits well with the opposition model.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e913	Gunnar Kvassheim has said that he does not want a system that puts the fall - back system at risk, and he has also strongly argued for it in this exchange of lines. I want to believe Kvassheim and the Left very much. But there are a couple of reasons why we have some doubts as to whether the Left is so hard on the system of relapses that Gunnar Kvassheim wants to express. One is what appeared in the hearing that we had in the committee. The difference between our model and the opposition model is that all the lawyers and experts agree that our model is guaranteed to be EEA-robust, while the model that Kvassheim prefects is more doubtful about whether the EEA-robust. The second reason, as Mr Ryan also pointed out, is that of four parties that are now proposing an adjusted model, two really disagree in the case institute as such and want to liquidate it. That doesn't really strengthen your confidence that you really want to embrace the Homefall Institute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e920	No Marte Thorkildsen has a strong desire to believe that the Left is on the fall-back system. I can fulfill that desire. We're on that fall-back system, and I've tried to formulate it very clearly. I've shown you what Left has done when we were in government, and I've shown you what's in our program. What is the point that the Right Party and the Advance Party are moving on to this model, which is far from their principle view, is that they are showing a willingness to negotiate that the government parties do not have. For our model is so close to the Government's arrangement that what's the Government's truth witness in the case of jus, it just calls a tab of disagreement. But this tab of disagreement was not, therefore, the government parties willing to work seriously to see if a person could find the basis for a long-term scheme that also better served the needs of industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e927	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e930	When Odelstinget today will adopt the Government’s consolidation model for continued public ownership, it is one of the largest and most principal choices in many years of Norwegian policy. At the same time, it is the execution of a historical process that goes unbroken over a hundred years ago, to the «crisis law» in the summer of 1906 and the first law of repatriation in 1909. At the beginning of the 1900s, all major water spills used were mainly owned by non-residents. Electricity was essential for industrialising the country. On the other hand, Norwegian interests did not have either economic or technical competence to build hydropower plants on their own on a large scale. In order to ensure the continued development of industry, while safeguarding the long-term interests of the Community, a mechanism was put in place whereby falls and power stations would be transferred to the State free of charge at the end of the concession period, known as a fall-back. For natural reasons, I have never been a member of the Left – in the debate here today, much has been about the Left. But what I have is a statue of Gunnar Knudsen placed a few, a little long stone's throw from my farm at home in Skien, and I have followed with great interest the legacy that lies after the old rapporteur in the old Gjerpen municipality at my home. For it was the left-wing chieftains Gunnar Knudsen and Johan Castberg who led the process that allowed municipalities, county councils and the state to own 88 pst. of the hydropower resources. In this way, industrial investment was facilitated while public ownership of the ever-renewable hydropower resources was ensured at the time of the fall-back. The overall objective of public ownership has therefore been established for over a hundred years. Gradually, we know that the county councils and municipalities took over the development of waterfalls and power plants to secure the power supply to most people. The public owners were given time-limited concessions. The objective of public ownership was therefore met. Today we have the situation that about 88 pst. of our larger waterfalls and power plants are owned by the public. The profits of this power generation largely contribute to the financing of schools, hospitals and all other well-being. Regional power companies are also motors in their areas of economic development and innovation. Public ownership therefore gives us both in bag and bag: increased well-being for all of us and enhanced competence and development both in the districts and in more urban areas. In the course of the debate today, I have heard that some people have asked questions about the objective of policy in this area. If this is not the goal achievement good enough, at least I am wondering about it. Today’s Odelstingen proceedings shall lay the final stone to a process initiated by the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, in 2001. It is important to clarify that the Government was well pleased with our concession rules on the fall-back and not wanted changes. ESA, on the other hand, considered our legislation to be discriminatory. The government chose to stand on the current code, so we stood firm. The ESA sued Norway before the EFTA Court. The decision of the Court found that the scheme in force was contrary to the EEA Agreement. However, it was opened up that public ownership of hydropower resources could be an objective in itself, but then ownership had to be made consistent. The EFTA Court pointed to four issues of the current system that had to be corrected: New concessions may not be granted to any person other than public owners. Relapses and power plants can only be owned by the public. The right to a new concession period for private persons in the event of a resale or rental once after the event of a fall-back operation ceases to exist. Sale of more than one third of public owned water and power plants for private use is prohibited. That is the framework for the debate in Odelstinget today. Based on the debate that has been so far, there might be reason to clarify it. Through the consolidation model, we have, in accordance with EEA law, sealed the gaps that the Court pointed out and used the space for action which the judgment gave to strengthen the ownership of the municipalities, counties and the state of hydropower. The Government has amended the rules on the granting of a right of withdrawal on the four points pointed out by the Court of Justice. In addition to these changes, we largely retain the legislation as it has been. But to the extent that changes have been made, it is to pursue the principle of public ownership. We follow the principle of ownership to make the model consistent. The lower limit for waterfalls covered by the Industrial Concession Act is 4000 natural horsepower. This limit is maintained so that the landowners in the districts can expand small-scale power as in the past. The Small Forces Association supported the proposal to extend this limit. We see that there are proposals in Stortinget to increase it to 10,000 natural horsepowers. Such a proposal would undermine public ownership of hydropower resources. Once again, a proposal in the Stortinget helps to weaken the consolidation model by opening up significantly more private ownership, which in turn puts the principle of public ownership at risk and puts public ownership at risk. In the proposal, current legislation on rights of use and long-term right of disposal has been amended. These rules have considerable similarities with the rental of water and power plants. The government has announced that it will promote its own proposal on renting for the spring. This proposition will also make a broader assessment of long-term availability rights. The Committee has raised many questions about the rights of co-workers and, in particular, the possibility of developing larger waterfalls in the border regions between Norway and Sweden. It should be clarified that the Government's proposal does not conflict with Norway's international obligations to safeguard the rights of indigenous peoples. Neither ILO Convention No 169, the UN Convention on Civil and Political Rights or the Constitution § 110a provide the basis for private Sami interests to be entitled to establish a hydropower plant. The obligation of the State under these Conventions and the Constitution § 110a to facilitate Sami development can equally be achieved through public ownership. Then it has to be clarified that the Industrial Concession Act is an acquisition law. The law regulates ownership of waterfalls and power plants when they are to be bought and sold. If other than the State obtains water, it requires a concession for the acquisition of ownership of the water drop. This is what the law has been like since 1909. The current change involves a restriction on the circuit of who can obtain such a concession in line with the consolidation model and the objective of public ownership. The purchase of water must henceforth be public. In a public owned company, Sami interests may, for example: have up to one third ownership. Whether or not to grant a concession to hydropower development independent of ownership of waterfall rights is determined by ordinary concession treatment with an overall assessment of the benefits and disadvantages of the project, in line with the provisions of the Water Resources Act and the Waterways Regulatory Act and the rules of international law on which we are bound by the cross-border routes. These laws do not regulate the ownership of resources, but rather the conditions and conditions under which society can allow the actual exploitation of the waterfalls as watercourse measures in the form of power plants, dams, water transfers, etc. From a historical perspective, it is a milestone that after over a hundred years with a public ownership objective, we are now legislating that the country's hydropower resources belong to and are to be managed for the benefit of the public. This shall be ensured by an ownership structure based on the principle of public ownership at state, county and municipal level. It is also in line with the objectives of the Soria Moria declaration of enhanced public ownership. I have noticed that both the Left and the Christian People's Party stand firm at this overall starting point. When we see which parties were the driving force behind the rules of law that were given over a hundred years ago, it was supposed to be lacking. But I, like other speakers before me, wonder when I see that the same parties have come out on the bold path it is to end up with the so-called adjusted model, which is actually a privatisation without the industry companies involved committing themselves to anything. This would prevent the EEA Agreement. And I am surprised to see that the Left and Christian People's Party is in agreement with the Right and the Advance Party on the proposal that the fifth paragraph of Section 1 of the Act should allow exceptions to the requirement of public ownership, primarily based on the relationship with the Basic Law § 110a, the rules of international law and the relationship with our neighbouring country. I consider it appropriate to ask questions in this proposal also on the basis of the wording of the minority comment: «The exemption from the requirement of public ownership must also be understood in such a way that the concession to acquire ownership of water - as is apparent in Section 2 - may also be granted to others, where special rights and the obligations of the State must be exercised.» I don't think the proposal seems well thought out if there's only consideration for the rights of indigenous peoples the minority has in mind. The wording of the proposal is quite general and is an open door for discretionary exemption from the requirement of public ownership. It constitutes, together with the other minority proposals, an undermining of the consolidation model and the objective of public ownership, to which the same parties claim to belong. It is possible that the Right Party and the Advance Party have seen something in the joint comments on this proposal that others have not seen, in relation to achieving the objectives set by the various parties in this matter. The adjusted model of the opposition means that all concessions to repatriated individuals are to be extended to 2069. A central point in the judgment of the EFTA Court is that no new concessions or extension to private parties may be granted. The Government has reason to believe that there is a high risk that the model may be contrary to EEA law and the EFTA Court judgment. Introducing such a scheme will be a game of chance with the community's ownership of the hydropower. Nor will such a solution strengthen public ownership, which is the objective of the consolidation model. On the contrary, this model would result in a privatisation for a significant period of time, and it would be worth noting to power plant owners who, from the first day, have accepted the original terms of repatriation after 60 years and not after 120 years. Norsk Hydro and NHO-linked Norsk Industrie are engaged in a perfectly legitimate fight for private owners to maintain the power plants for a long time beyond the time of the fall-back. It is my clear assessment that there will be a great risk that such a solution will not be sustainable under EEA law. Once and for all, let me also state that the Government's system provides good opportunities for industrial development. The scheme of one third private ownership of all public companies is to be continued. The right of conversion shall be legalised. In the past, there was only one access to conversion -- now it becomes a legal right. This means that private owners can sell to or merge the power plant with public owners. In this way, private owners can be guaranteed significant compensation for the value of the falls or continue their ownership within the framework of a new larger public company. In the case of sales, there is nothing to prevent settlement through long-term power agreements. Industry may maintain its power plants with a time limit and a fall-back until the agreed time of the return. The first major relapsing occurs in almost 15 years, and the last major relapsing occurs only in 2057. As I said, in my opinion, this is one of the biggest and most important issues the Storting will adopt in this period. I think it's the biggest one. It has solid perspectives for our descendants. I am proud of the solution that the government has actively fought for, and the job that the government party representatives have done to get this through in Odelstinget today. It is quite natural for me that the Progress Party and the Right, on the basis of the party programme, have announced a rematch on the repatriation regime and public ownership. It's 1909 again in this room. These parties really want something different. They want privatisation, they want less public ownership of hydropower. A rematch is something I would strongly warn against, but at the same time I have to say that the debate on this issue, which draws up important political dividing lines, is a debate that I would like to take up in the autumn elections. Red-green lawmakers now have ownership of the hydropower for the benefit of all, as opposed to the Progress Party and the Right, which will radically change this regulatory framework, thus facilitating privatisation in the future. The right-hand side tried the same thing in 1909. They didn't work that time. Nor will they succeed today in their attempt to abolish the public ownership of our common footfalls. Norwegian hydropower shall not be wasted in this way. The hydropower belongs to you and me. Let me quote the industrial concession law § 1: ‘The country’s hydropower resources belong to and shall be managed for the benefit of the public. This shall be ensured through public ownership at State, county and municipal level.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e996	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e999	If the Council of State had come out of its ideological bubble, he would have seen that the opposition has shown very great satisfaction in getting to a broad, robust and long-term solution. The arrogance we were shown when dealing with this matter is missing, not least when we discuss the law. Many have referred to the juxtaposition to dismiss the opposition's proposals despite the fact that many, including in the government parties, think that is a good solution. The representative Sande said in the nation on August 22 that it is a good model, but he is uncertain whether it is durable to ESA. However, the hearing showed that there are very many lawyers who believe that the models of the opposition and the position must be considered equally robust. All four requirements listed by the Council of State have been met, because even in the opposition's model, there is nothing in the system that allows further renewal of concessions. At the same time, the State Council has twice ignored requests from the Committee to consult ESA in relation to the two models. Why has the Council of State shown that arrogance and not tried to get ESA to comment on the two models against each other?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1008	First of all, this case has a story that goes back about 15 years, how many thought that homelessness was a matter that was curative to dealing with in relation to the EEA/ESA system. We have that in a rather harsh and brutal way experience was not a reality. That means that we now have to do what we can to make sure that the model we put in place, in a hundred-year perspective, is and is going to be consistent with the system, so that we release new rounds like the ones we've had lately about this. I believe that if there's a case that doesn't allow any room for doubt, it's the case of the case -- with the story and the perspectives that this case has. When it comes to consulting ESA, I have to say I am somewhat surprised at the entrance to this. It is the EFTA Court that has delivered a judgment. In a new round, it will again be the EFTA Court that will judge what they have to conclude with. There are more actors than ESA that are involved in being able to have an opinion on the Norwegian fall-back scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1014	The replicator has used the word arrogance several times. The President would say that it might serve both the debate and the debate climate if the representative found some other words to express the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1017	It can be considered next time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1022	I think the Council of State should be too good to claim that the Right has the aim of abolishing the public ownership of the hydropower. We've never said that, and we've never written that. On the other hand, it's interesting to note that a central party council then until those degrees make a direct kneecap for the entire ESA system. We can probably have time to get back to that. Although we have a hundred years of experience with the close relationship between ownership of power and investment in the Norwegian economy, we have a government and a government council today that thinks it is much, much better that the basic interest rate comes through public, state, county or municipal ownership. I think you'll notice that, whether it's on Karmøy, in the Straumen or the Mos Sea or other industrial sites. So the comfort from the council is that it's just selling. Hydro and Elkem can have billions of values. Is it such that there is one fat for the Council of State and the Norwegian Government to invest in Norway or abroad?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1031	To the end: No, I want Norwegian investment in Norway from the Norwegian industry. I would think it was very good if Hydro made an investment decision on Karmøy, which much of this debate today has been about. With regard to what was defined as my attack on the Right in relation to public ownership, it is the two-part entrance of the Progress Party and the Right to the debate that amazes me most in today's debate - on the one hand ideologically orientated, among other things. in the setting, where long dissertations are written about how ownership of the hydropower should be organised to produce added value in the short term, while one in the debate does not dare to acknowledge it. In the debate, we see that both the Right and the Advance Party fail to stand upright in relation to reduced public ownership. The most concrete thing here is that when the very consistency of the government's proposal for a new fall-back scheme is attacked, we know very likely that the consequence of this is a new round of uncertainty and probably also a reduced value for the fall-back scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1038	The president realizes that many people are getting excited here, but will still ask for the speaking time to be held.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1041	In its reference to the adjusted model, the Council of State calls it a bold journey. He also says that the industry does not commit itself to anything at all. That's directly incorrect information. Homefall is a strong commitment. Then the state council says that the government has close the hole and uses the space for action of the municipalities. Yes, that's good and good, but why not go ahead and test out the national action space that was detected during the legal hearings. My question to the Council of State is: Has the Council of State done anything to test out this space of action that could give us a broad, well-thought-out system or a system that, in turn, could provide a decent situation and equal treatment for business?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1048	I will give the representative Sørfonn right in one thing, and that is that today's debate shows that we are unable to create security in Norway around the future fall-back model. The Christian People's Party, the Left, the Right and the Advance Party have contributed to this. I'm sorry. But it is impossible for the position in the United Kingdom today to guard against another political majority in Norway in the future. We will have to live with that uncertainty. What I can do is do my utmost to ensure that we have a system of withdrawals within the limits laid down by the EFTA Court. And the EFTA Court says there's one case that's consistent, and that's the case of public ownership, and when the case is public ownership, we can't go on a journey that involves more private ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1055	The wheel is central to the different models and the possibility of acceptance in the ESA system. But if we ignore it for a moment, I want to get the Council of State's assessment of the opposition's model - just to get an assessment of the different models available, in relation to whether they undermine public ownership or not. At my best discretion, it ensures the repatriation scheme, it strengthens it in relation to today's arrangements, and it will increase public ownership. I guess it's these sides of the proposal that made Erling Sande so excited that he told the nation that it was a 'good model'. So if we peel off the juice -- just to get an assessment: does the Council of State agree that the model we have, if it had been accepted by ESA, would strengthen public ownership and help to strengthen the relapse regime in relation to today's model?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1062	I believe that the model that I have defended in Stortinget today, which we have also had rounds in the past, is the best. That's my assessment when we have to change. I said in my post, and I've also said it before, that neither I nor the Government had any other need to change the law we had before. But what's the reality of the adjustment that the representative Kvassheim here refers to, is that you push something in front of you. I have to say that I ask questions about this. If one does not dare to accept the principle of the fall-back institution in the main hall today, what is it that one does in 50 years' time when there will be a new debate on the fall-backs of the same concessions, the same power stations, as the Storting has to debate today?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1069	The Council of State indicated in its statement that the purpose of public ownership is compatible with the EFTA judgment in force, but it assumes that public ownership must be a principle that is both coherent and consistent. The question then arises: how does the requirement for consistency in the proposed legislative changes reconcile with the fact that we are now setting a limit by allowing private, despite everything, to build and own power plants of up to 4,000 natural horsepower? We proposed another 10,000. Can the Council of State guarantee that the solution proposed by the Government is really consistent, by nevertheless allowing a significant private ownership of up to 4000 natural horsepower, and we know that the potential for smallpower of this size is significant here in the country? I therefore want a guarantee from the Council of State that this is also consistent with this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1076	What has been the entrance to a level of 4000 natural horsepower is, of course, what is the entrance to the entire legislative proposal, namely to make the least possible changes. ESA has commented on what Andersen’s representative addresses, but the judgment did not consider it to be a significant issue in relation to the consistency of future Norwegian legislation. Then we have chosen to deal with it and also here changed as little as possible, and put ourselves at a level that fits quite well with the definition of small power in Norway - and a level in relation to the 10 MW that is emerging in other contexts related to small power generation. So here we can say that the practice of Norwegian policy relating to small-scale development and what is then in the EFTA judgment is relatively consistent.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1084	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1087	The red-green batches believe that the current set-aside regime should be maintained in such a way as to ensure public and national ownership. The case of the hydropower and the fall-back institute started when Norsk Hydro asked questions under the Norwegian Home Fall regime, claiming that Norway discriminated against private owners. The reason was enough that Hydro wanted the entire repatriation scheme terminated, and thus privatized, which they had, and has, support for in the Progress Party and the Right - except Willoch. Everyone knows that the matter was put in a drawer by the Bondevik government during the election campaign in 2005. In this case, as in so many others, there was probably internal disagreement, especially in relation to the Right. Fortunately, the red-greens took over after the election, and the fall-back case had a different dimension. The Homeland regime has been standing for a hundred years and has given great values to the entire Norwegian people. They are the owners and not private foreign capital. ‘Norway was to defend the interests of society, the state and the local self-governments of this natural wealth’, it said in 1909. I don't see that there's any reason to change that. That's why I'm happy that the three parties that govern the country have the same ideology in terms of taking care of national values. We lost the case in the EFTA Court, but we won on one point: that public ownership is an objective in itself. Municipalities, county councils and the state will now acquire almost full ownership of the hydropower in Norway and ensure that the values are used for good health purposes, schools, kindergartens, roads, etc. It's not right that this will help to bring down valuable industry in our country. Industry can sell the power plant to public owners before it regresses and secure large values of the power plant, or they can still own a third of a power plant in cooperation with the public sector. In addition, all concession terms are unchanged. Many have, as you know, the conditions under which the power is to be used in local industrial activities. This is not to shut down the industry, but to see other opportunities opening up in the new regime. I can't see that the adjusted model of the opposition and their friends can stand in ESA. It is in a way a pre-empted fall-back without the industry paying compensation for the extension. The EFTA Court considered that no new concessions or extensions to private persons could be granted. The adjusted model weakens the assumptions in the judgment. We don't take that chance. The case has to be decided now, there must not be a new, long round in ESA. Diluted ownership can also lead to higher power prices, and then, of course, job losses. Another thing in this proposition is the relationship with the community and their rights. Musken Senter AS in Tysfjord has major hydropower interests in cooperation with the Swedish side, but neither ILO Convention No. 169, the UN Convention on Civil and Political Rights or the Constitution § 110a are violated by the Government's proposal as long as the Industrial Concession Act and the Watercourse Concession Act do not alter the existing right to exploit watercourses. The store will be presented to the spring a matter of rental. In that case, we will also have a review of the county authorities' long-term availability rights. It is important for the regions and the local population. It's strange that the Right Party and the Advance Party agree on this, those who really want to remove the entire county council. Do we smell election fights? This case has prospects for a hundred years to come, and if we allow for sale and privatisation now, the values can be out of the Community's control forever. The workers in the Workers' Party know this, and they know that their own government will find solutions for, among other things. Hydro and Carmine.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1118	From the Norwegian point of view, the issue of ownership and control of the country’s significant hydropower resources is of very high social interest, since nearly 99 pst. of all electrical energy production in Norway comes from our many hydroelectric power plants. For these reasons, Norwegian society is totally dependent on the use of its hydropower system as an energy source, and about half of its total energy consumption is covered by just our hydropower. The importance of hydropower for the development of Norwegian society is also underlined by the fact that Norway remains the world’s sixth largest producer of hydropower, although very little has been developed in Norway in the last 10-15 years. Of course, the natural resource base provided by the hydropower in Norway requires us all to manage for the best of the entire Norwegian people, both now and beyond, into the future. But the matter we are dealing with in Stortinget today is not really a good thing. It must actually be a little bad and difficult for both the government and the case rapporteur to deal with this matter, as they have handled it. I have to say that I feel a little compassion for the rapporteur, Tore Nordtun, from the Workers' Party, who has to facilitate the red-green attitude in the case for the future. Such repatriation now changes, it represents a real nostrils for the government parties, the government and the industry. We all remember too well that the government parties for just about. three years ago promised with hands on the heart that the Norwegian power-intensive industry would receive cheap electricity through a new and own industrial power regime. But this industrial power regime that the red-green promised so loudly, just turned out to be a solid bluff that never happened. The promise of cheap electricity to the many Norwegian industrial communities out in District Norway ended up being a pure fairy tale in well-known Soria Moria style. Now the government and government parties of all things will hurt worse for Norwegian industrial companies. In addition to not having been supplied with the long-promised industrial power regime, at the top of the whole of the notable Norwegian industry, their own hydroelectric power plant will be deprived. Hit it! For the red-green government, the dramatic and old-fashioned step is now to want to nationalise the last small remnant of private hydroelectric power plants in Norway. And remember, the private feature of Norwegian hydropower production today is only 10-12 pst. of total hydropower production in Norway. But the government is now taking radical action and is going to increase public ownership from 88 to 100 pst. in the long term. This extensive nationalisation of the few privately owned hydroelectric power plants, which are mainly owned by Norsk Hydro, is likely to be very dramatic for important parts of the Norwegian power-intensive industry, which we know are located as corner stone farms out in District Norway. The fact that the government party SV has always disagreed with industrial workplaces in Norway is well known and no great surprise in this matter, but that the so-called district friendly centre party can help to beat the legs of traditional Norwegian power-intensive industry in this unthinkable way is almost completely incomprehensible to me. But now all the red-green parties - and to this extent they have done so far today - will explain their decisions in the case of repatriation that it is important to avoid foreign acquisitions and privatisation of Norwegian energy plants and maintain the national and public ownership of our inheritance silver into eternity. Furthermore, the Red-Greens claim - as they have done today - that the EEA Agreement's legal obligations and the EFTA judgment made the measures now being taken by the Industrial Concession Act and the Waterways Regulatory Act imperative. But this is with respect to reporting a truth with many modifications, because the red-greens have not even been willing to discuss alternative models for relapses that would be much better for Norwegian industry. Neither a so-called adjusted consolidation model nor a conditional return model would have been considered, both of which would probably have been much better solutions for Norwegian industry than the changes currently being made by the Government. In my view, it is therefore no less than tragic that the Workers' Party is so unwilling to exploit the political space of action that Norway has under all the sun brands under the EEA Agreement, in order to arrive at a better conversion model for Norwegian industry than what the Government has actually proposed and which is adopted here today. So let me ask, what has gone wrong in the old industrial workers' party on this question? I hope I get an answer to that. The changes adopted today in Stortinget should, in my view, be changed as soon as possible after the next roll-up option if the red-green loses the choice then. We cannot accept that a 100-year-old political ideology on public and national ownership in the hydropower sector will have as devastating consequences for important parts of Norwegian industry as the changes currently proposed can bring. What is now adopted by legislative changes in the fall-back regime, against the votes of the Progress Party and the bourgeois parties, in general, is a very poor solution in the long term for both Norwegian industry and the further development and expansion of Norwegian hydropower production. The government and the red-green parties have little to be proud of in dealing with this matter, and that will certainly show us clearly in the future. The Progress Party, on its part, will have as much equal treatment as possible for public and private hydropower plants, and then we believe that the way to go is not to ban private ownership of Norwegian hydropower stations over 4,000 natural horsepowers, as the socialist government now wants. We in the Progress Party still believe that parts of hydropower production must be able to be developed and privately owned in Norway, even in the future. In fact, it is very unlikely that, if we did not make the changes that the government is now proposing, we would have a large-scale foreign or private purchase of Norwegian hydropower plants. Just a small cross of thoughts about the fear of privatisation and foreign ownership in the hydropower sector: the theoretical removal of the whole 100-year-old fall-back scheme as a whole would not necessarily have meant anything to the world's ownership of the Norwegian hydropower sector. Today, public ownership is almost 90 pst. Both municipalities, counties and the state could simply not sell as much as a single power share to private or non-residents. No one could force today's public owners to sell the heirloom even if the repatriation scheme was removed. In this way, it is not an overwhelming problem that Norwegian municipalities would sell their hydroelectric power plants if the fall-back scheme was terminated in the future. LVK has clearly stated: We do not sell! Neither the state nor the municipalities nor, for that matter, the seller voluntarily replenishes a monetary machine that the hydroelectric power plants in today's energy image are, regardless of price offers from external actors, because of course everyone expects that hydropower will become an increasingly valuable energy system in the future. In my view, the government's proposal in this matter is a little thoughtful. It's a little bit of a time-related solution. I therefore believe, with respect to reporting, that the last words in this case have not been said.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1162	The President would point out that the use of the word ‘bluff’ cannot be considered to be parliamentary.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1165	Rarely has the eins of a breach of vows been lying so vile and disgustingly above this hall as in this very case. Rarely have we seen so many red-green politicians running as fast and as far and yelling as it was done in advance of the 2005 elections, when promising cheap power to the industry, led by no less than Jens Stoltenberg himself, who, according to Stavanger Aftenblad on 9 August 2005, said the following: ‘In a new socialist government, the industry will provide electricity at below market prices.’ [[...]] After the rollover, the tone was completely different. The same Stoltenberg says to the News Agency on 17 October 2006: «To put in place a new system of industrial power at very favourable prices becomes difficult». Finally, Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg said on 23 May 2007: ‘I did not promise cheap power to the industry.’ [[...]] This government has already broken the promise they made in the 2005 election campaign to put in place cheap power for industry. After that, you follow up on this case and take away the power from the companies that have been clear-sighted enough to get power on their own keel, namely Hydro and Elkem. In the odelstingsproposition that we are dealing with now, all hydropower production is over time wanted in public ownership. No new concessions shall be granted to private individuals. There shall be no possibility of selling existing works to private persons and the existing concessions expired shall not be allowed to be renewed. In other words, the scepticism of private ownership is total. The Soria Moria of Fog Home is like a poison cloud for industrial workplaces to count. In a chronicle written by case rapporteur Tore Nordtun, he claims the following: «The proposal we are now promoting is good for the companies». The only question is, Who decides? Concert director Jørgen C. Arentz Rostrup says Hydro is very disappointed with the government parties. No other arrangements can replace self-produced power, he says. According to Rostrup, the plans for the expansion of the aluminiumworks at Karmøy in Rogaland are now haunted. There's an overall opposition that has agreed to a compromise that we also thought would draw the government just a little bit away from its dogmatic point of view, but it did. It was that industry was to own its power plants for 60 years from today. It would at least give the industry the opportunity to change. It would provide a stable environment in relation to planned investments, and it would confront all private owners at the same time of the fall-back. This was probably also the reason why Norsk Industrie and LO-linked Industrie Energia agreed to this. For the Right, it is not willing to sacrifice industrial workplaces in order to destroy ideological bargains. Only in Karmøy alone, there are between 600 and 1,200 jobs, and investments of about DKK 10 billion are at risk. In the 2005 election campaign, red-green politicians almost as on a pilgrimage to Skien to visit the Union and the 380 workplaces at risk. Is a workplace in Karmøy worth so much less that it is hardly mentioned in a word in this room? On 22 September, the Labour Party reimburses Norwegian industrial workers for their support in the 2005 elections. Fortunately, there is a new choice in 2009 that can turn this upside down.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1196	After hearing the representative Gitmark, I must almost recommend him to apply for a job as a dramatist or poet. Here was a lot of free poetry. What we've promised is to secure public ownership. That's exactly what we're doing with this case. Then we'll discuss industrial power next door, but this is about repatriation. SV has still not given up hope that we can put in place a green industrial power regime, and we will come back to that. We who live in Norway today have largely inherited the hydropower. It was built out of previous generations up to 80 years ago. The largest expansion took place 50-60 years ago, in the years immediately after the war. The last expansion took place in the 1970s and 1980s. We know only one form of ownership that fully ensures that the creation of value from hydropower benefits the people, namely public ownership. That's why 88 is pst. power production in Norway owned by public owners. They are municipalities, county councils and the state through State power. This ensures well-being and the environment. One of the first majorities after the Union resolution in 1905 was to ensure official control of Norwegian hydropower resources. It's not random. The concession laws provided the authorities with a strong tool to manage the use of Norwegian natural resources and thus control investments and the value of the use of Norwegian natural resources. An important effect of the laws was also that non-resident owners had to cooperate with Norwegian businesses on development projects. This also transferred knowledge and competence from outside to Norwegian environments. The current setting makes the next choice even more important. People should decide whether they think Norwegian ownership of the waterfalls is important or not. The question has perspectives for hundreds of years to come. If we allow for sale and privatisation, the values may be out of Community control forever. While we, the red-green parties, legislate the community's ownership of the hydropower, the Right Party and the Advance Party will facilitate privatisation and sales abroad. The Christian People's Party and the Left are willing to gamble. Together with two opposing relapsing parties, they're going to be in favour of a model that they think keeps water to ESA, but as many experts think is putting the entire relapsing institute at risk. So the Christian People's Party and the Left choose to trust two parties, the Right Party and the Advance Party, which would really think it best if ESA said Norway had to remove the fall back. Unbelievable! Adjusted model - i.e. with co-ordinated, common repatriation times - will not only mean an enormous transfer of value from public to a few private actors. In addition, it will mean the greatest olding of times with the property of the Norwegian people. The progress party wants casinos, I've read. But that Christian People's Party is so crazy, I didn't think so. The difference between our model and the opposition is that all the experts agree that our model is EEA-robust, while several doubts about whether the opposition is. In any case, it is clear to me that when the main requirements of the EFTA Court are non-discrimination, and the adjusted model provides a few players with great advantages, and that those with the earliest relapse receive greater benefits than everyone else, then there is no equal treatment. That being said, we have a great deal of understanding of the need for long-termity and predictability of industry. The government's model meets the industry's needs by enabling them to take out the values they hold, and the industry may have up to one-third ownership of public power plants. The claim of Ivar Kristiansen is that the entire LO disagrees with our proposal. That's wrong. For example, of those who have now decided in LO, LO State agrees with us. In addition, there are several other actors, including: KS and LVK, fully agree with us. On several occasions our government has shown that it will fight hard for values that are important to the Norwegian people. It is important to have an active attitude and dry to challenge ESA. But when there is a case, it is time to give up. We lost the fall-back case in the first round, but we have used the space of action that the judgment gave to strengthen the community's ownership of the hydropower. We lost the battle, but won the war, as Professor Sejersted said during the hearing. But is public ownership really that important? Or as the representative of the Progress Party Torbjørn Andersen asked instead, Is homefall so important then? Yes. We believe it has its own value that municipalities, county councils and state have direct ownership of the resources. This will ensure that a greater part of the values benefits society and the community. We get a completely squared degree of control. It is important for security and preparedness, because without ownership we become vulnerable. It's not all the things we treat here in the hall that feel just as meaningful. This case is not one of them. This is a matter that future generations will consider, whether we took responsibility for values beyond our comprehension, whether we saw that we have a responsibility to secure these values for the future, so that others, too, are given the opportunity to build the country, or whether we took short-term considerations, set environment, social security and security of supply aside, and gave private participations, including foreign ones, control over the values of the people.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1222	Norway is a country rich in energy. It is these energy resources, together with successful political governance, that have made Norway one of the world's best countries to live in. The force of water has been decisive for the development of modern Norway. It was when the fossan were tamed and turned into electricity, that the development really started. Norway has developed from being one of the poorest countries in Europe to becoming one of the richest. Of course, Norwegian oil and gas resources have enormous value, but these resources will end sooner or later. The hydropower is eternal and will become more important and more important to our country. Emission-free hydropower will increase in value and give huge returns, almost forever. Eternal water power will also give an added strategic significance, and public ownership is important to preserve social security. The so-called paniclova or kriselova of 1906 and the concession law or the law of repatriation of 1909 ensure national control over this important resource. Politicians at that time made some of the most important decisions in Norway's history as a state of independence. They were foreseen the time--the decision stands that day today, a hundred years later. In my view, the thing that Odelstinget is dealing with today, one of the most important, if not the most important thing in this election period. Therefore, we need to have at least a hundred-year perspective on the decisions we are making today. And that's why I'm surprised that some people today are willing to gamble away the entire asylum facility to get a short-term political gain. It is the judgment of the EFTA Court that sets out the framework for the drafting of the rules of the case. We are therefore not free to design a new system. The model for which the minority today is advocating could endanger the entire relapsing institute and, in the worst case, lead to large-scale privatisation and foreign acquisition of our water resources. For the Right Party and the Progress Party, which is basically against the entire system of withdrawals and wants to privatize Statkraft and other public power companies, this may not be particularly dangerous. But that the Christian People's Party and the Left are willing to gamble away the heirloom in this way is both surprising and sad to note. Electricity is a decisive input into a modern society such as Norwegian, but the power industry itself is also very important for Norway. It is claimed that this industry has value of 500-1000 billion kroner. In 2006 a total exchange of over 11 billion kroner was paid from this industry. Today, the power industry is mainly eaten by municipalities, by the state and by the state. Exchanges are therefore aimed at improving public services such as care for the elderly, schools and kindergartens. Private owners would use these money in a completely different way. In recent years, regional power companies such as BKK, Lyse, Eidsiva and others have grown up. These companies stand out as motors for regional development and have inter alia: used its competence in power generation in areas such as broadband, water-borne heat and gas. But also other, smaller power companies have great local importance, both as important and exciting jobs in parts of the country where there are few, and as a local innovator. The force company is also one of the biggest sponsors of sport, culture and other voluntary work. The power industry is important to Norway. For us in the Labour Party, it is important to take care of and develop public ownership in the power sector, at both state, county and municipal levels. We want a model that motivates municipalities and municipalities to maintain ownership in power generation. For us, it was therefore important to find a model of relapse that also provided local and regional ownership. The plans to reoccur also for municipal and county municipal works, such as the previous government, were therefore not relevant to us in the Labour Party. For us in the Labour Party, it is also important to have legislation that does not prevent natural restructuring in the power industry and that leads to continued investment and modernisation and renewal of the power sector. It is crucial that the decisions we are making today are re-examined by ESA. I can see that it is only the government party model that can guarantee that this is the case. And again, it surprises me that the Christian People's Party and the Left are willing to gamble with one of our most important sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1250	For the last three years, I have had the great pleasure of discussing a whole series of topics in this room with the representative Tore Nordtun. And that's how Tore Nordtun discusses something and he has a bad case: the worse the case he has, the higher he speaks from this pulpit. Today, Tore Nordtun spoke very loudly. I noticed later, during Inge Ryan's posts, that he spoke several times calmer. Maybe it's because Inge Ryan in this case has put the thumb screws on Tore Nordtun. All the speakers of the position are talking about robustness. Both political and legal robustness has been mentioned. The representative of Nordtun also mentioned that this was a historic day. Yes, this could have been a historic day, because a total accumulation could have voted in favour of one joint repatriation institute today. This willingness to negotiate - it cannot be called the willingness to negotiate, it can be called the unwillingness to negotiate - the opposition was met in its willingness to compromise, shows me that the Government was not interested in having a politically robust repatriation institute adopted here today. They were more concerned with legal tile nailing. And that the government hasn't had a formal or informal constitution with ESA, just shows that it's true. But then it is said to be more legally robust. The representative Tore Nordtun - once again - goes quite far in claiming that the position's legal advisers have been purchased and paid. I'm surprised that you don't respond to such a play from the pulpit. But then he says that the government apparatus, that is, the expertise of bureaucracy, is, first of all, unhindered and also, apparently, world-class. Now I can mention that the legal assistance we have received, partly through Norwegian Industry, is from Dr. Juris Erling Hjelmeng at the University of Oslo - just so that the man who has been accused of such a thing in today's debate has also got a name. Therefore, helmeng claims that the opposition’s proposal, including the temporary repatriation, will be proportionate to the ESA and the EEA Agreement. Parts of the position, i.e. the Workers' Party, say that this is essentially what he has been pressured to do, while the SV's representatives and the State Council say this is very good. When it comes to Erling Sande, I don't know what he's saying. I tried to follow closely, but I do not know whether he felt compelled to do this, or whether he also believes that this is a very good arrangement. I hope that Sande will correct it later, and I will try to follow it even better at the next crossroads. So Professor Sejersted is not part of the government. He's an employee at UiO. I assume that if he has not been purchased and paid, he has at least been paid for the services he has provided. But the representative Ryan and the Riis-Johansen State Council said that in 2005 it was certain that the fall-back institution would stand by; then the fall-back institution would stand. But who had told the government that it was like this? It was Professor Sejersted. Professor Sejersted said the old fall-back institute would stand. It's the government's reference to the government's right and the opposition's wrong. Then this comes to my mind: with regard to the climate quota law, which we dealt with here just before the summer, I said from this speaker - in a matter that I had worked a lot on - that what we are adopting now is not going to be acceptable to ESA and EEA. Then a few months went by, and then a letter came. Right now we're on this track: If the government needs legal expertise, I'm too far available to assist. But we all know what happened. Riis-Johansen had a very good quote on it, that we lost so it hurt. After advice from Sejersted, the government lost so it hurt, not only in terms of the climate quota law, with which Sejersted had nothing, but also in terms of ESA and repatriation. Then Sejerstedt, the unhidden expert to whom Tore Nordtun referred, comes to the committee as a representative of the government and talks for 6 minutes about politics and for 3.5 minutes about jus. So how unhilded and in line with the principles of central government it is, I don't know. The working party is used to contact, so that you experience such a thing there, I can understand. But I feel that there is reason to question the legal competence of the government, especially when it has not been taken up with ESA. So they say that the natural resources are to be under Norwegian control. I am a member of a party that has great faith in capital forces. I have very great faith in the capital forces, but that the capital forces can move out of Norway and into another country, I have little faith in. I believe that the hydropower we produce in Norway today can be taxed and used for the benefit of Norwegian society, regardless of the proportion of the power owned by the public, by county municipalities, by private, by the state, etc. But what can be moved out of the country is Norwegian industry. And the effect of moving an aluminum mill out of the country is that the climate emissions from one produced tonne of aluminium increase from three to 20 times on average-- that's probably seven times for every single tonne. This must be an incredibly bad climate policy. Today, I understand that the most important matter for the Government is no longer climate, but relapse, and I really haven't had the impression of that so far in this period. Then I strongly react to the ridicule that some of the representatives of the position are trying to make in relation to Hydro Karmøy. Hydro Karmøy is ‘only’ one enterprise, but it is an important enterprise for the area in which it is located, and it is also a symbol of something much, much larger. It is said that it is the hydropower that has produced well-being in Norway, but it is not the hydropower - it is not the light in the houses of ordinary people - that has produced well-being in Norway. It is the fact that we have used electricity to produce industrial products in Norway that have created the well-being of all of us today. This industry is now in grave danger. It's only for aluminium works, 5000 employees and 35 billion kroner in export income. So someone's asking, will Hydro Karmøy go down? The government has ordered Hydro Karmøy to do that. Hydro Karmøy has been informed by the Ministry of the Environment that they will not receive any further exemptions from the legislation they operate after today until they take investment decisions. So there's nothing to discuss; Hydro Karmøy will be closed--if the government keeps its word. And it'll hardly be invested as long as you don't have the power. That power's not coming. Then I am pleased with one thing that is fixed today, that power from public owned power plants cannot be sold to industry for anything other than market price. That's what we've been doing today. Before I go in for a landing, I have to say that when I hear special representatives Ryan and Thorkildsen talk about how dangerous it is with private ownership - because today we are, if it is possible to say so, the ears have been muffled with the fact that private ownership is a uding - and SV today at the same time votes for a scheme that allows private individuals to buy a third of Norwegian power production, I have not been told that there are any restrictions on whether they are from the United States, Yemen or Toten, I had almost said, so here SV goes in to increase private ownership from today's 12 p.m. up to 34 pst. I am so happy about it, but I do not see that it is related to the rhetoric that SV otherwise runs in this case. So back to the historical day. It's not going to be, in my opinion, the historic day that Tore Nordtun is after, because the position says no to the unanimous resolution on the Homefall Institute today. But it's a historic day because the Workers' Party is bringing out the grandeur and beating the first nail in the coffin to the Norwegian industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1293	This is a matter that is not a question of law, but a question of politics. It shows, not least, the statements made by representatives of the Government Parties in the case, which politically justify the decision they are currently taking. So it's a historic day, because the Workers' Party today is taking the final step away from being a value creation party to be a party that only represents the public distribution of public expenditure. In the area of Karmøy, Sauda, Odda and Kvinnherad, we have a unique industrial environment in Norway. Here, a melting plant industry has been built up based on a large supply of hydropower. The raw materials come from a long way, but the power, and not least the competence, is local. This is an industry that in other parts of the world is highly polluting, but in Norway it is a model through the use of renewable energy. Moving this industry from Norway, many will lose their jobs, a unique competence environment will disappear, and global climate emissions will rise. It is therefore important to ensure the continued existence of this industry in Norway and the West. Before the 2005 elections, the red-green parties promised this industry a so-called industrial power regime. As late as last spring, I was present at a meeting with the Nordtun representative in Karmøy, where he promised that now it was just weeks before this industrial power regime would be put in place in the revised national budget. Today we stand with the fasit; the red-green betrayal has never been more obvious to the West than it is today. The Workers' Party has not provided cheap power to industry through an industrial power regime because it is contrary to the EEA Agreement, and is taking away cheap power from industry by confiscating ownership to power faster than is necessary. The consequence is that Hydro is quite clear that there will be no investment in Karmøy. It's not just the management of Hydro that thinks, it also means the employees of Karmøy, it means the trade union of Karmøy, this is the whole environment in agreement. But today, the red-green parties, and not least the representative Tore Nordtun, defend today's solution that public ownership of power ensures good revenue for public welfare. The working party obviously no longer understands that the powerful industry is further processing of power, so that more values are given to the community. Disappearing the powerful industry, valuable and environmentally friendly Norwegian electricity is sold unprocessed to Europe. It will not provide jobs, and it will reduce the income of the state fund. Power-processing industry is a better concept than power-intensive industry, because power-processing industry processes power - Norwegian clean power - in combination with a completely unique competence, and also generates greater revenues than pure exports of pure industry. That the Workers' Party no longer understands these contexts is frightening. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have consistently failed the powerful industry in the West in recent years. In 1997, the Right proposed that Elkem should be bought back AS Saudafallen before the lease agreement with Statkraft expired in 2010. They had large investment plans in Sauda, and such an agreement could secure this. All other parties voted against. The same thing happened in the spring of 1999, when Sauda again wanted new solutions to secure investment in the Saudi community. The right is the only batch that has consistently fought for the industry to own its own power generation. The working party and SV have been equally consistent. But now, unfortunately, they've also got the Center Party on the team. Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg recently said in Dagbladet that we must win Oslo if we are to be able to win the whole country, when he spoke about the party's electoral campaign strategy ahead of the 2009 elections. In Oslo, as you know, it's not a very powerful industry, so it's quite clear what strategy this government has taken on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1310	The President would like to remind you that a word should be used other than'swind', which is not considered to be a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1314	In many speeches today, we have heard about the historic decision of the Storting 99 years ago, when the interests of the people and nation in ownership of the hydropower were regulated. According to Ryan, historian Ryan, the debate lasted for 11 days. It tells us the enormous dimension of the matter at the time and today. Thus, when the majority of Odelstinget today secures the public ownership of hydropower for generations to come, we ensure through repatriation that these invaluable values remain on public hands in Norway. One does not have to be a fortune-teller to establish that the power generation based on our water resources will be almost eternal values for our future generations. If we were to do what the Progress Party and the Right would do, these values would be beyond the reach of the community and control far into the future. The party of progress is acting in this matter, today as so many times before, as a wolf in sheep's clothing. In their programme they go into the process of removing public ownership, but in the rhetoric, in the media and in the pulpit they try to give the impression that the sale and privatisation they actually stand for will give Norwegian society great value. This is the case when ideology and liberalism prevail. Norway and the Government achieved a brilliant result in the EFTA Court of Justice in the matter of maintaining and strengthening public ownership of hydropower resources. It is with wonder and disappointment that we have been able to record that two private companies, including Norsk Hydro, has tried to create the greatest possible disquiet about our fall-back scheme. Yes, Norwegian Hydro even notified the State of ESA, claiming that it broke the EEA Agreement. Nor have I been able to fail to notice that there are opposition parties, especially the Progress Party, which this summer have acted as runners for these companies and uncritically passed on the claims and questions of the companies as questions directly to the Minister of Oil and Energy. Of course, it is understandable that trustees in these companies have followed up their business management in the matter of misgivings about the future of businesses. But I also know that many have recognised that we cannot support a model that is based on strong and progressive public ownership and at the same time say that private owners will retain their power plants, contrary to the agreed fall-back regime. The political divisions between the parties in this matter have now come up well - on principles and on our repatriation arrangements. We therefore believe that the interests of the Community are not only safeguarded by taxation, as the Progress Party and the Right believe. No, in the case of eternal hydropower resources, it is far more important that municipalities and county municipalities and the state remain with the actual ownership. When some of the bourgeois parties today and in the past have tried to trap crocodile tears for industry's power needs and have come with a desire for their own industrial power regime, it's just to remember what the Bondevik II government did: it did nothing. It took away the effort to secure the industry's power. Our answer to this is, as suggested by the Government's proposal and the majority vote: we want to give industry good, long-term opportunities. That is well argued for earlier today, but I just want to mention the two points that relate to the fact that private power plants can sell out to the public and secure their economic values. So they can own up to one third of the power plants. Through such a joint venture, they also ensure long-term power availability.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1333	With the President’s earlier remark that the cork “bluff” or “blush” can be regarded as parliamentary terms, the President needs to say that political opponents are due to be “goads” or in order to trap “crocodile tears” also cannot be counted as parliamentary vocabulary. The President hopes not to charge more such expressions during the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1336	I am pleased that today we are going to decide that we will still have a relapse and in this way ensure that we will also have public ownership of the water force in this country in the future. The fall-back system has a hundred-year history, which has led to the great benefit of the community's value of the fall-backs. For the Workers' Party, public ownership of the water force is fundamental. 88 pst. of all Norwegian hydropower production is eight of public companies that do not have a time limit concession. Nevertheless, the debate has largely focused on the few percentages of hydroelectric power generation for which relapses occur. The fact that we have put in place a system in which we take full advantage of the scope of action under EEA law, which is in line with the judgment of the EFTA Court, gives a far-reaching and long-term perspective. Here I have to say that the government has done a good job. For municipalities and county councils, there's every reason to be happy with the solution we get here. The result could simply have been a completely different one, either by the winding-up of the retirement scheme and by the possibility for private companies to be able to live together, or by expanding the scheme so that the municipalities and county councils also had to give up their power plants in a few decades' time. The arrangements we now adopt will imply that falls and power plants in private ownership are transferred to the State free of charge at the end of the concession period. Today's concession periods expire between 2020 and 2065. Since 1909 we have had an arrangement here in the country that has meant that private eight dishes for water power are passed on to the public after 60 years. For this reason, I find it difficult to understand that some people are making it like the state is taking the hydro and other private owners' water power. The time of the relapse has actually been known for a long time. These have been major discussions on the arrangements we are now adopting to benefit the industry. Yes, this is a good solution! The government’s solution to a relapse will ensure that the power-intensive industry in this country secures access to power and thus helps to lay the foundations for long-term investment for the companies. Industry is able to take out their values, and they are also allowed to have up to one-third ownership of power. By law of the right to conversion, i.e. that time-limited concessions are converted into time-limited concessions at private-to-public pre-relapse halls, we suggest that industrial developments continue in this country. The government will also look at the possibilities of renting out a power plant from Footfalls. While the Right Party and the Progress Party on its part long term want to privatize the water force, it is important for the Workers' Party that we in this way ensure that our energy resources are in the hands of all the people. Here, there are clear ideological dividing lines between the parties. Privatisation will mean significant value transfers to private capital and losses of large incomes for municipalities and countries. Public ownership is important for communities around the country, for example: in Årdal, as I know very well. There and in many other places around the country, hydroelectric power has been central to the development of jobs and to the creation of value. The possibility of using the leg force there led to the expansion of water power, which led to industrial expansion. Now there is a picture that societies like Årdal and Höanger can no longer expect large investments from Hydro. Then I just have to remind you that Høyanger Works has power agreements with Statkraft, Årdal Works has concession power until 2057. Therefore, I must be allowed to site the leader in Årdal Arbeddarparti, Hilmar Höl, who is also active in industry and energy. He says that the future of these works is not on the backlog, but actually on the will to invest. It is important that companies such as Hydro will also invest in Norway in the future, but this matter is much more than securing Hydro ownership of power plants in Röldal-Suldal for 40 new years. It's about who's going to own our own heirloom, Norwegian hydropower. Today's 103-year-old, Håkon Lie, says today that water and waterfalls that we depend on for power generation must be under the control of society, and that these are as necessary values as roads, schools and hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1357	Home Affairs shows how important it is with a government that first sets the community and the long-term. We've listened to this many times today. With the new fall-back scheme, we're putting aside any uncertainty about public or private ownership of water resources - once and for all. This is and will be the community's resources. In my state, Sogn and Fjordane, there has been a relatively high volume in this debate -- this despite the fact that Høyanger does not have a relapse, and that Årdal has a relapse in 2057. Hydro is very much indebted to its behavior in this context. In recent times, one has made it seem that Hydro has decided to invest in Karmøy, in Høyanger and in Årdal, if they can only retain the power that would fall back. Suddenly, all demands for more energy are gone without a trace! The force balance is unchanged, there is no new force inside the image. I want to go back to Hydro a little bit. As I said, the decision on investment in Norway has not been taken. In the last issue of the FLT's newsletter, which came out last week, Reten says in an interview that there are no promises here. He didn't want to make any promises. I also want to use a couple of sentences on which Hydro will tend to keep this amount of force. If you count around 50 cents, you're talking about the value of 3 and 3.5 billion dollars, which we're giving this company for free, without any guarantee that they'll actually bet in Norway. These are the values we take from the community box and community. Several lawyers have expressed their views on the matter, with conflicting conclusions, and I must admit that in the longest hope that the industry's proposals had held a case, that the proposal to extend the private concessions would not create an acute danger for the entire system of return, that this would not be contrary to the EFTA Court's decision - but either of the lawyers could be so confident. In any case, they must be independent, not attached, for example. Hydro or Elkem. There may be reason for someone else to take a look here. What motive would the Government have to say no to the opposition and its industry? What kind of motive would the LO-linked EL and IT have? What kind of motive would LVK have? This is what all industry wants best. The only reason one says no is that in all these environments - and completely independent of each other - it is concluded that if the opposition's proposal goes through, a new case will be guaranteed before the court, and Norway will lose. And then what's a loss? Rich in the system of relapses, they get private eternal concessions, and it's also not possible to come back to ESA and try out a model, and then come up with a third model if the first jerk. The combination of the industrial power regime and the relapsing sacs that the opposition has done does not address the important issue of securing ownership of hydropower resources or the important issue of a future industrial power regime. On the contrary, the combination weakens both things. The industrial power regime must find its solution at a different location from the theme ownership of the hydropower resources. Then I would add that we should, of course, have put forward proposals for a new industrial power regime similar to the case of cases of accidents. This has taken too much time, and on this the government has to take only self-criticism. There is also a different perception of what appeared during the hearing. With all due respect, it was an expert hearing, and it was complicated jus. Also here I choose to listen to independent lawyers. Seat answered questions as to whether the opposition's proposal would stand, that the answer was simple. It was the simple answer that the proposal was contrary to the law of the Court of Justice in Sections 73 and 75. It goes on that when the main objective is public ownership -- and that's what the court has said is okay as an objective in itself -- yes, then a non-reestablish private ownership can. This means, for example: «precautionary relapse» shall be deleted. In other words, if the opposition submitted to extend the concessions by 40 to 60 years is agreed, it is precisely a decision that ‘private ownership of assets should be reestablished’. The media in my country has made a little bit of the difference between the opposition and the government's proposals, such as that the government is going for 2020 and the opposition for 2060. This is directly wrong. In the government's proposal, there is a relapse after the original concession, i.e. Carmine in 2022 and Årdal in 2057. I think it is commendable that a number of the speakers in the industry are trying to find a solution to their industry's long-term need for strength and robust framework conditions. From my side, I would say, unfortunately, we couldn't take the chance that the proposed model would hold. Until then, the Home Office is too important.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1385	It's almost a hundred years since the Stortinget passed the law on the fall-back of hydropower plants. So the law ensures that the values of Norwegian Footfalls are to be the property of the community. That was a very wise decision. Today, when we are discussing the right to return, there is also a side that I am particularly concerned about that it is important to achieve, and that is helping to underpin and strengthen the need for state ownership, namely the security and preparedness side of public national ownership of power resources. There should be no doubt that this is a factor that needs to be strongly emphasised in this assessment. There can be no doubt that it is the public that is best suited to ensure social security in this country. I would also like to refer to the work and conclusions of the Ullring Committee on the right of return. The committee strongly recommended that the fall-back institute be continued in such a way that current public national ownership of power resources was not permanently impaired. In particular, I would like to point to the benefit of public ownership of critical infrastructure as power is. The possibility that ownership of large parts of power plants can be transferred to non-resident companies if ownership remains national is real. This could lead to a weakening of the control of the emergency response system in the power sector, which in turn would weaken social security in this country. That was precisely the reason why the Ullring Committee made the strong recommendations that the fall-back institute had to be continued in such a way that today's public national ownership of power resources was not in the long run weakened because they are so important. Today, we are going to adopt a new law on relapses that ensures that this principle can continue over the next few years, thanks to the majority government. The biggest threat to this is that there will be a government shift after the next election. The Right Party and the Progressive Party are warning of a rematch on the repatriation scheme. If the Right Party and the Advance Party get a majority after the election and thus an opportunity to change the law, they will probably open up for private ownership of the hydropower. Then it helps little what the Left and Christian People's Party has meant here in the Chamber today. This matter is so important, yes, perhaps one of the most important issues raised by Stortinget in this period, because it has a perspective for several hundred years to come. If we allow for sale and privatisation, the values will be lost forever. Here we also see the clear political lines between the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre, which now ensure that the community's ownership of the hydropower, and the Right and Advance Party, which will facilitate privatisation and sales abroad. The representative, Tord Lien, from the Party of Progress, said in the Address Paper on 28 June 2007: ‘If after 75 years, everyone falls back from today, there is a solution I think the party can live with.’ So the party of progress wants billions of dollars, which is the most determined state to take over in a few years' time, to not be the state's future in the foreseeable future. Actually, this is a transfer of a very valuable right from the community to Norwegian and foreign shareholders who have no claim to retain these values beyond what the law says. But this is, of course, a progressive party policy - there is no doubt about it. This proposal will be a heavy gift from the community to selected companies, and will only be passed by the same party proposed, an incalculable number of billions in tax reliefs for Norwegian and foreign oil producers. Finally, I would also argue that the sale of hydropower to private individuals will also weaken the economy of our descendants. We also have a responsibility for that. The sale price now will not reflect the enormous value these resources could have for later generations. Then it won't be the nation and the communities that benefit from these values for hundreds of years, but private.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1412	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1415	I don't think it's particularly eye-catching that the right parties are now doing what they can to extend the private ownership of Norwegian power resources. Here they are well-assisted by Norwegian Industry, which is also not particularly concerned with the strongest possible social governance. However, it is also important in this area to establish that national resources belong to the community. On the other hand, it is not as easy to understand that the LO-organised in the powerful industry makes up with the bourgeois. The state ownership of power resources should, of course, be the guarantee to ensure long-term supply of power to industry, i.e. the guarantee of safe jobs in the future. But when the employees of this industry obviously don't feel that way, it's probably because the Swedish power company Vattenfall seems to be able to offer Norwegian industrial companies as favourable, not to say more favourable, terms than our own company Statkraft. And when the members of the Business Committee meet representatives of the powerful industry at times, unfortunately, we get the impression that many companies have a relatively hard relationship with State power. They feel that Statkraft has looked too closely at yield requirements and bottom line. Let me therefore remind you that the Government has also made it clear that the objective of State ownership in Statkraft is to ensure the state control of water resources and the natural environment, maintain and develop Norway as an industrial nation, and meet the industry’s need for stable and long-term power supplies. Knowing that State power is continuing to enter into long-term power supply agreements with industry, I still believe that it is necessary in today's situation to look at the mandate, tasks and practices of Government in this area, so that the powerful industry can continue to benefit in the future from the competitive advantage of abundant access to renewable energy. When Hydro on Karmøy or other powerful companies are going to assess their future plans, I believe that it is the availability of power at a reasonable price – not primarily the ownership of power – that is crucial. Yes, Hydro's behaviour in the fall-back debate is a matter for itself. I'm still surprised that a company in which the state together owns over 50 pst. the shares may continue to act as a political actor contrary to the interests of the principal owner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1426	It was wise politicians who introduced the concession laws at the beginning of the 1900s. These politicians secured the long-term public ownership of power resources and prevented them from coming under foreign control. The Central Party wants our eternal energy resources to be the property of the entire people. This is ensured by state, county and municipal ownership, and repatriation is an instrument for achieving the objective of public ownership. As you know, our government did not want to make changes to the repatriation scheme. It led to legal proceedings before the EFTA Court. The Government lost, but the EFTA Court stated in the preamble to the judgment that ‘public ownership may be an objective in itself’. The government therefore chooses to go out actively and ensure official control of hydropower resources through the consolidation model. These are powerful forces, including: companies such as Norsk Hydro and Elektem and the Norsk Industrie association, which are fighting this model. A leaping point has been whether the alternative model presented by the Norwegian Industry can be accepted. Among other things, there will be: the date of repatriation for all private individuals set at 2069, irrespective of the end date of the concession granted. The EFTA Surveillance Authority considers that no new concessions can be granted or that concessions to private parties can be extended if the purpose of public ownership is to be consistent. The centre lot therefore rejects the scheme proposed by the opposition lots. We don't want to jeopardize the community's resources. I want to repeat what Inge Ryan quoted from Fredrik Sejersted, where he says: ‘In any case, it could destroy the whole EEA legal model, because it would weaken the principle of consistent public ownership. Therefore, the proposals are rightly rejected by the Government and the majority of the Energy Committee.» It is essential to distinguish between the changes in the laws currently being promoted in order to ensure Community control of the falls and the solutions that ensure competitive conditions for industry. The public debate has been little influenced by this important difference. The centre party is proud that what was the main reason for the concession laws, to ensure official control of the eternal natural resources that the water drop is, is today ensured by the government's legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1446	The Christian People's Party's proposal for a solution to the fall-back is in many ways like a cheek egg. The solution extending the industry’s withdrawal period ensures national ownership in a robust manner. It provides good and predictable framework conditions for industry, and is, according to several legal considerations, within our EEA obligations. But we don't put, like the Government, similarities between public ownership and national ownership. On the contrary, our position is a good continuation of the line of the Christian People's Party historically. Insinuations of motives other than this I will have asked myself, President. We support the fall-back institute, and we propose today that it be continued. There have been many great words in the debate. At one time I wondered if the government parties and the councils were more concerned with 1909 than with 2009. I can see that, because in 2009 you will meet the voters, who have some rather powerful questions. I am surprised that the red-greens have shown no willingness to negotiate in this matter despite the pressures of an overall opposition, from the LO, from the NHO and from many industrial communities along the coast. The red-greens have failed their promise of reasonable power to the industry, and now they are choosing a solution to the fall-back system that could at least have contributed to meeting those promises. In my view, the Prime Minister should travel to the same industrial sites where the Workers' Party has sunk in line with its promises of cheap power in 2005 and explain why they are now choosing to jeopardize industrial workplaces. It was a huge political space, it was claimed. So now it's one year to the election, and the industrial workers can look far after the beautiful promises. It's becoming more and more obvious that they're not going to comply. So in the case of a home fall, you could actually contribute a little bit, but you don't dare. The Christian People's Party line is supported by LO, NHO and industry. Several legal environments have established that the solution is EEA-robust, and then it is incomprehensible that the government parties have been totally unwilling to negotiate these matters at all. Personally, I've been in contact with the Government several times to get into a dialogue, because I believe that the country is served by a broad majority in this type of matter, but I've only been met with overwhelming admonitions that I'm on wild roads. I can live with that. But this arrogance also affects the trade union movement, and it affects local communities, industrial leaders and legal expertise that support this solution. It's more serious. All attempts by these actors to have a real dialogue with the Government about this matter have failed. And I have to say that I react very strongly to the fact that representatives of the government parties in this Chamber today draw the integrity of the legal environments that have established that this solution is within the EEA Agreement, in doubt. I think you should have saved yourself. I would also say that there will be no positive development for the process industry in Karmøy or elsewhere after this decision, the responsibility is entirely with the red-greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1461	The use of the term ‘arrogance’ has been advocated by the President earlier in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1465	I believe that there is a corresponding concept in this context, and maintains its use.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1470	Although the debate on the fall-back case today is only about a small part of the total power generation, it is a big thing and, of course, one thing the owners of this production, the industry, are very concerned about. Besides, we're all. And it's not hard to understand that the owners of hydropower generation are engaged in disposing of this right for their own purpose almost forever. I understand that. It would probably also in many cases be made available to safeguard jobs and build well-being. But as I see it, it is a clear social obligation to ensure that the power-generating industry, which is now largely developing into the environmental industry, has access to the power it needs. I believe that hydropower should continue to be used as we have tradition of, for the further development of important industrial workplaces. It is good for the country, it is good for the welfare, and above all it is good for the global environment. When I support the Government's proposal, it is because I feel that we are not messing with this matter. It is within the framework of EU law. We're on a secure legal basis. I also believe that the proposal gives Hydro and Elkem good industrial opportunities. I would like to stress that is important to my view. And it's an arrangement we've had in this country from 1909, which is now being passed on. It's not immaterial either. It is not possible for me to attend this debate in Stortinget without recalling the dramatic situation we now have for the business community in Central Norway. The fact that the Stortinge gave green light to three major industrial projects in Sunnmøre without making sure that there is sufficient power for the rest of the country's economy is now perceived as very dramatic. There's a shortage of energy and a particularly high price. It has to be corrected. This is also linked to the forthcoming system of power for industry, which I understand is now working intensively to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1481	I had long believed that, in particular, the Workers' Party was of the opinion that Norwegian hydropower processed via Norwegian industry in Norwegian industrial sites gave as much back to Norwegian society as power channelled through Statkraft or other public institutions. But here we have to believe again. On this so-called historical date today, we have received a diametrical shift in Norwegian politics. When the Council of State Riis-Johansen asks the Right to stand upright for its position, I would say we do it. I have quoted our position several times, but I have almost begun to believe that it is possible to record what is being said. But we've written it in our program, and it's also in our notes. I'm asking the state council and others shaking their heads to find out where it says we're going to wind up the fall-back institute. There's no room. That is exactly the opposite of our programme. And of course we shall continue to do that. It's today's government parties that change a hundred-year-old Norwegian exercise of hydropower. It is they who are diametrically changing politics today and taking away from Norwegian industry the power that it has at its own and own disposal until the fall-back date. This is where we have the big shift. We must be clear about that in the debate that is going to take place at least in the recording of the forthcoming election campaign. We're 100 percent upright for what we're presenting today. What is surprising is the security of the government from government to the merits of the same government advisory service to advise the Government on how to deal with the EFTA Court and the ESA Institute. I think you'll stand by, if you want Norwegian industry well, to have a much less slippery security. But I notice that there is not one representative from the government parties - perhaps with Arne Haugen as a unanimous exception - who has expressed concern for the Norwegian industry. Everyone else has avoided taking the word worry about what will be the future of Norwegian industrial communities, in their mouths in today's debate. I think that's striking. Rather, one chooses to pattern in today's debate with the Local Governments' Central Association and LVK as a truth witness to a straight line. And then you're startled by saying that right or other opposition parties are intended to sell the power to the rest of the world. The fact is that today's decision opens up a far greater private ownership of power than we have today, and even greater possibility of renting out large parts of the Norwegian hydropower to those who pay the most, and we know that foreign forces are able to pay well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1496	It's approaching the end of the debate, and I have some small comments. It has been claimed from other quarters today that in a statement in the nation I said that I was enthusiastic about the model of postponing a relapse. And I've told the Newspaper Nations that I have a great sense of a model in which private owners get power plants to run for industry against being returned to the state after a certain number of years free of charge, for example 50 or 60 years. This was the old system of relapses. This was the scheme we had, a system for which the EEA Agreement has put a stop to, but which the Central Party was a burning adherent of, as burning as we opposed the EEA Agreement. Let there be no doubt: the centre party definitely believes that we are doing quite right to go for what the government is now proposing, and all of which are some of them are EEA-robust, rather than going into a model that is unsavory about being robust in relation to the EEA agreement. But then until what I think is most special in the debate, that the parties the Progress Party and the Right always use time to argue for the compromise proposal to a collective opposition, and they shade away from any debate about who is to control the natural resources. Røldal-Suldal is important. But it's going to be between 2 and 3 pst. of the accumulated water power resources under concession. The primary desire to privatize 97 pst. will be to have at least one talk about it. Yes, when we quote the Progress Party's program, then the representative Solvik-Olsen answers that now one has to stop adding the Progress Party point of view. All features of the Progress Part and the Right have focused on the 3 percentage points. No one has taken up and rigorously defended the program formulations of both parties that say that private ownership is an end in itself and even important. The representative Bent Höie today calls the decision a betrayal of the West. He's about it. Sogn and Fjordne counties have averaged over 20 million. SEK dividends from energy companies in the last few years. Twenty million. kr is approximately equivalent to the operation of 20 advanced school classes or the training of 600 elephants. I dare to speculate that private foreign owners might not have used their dividends to finance just that. Today we ensure that many people in this country will enjoy the benefits of our power resources even in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1509	There are several things that amaze me in this debate, and I'll mention a couple-three of them. The first is that the Right Party and the Advance Party do not dare take the debate, but try to conceal it. It surprises me that they're not clear that they want to liquidate repatriations, so we can get the debate on those premises, but try to tell us that they're actually for repatriation. The second is since the Right Party and the Christian Party have elected. We have heard today in the debate of several - and that is my impression too - that what is in the judgment of the EFTA Court is that we must have a law that is consistent and non-discriminatory. But then I would like to get quoted from proposal No. 3 from the opposition: «Where special considerations exist, the competent ministry may, on a case-by-case basis, derogate from the concession obligation, from the pre-emptive right and from the requirement of public ownership over waterfall.» It is at least not consistent, and with that kind of decision, it is also not a citizen's concern that there should be no discrimination. So you go against the judgment by adopting what's here. Then I have to say that the lack of perspective has surprised me. I feel that the representatives from Rogaland, in particular, are more concerned with the Hydro Karmøy industry than with this matter. There are miles of difference in the level of the two issues. Homelessness is about securing our most important natural resource for hundreds of years to come -- for hundreds of years to come, we're going to make sure of that. I also think it is important to save the jobs in Karmøy, but it says in a completely different division. Then I have a certain understanding that politicians like Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Gunnar Kvassheim and Bent Höie, who come from the county, have a commitment here. I understand. But I'm surprised when the party leader of the Christian People's Party, Dagfinn Højbrätten, has the focus. I had expected the party leader in the Christian People's Party to actually lift his eyes and see what a big deal this is about. I have spoken earlier today about the big politicians, those who get busts, and the ones that are pictured in the history books. I do not believe that the party leader of the Christian People's Party is in the category of 'big politicians' when history is to be written.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1527	I noticed in the comment that the representative Højbråten made about 2009 versus 1909. Of course, I agree that we, as politicians, must be overwhelmed and look at what it is right to do in view of the time that is coming. But if we believe that 1909 is getting a little bit small compared to the fact that in a year's time, I'm completely in disagreement. I believe that Norwegian policy needs more long-termity, needs more emphasis on raising our eyes. If our predecessors hadn't lifted their eyes 99 years ago, we wouldn't have had the solutions that we have today in terms of relapse. There is no doubt that some of the same issues were also raised in 1909 with regard to the more short-term gains it was possible to make in order to avoid conflict around a difficult theme, versus actually putting in place something that is thought to be right to have security in a longer perspective. Then there is a danger that I might come under the name arrogant, which was used in the same post from the representative Højbråten, and of course I regret that. My approach to this is, to the extent that we have not found a common solution: it is nothing but a conviction that going on a journey away from a consistent entrance to public ownership is so risky that it should not be done. That's the entry. So it was the representative of Kristiansen, who was concerned about the criticism the representative has got to not stand up for his own positions. That, I believe, is a criticism that is quite justified, following the submissions that have been kept from both the Right and the Advance Party today. I can only read the two sentences in the Right Magnificence Programme for 2005-2009: ‘Rights therefore believe that in order to ensure the dynamic development of the power industry, there is a need to modify the current fall-back institution. Private owners shall have as good a chance to own Norwegian hydropower resources as the public owner does.’;» Then there is a comment in the setting that is probably from the Advance Party and the Right, if I don't remember correctly, where it is also suggested that the private ownership should be increased from 33 pst. to 49 pst. It does so at the same time that of the four points raised by the EFTA Court of Justice, the sale of more than one third of public-owned water and power plants to private individuals is prohibited.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1541	Unfortunately, this debate has been marked by the desire of the government parties to add the Right and the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party and the Left also for that matter, the position we do not have, and then criticise us for not defending them ourselves. I think it's a very unfine debate technique, and it doesn't give much respect in such an important matter. I also note that Ryan's representative was obviously born a hundred years late, with his fascination for 1909. What is still the difference between 1909 and 2008, is that in 1909 there was a place for the industry in the solution that one came up to -- one has not done so now. I think it would be much more national and statesmanly if one said that not only was the goal of public ownership, but the goal was national value creation where one actually took the industry's potential into account and the benefits to the population. Then a man had something statesmanlike about himself. It doesn't have one when you just look at ownership separately. So the opposition has also been willing to go very far here. The Progress Party and the Right have made it clear that it is a good piece from our primary position to what we are actually proposing as a pragmatic solution, which we sincerely hope the government parties would reach out to. I think it's arrogant when this opposition proposal is rejected by jus, as we now got it from the Council of State, while the Council of State has twice deliberately refused to clarify or consult ESA on the content of the opposition proposal. Is it by ESA to consider as significantly different from what the Government itself has come with? I called ESA and asked if they would have made such an assessment. Yes, they said, if they had received an enquiry. They would not grant prior approval of any system, but they could give up an assessment of the systems. If we had received it, we would have liked to have avoided much of the debate about today, namely whether the law is in favour of or against the opposition's proposal. When the government doesn't want to, and then most of the argumentation uses on just the juze, it's arrogance it's all about. So I think it is special -- yes, very special -- to hear the representative Thorkildsen and the others from SV say that the Right was not tidy in his presentation of the primary and subsidiary position -- this from a representative who has made a career of opposing his own government, and who travels in the Northland and Troms and protests against the decision she herself has taken to adopt. The Progress Party and the Right have clearly said what our principle approach is, but we have also said that it is so important to put in place a system that ensures industry that we need a compromise that everyone can maintain. I have defended in many of my articles why we believe it is important that private people are allowed to own hydropower plants. It is precisely because it is important for industry, and precisely because the concession rules and charging rules can safeguard the interests that everyone has here. I think it's quite special when a debate like this has so many red-green representatives up there who take the floor without recognizing what is actually the motives and desires of the opposition parties, but just attach to us a number of claims and a number of attitudes that we don't represent at all. But leave it as their perception.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1556	I have noticed that in the course of today's debate, Inge Ryan has taken out the frailties of a context and on that basis concluded with what parties mean, and what representatives stand for. He used that technique when he tried to draw a picture of the fact that the Left wants to weaken the relapse regime, when the actual ratio is the opposite, that we are voting for a model today that would strengthen the relapse regime in relation to today's situation. Inge Ryan has also made it a big issue that representatives from Rogaland seem to be starting from a single enterprise when they justify their policy. He mentions me in that list. In my main post, I did not mention a single company, but I put great emphasis on the role played by the fall-back scheme in Norway, and great emphasis on the importance that the Left believes the fall-back scheme has in the years to come. In a reply, I confirmed that one can fear that the government's policy will have a negative impact on individual companies. But it's wrong when Inge Ryan in the way he recently did, described my commitment to being attached to one enterprise. So Erling Sande has put great emphasis on the government's model of securing public revenue, that is, dividends, through power companies. It is a fact that the opposition's model ensures just as much public ownership and the same amount of money for municipal crates and county crates in the foreseeable future. Several from the positioning parties have said that they find it a pity that the opposition's model cannot be legal. What they're saying, undermines the second thing in the position says, that that model doesn't guarantee public ownership, and basically add up to privatisation. It boils down to whether this is legally valid or not. So it's not like that if you had tested it out and the answer was no, then Ragnarok was loose, and you had to go back to full privatisation, or you didn't have anything like a fixed starting point. The scheme of the government was in case at the bottom and could have been used. But in this situation, where we talk about a historic day and a historically important matter, the people of the government parties have failed to create an historic compromise that had dressed this matter very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1567	The government parties accuse us and me that we should have criticized them for not thinking far enough. That's not right. But we've been criticizing the red-green because they so much think back a hundred years instead of putting the emphasis on thinking forward sixty years, as our proposal emphasizes. We accept our historical responsibility for the fall-back, and we want to go on with it. We have repeatedly stretched out an open hand to the government parties in order to cooperate on a robust solution that could prevent discussions about rematching around this important topic. Unfortunately, we've only met with rejection. It's a fact. I registered that the Council of State did not reserve itself against such a production. As for the storytelling and who goes out of history as big and small men in this room, neither Inge Ryan nor I are going to write that story. We can both, I think, be happy for that. We have to manage the responsibilities we now have, based on the framework conditions we now have, and try to find the best solutions. I just have to say that this debate has been marked by a convenient majority who can carry out what they want, but which goes to such a sharp attack on trade unions outside this Chamber, on people in this Chamber, on parties in this Chamber and on the model we have presented, that I am starting to wonder whether they are really at the bottom of their own issue. It comes in 2009, because it's not necessarily what you said to the voters before you entered this hall, and how you meet the voters at the next crossroads. It is a fact that the red-greens traveled around all the industrial sites that have been mentioned in the debate here today, and promised cheap power to the industry. I think you actually got a lot of votes on it as well. The voters should be looked in the eye and told that this crossroads had the chance to obtain a broad majority of a solution that industry also saw fit to serve, which could trigger positive investment decisions in industry, but was denied the opposition's offer of such a broad settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1574	As rapporteur, I expect to have a little more than 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1579	No, the representative has three minutes. However, he can draw himself to several articles.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1583	Well, then I'll do it immediately. I'll try a little short summary over the first three minutes. Today we legislate a ownership. It is a considerable majority in favour of this. There's no doubt about it. Let's look at the four points that the great majority are agreed on in this room today. It's: ‘a) New acquisition concessions may not be granted to any other than public operators. (b) The acquisition of waste water and power plants is limited to public operators. c) Access to resale/lease after the occurrence of a fall-back operation ceases. d) Sale of more than 1/3 of public-owned water and power plants for private use is prohibited.’;» I don't think that's so bad anyway, when we discuss such an important matter. But then there's something that's surprised me, and that I'm a little abandoned over, which we tend to say westward. It's that the Progress Party goes to a frontal attack and calls the position here today arrogant and gives us opinions that we don't have. When I have taken a line after a line on the Advance Party and quoted from program formulations where it says about sales, privatisation, etc., it is arrogant! Had I been to the Advancement Party -- which I'm never going to be, of course -- I would have said that it's great that others are also reading our program. In Document No: 8:98 for 2001-2002 - I can't read everything, because I only have 3 minutes in the first round - it says in the heading that «the works are sold to a maximum tenderer after the end of the concession period». The next quote is about the rationale: ‘It is therefore proposed that all be given an equal concession period of 60 years, which the private power plants currently have, and then that they return to the State, with an auction in the market where all, both private and public, are made equal to the city. The revenue from the sale is due to the State Treasury.’ This is the policy of the Progress Party, and when I bring it forward, I'm called arrogant, and someone says I don't want to listen to other people. That's weird! This is the truth, and that's why I've also said to the Left and Christian People's Party -- I noticed that in the change of lines today, it was only one who took a line, and it was to Kristiansen -- that they had even more engaged in the case of the fall back when the second largest party in the Norwegian giant sees such ownership as they do here, I would have expected that they had stood upright on it too.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1620	The representative of Solvik-Olsen takes up what the representative has previously mentioned about consulting ESA. I would like to comment on it once more also for my own part: ESA does not have any fascination in this matter. ESA brought an action before the EFTA Court the last time this case was brought. However, in a new situation where, where appropriate, a law, in Norway is not in line with the judgment of the EFTA Court, more than ESA may be an actor, indirectly or directly. So ESA is not an oracle. ESA has no fasitant response to this. It is the judgment of the EFTA Court that we have to deal with. It is the judgment of the EFTA Court that we have to interpret and ensure that in Norway we have a patent law and legislation in relation to it. So the representative of Solvik-Olsen said that the industrial perspective is gone. It's repeated many times in the hall today. I've been just as amazed every time. To give Norwegian industry the opportunity to sell power plants that would initially fall back to the state, to new companies to which they themselves can become partners, and where the form of settlement can well be long-term power contracts, is not to take into account the industry and arrangements that could have been made in a completely different way, is incomprehensible to me. In the posts of the representative Kvassheim there was also a claim that I had to comment on. The representative of Kvassheim said that through his proposal, the Left is committed to strengthening the repatriation system. How it is possible to strengthen a fall-back scheme by postponing the fall-back for almost 50 years, I think it is completely incomprehensible. I expect that the representative Kvassheim might support what he means by strengthening the fall-back system by pushing the fall-back so far in time. Finally, to the representative, Højbräten, who commented a little on what I said instead. He reiterated that the Christian People's Party wanted a broad majority for a more robust solution purely political, i.e. a wider majority. That's good. That's good. Of course, it would have been brilliant if a unanimous collapse today had been behind a common landing in the fall-back case. The thing is big enough for it. The problem from my point of view is that the Christian People's Party proposal is not robust. We would like to talk about a wish for a robust landing. It does not help to get a majority in a total increase if my and others' assessment - from my point of view - was to be that the decision to raise the issue was a solution that was not robust. We cannot say that the proposal is robust because everyone agrees on it if we have new problems relating to the EFTA Court in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1631	Inge Ryan has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1634	Several have mentioned the 2009 elections, and it is approaching stormstorms. I think many of us are going to go around in the 2009 election campaign and see people in their eyes both in one case and another. There must be no doubt that the SV and the Government want to do what we can to create favourable industrial agreements and industrial contracts for business. There must be no doubt about it. But it's not that we're willing to give up relapses to get to it. The representative Dagfinn Højbrätten said we had to travel around and see people in their eyes. When it comes to relapses, we're not just going to see people in their eyes. Relapse is going to last so much longer than seeing people in their eyes. It shall apply for hundreds of years. That's why I say I'm disappointed that you don't have a bigger perspective on a case as big as relapse. And as the Council of State was about in its last post: the proposal of the Christian People's Party, on which the Left is involved, and on which they invited us to join, is not robust. As the Højbråten sail said: It's like a kids' egg; it breaks very easily.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1641	Ketil Solvik-Olsen has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1644	I find the state council posts rather suspicious, because ESA is the prosecution here, if you can use such a word. That is precisely why it is good to know that the prosecution authority considers what is happening, as fine, so that they do not take out a new charge. As far as I understand, the government itself has boasted that they have consulted ESA along the way to ensure that their options are robust. Why is it okay that the Government consults, but that it is wrong when the opposition asks for such a consultation to ensure its proposal? If we had got ESA to say that the different models are considered equivalent, we would have avoided much of this pointless debate, which has just come because I think the government is arrogant when they don't want to take over the wishes of the opposition. In the case of the representative Nordtun and the citation of batch programmes, there have been many direct misquotes. We can take that to the chamber afterwards. What's missing when Nordtun quotes is that he doesn't see the whole thing. When you take one sentence and not everything about industrial policy, that national ownership is important in a business sector, and energy is mentioned as one of them, it is wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1651	Tord Lien has spoken once earlier and has up to 3 minutes speaking time, but he is not obliged to speak for 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1654	Thank you for that, President! I expect that was a request. I'll deal with it as best I can. I feel in a way that the speeches that came from the Council of State and from Tore Nordtun now at the end were not the most suitable ones to sum up the debate. They might have been more suitable to extend it. The Council of State brings into the debate that part of the form of settlement for the sale of private power-producing units to public owners may be long-term power contracts. I think that's right. Former State Council, Åslaug Haga, also shared the view that the long - term power contracts had to be sold to the same industry that previously owned them, on a market price basis. It is clearly ESA and EEA robust. But the Council of State believes that, as part of such a settlement, power can be sold at a lower price than the market price, that is news. If it was checked out with ESA and is so-called EEA Robust, it would have been interesting to hear something about it. In the case of Tore Nordtun and talk about arrogance, it is obvious that both my own party and Right have a different principleal approach to ownership of Norwegian hydropower. Therefore, it should be a gift package for the Workers' Party and the Center Party when, after dialogue with the Christian People's Party and the Left, the Progress Party and the Right extend a hand to the government parties in order to achieve a broad national compromise. That compromise has been rejected by Nordtun and the Labour Party. It will make it quite clear that the debate on the fall-back institution is probably not too good.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1665	The chairman of the Committee, Gunnar Kvassheim, has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1668	The council asked me to explain how the left's model could lead to a strengthening of the fall-back regime. He cannot understand that this is the case. We have understood that, and it has been in the way of finding a broad solution in this matter. The explanation is that the Left is in favour of the grips proposed by the Government, which are tightening up today's system. They are listed in the configuration and are a heavy, important point, to which the case rapporteur also referred. All of these points of tightening up, we're going to go in for it. But in the case of the 6 pst. by the force of the fall-back regime, we are in favour of a deferred fall-back for part of this, so that it is the same time. In total, there will be a strengthening of the repatriation scheme. That's what we've invited to cooperate on, which could be a collapsing, good solution that would last a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1673	As the rapporteur for the matter, the representative, Tore Nordtun, has a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1677	I'll be far more smiling in my post now. I just want to say something about what Ivar Kristiansen said in his post. Among other things, he said: that there is much greater public ownership today. That's not right. Public ownership is one-third -- it's been, and it's going to be that way in the future. So the majority of the Storing today, which is a solid majority at this point, agrees that it has been, and that is what it should be. Here it applies to legal and political matters. As far as the law is concerned, it's clear that here we can't take the chance that if we do things like this and things with prolonged relapses, it's going to be perceived as a pre-allocation of someone -- a privatisation. This is contrary to the EFTA judgment, and we cannot support it. We wouldn't risk the fall-back institute. The hydropower belongs to us all in common, for the common good. We can live with this in the future too, and we are proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1684	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 768]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1692	The odelsting shall vote on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e1700	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3 from Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposals No. 4 and 5 by Mr Solvik-Olsen, on behalf of the Group of the European Progressive Democrats and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 6 from Ivar Kristiansen on behalf of the Right and Left
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e2036	It shall vote first on paragraph 1, first and second paragraphs. There is an alternative proposal from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's The proposal reads as follows: «In Law 14 December 1917 No. 16 on the acquisition of water, mining and other real estate Paragraph 1 of the first subparagraph shall be replaced by the following: Without the permission of the King, no one other than the State having full legal effect may acquire title or the right to use water which, by regulation, is presumed to be capable of being supplied to more than 10,000 natural horsepower, either alone or in connection with other waterfalls which the transferee owns or uses when the cases can be appropriately developed as a whole. [[Concession]] [[fall or strike]] The concession obligation also applies to agreements for the acquisition of long-term availability of hydropower resources.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e2056	It is then voted on Section 1, third and fourth paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e2065	Section 1 fifth paragraph contains an alternative proposal from the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: «In Law 14 December 1917 No. 16 on the acquisition of water, mining and other real estate the fifth paragraph of Section 1 shall be replaced by the following: where special considerations exist, the competent department may, on a case-by-case basis, derogate from the concession obligation, from the right to purchase and from the requirement of public ownership over waterfall.»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e2083	It shall be voted over the sixth and seventh paragraphs of Section 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e2092	Paragraph 2, first paragraph, contains an alternative proposal from the Progress Party and the Right, proposal No. 5th@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: «In Law 14 December 1917 No. 16 on the acquisition of water, mining and other real estate Paragraph 2 of the first subparagraph shall be replaced by the following: Undertakings organised by law on state enterprises, Norwegian municipalities and county municipalities may obtain a concession to acquire ownership of water under the conditions laid down by the King. Concession may also be granted to particular companies, undertakings, teams or associations which are directly or indirectly owned by a State undertaking or by one or more municipalities or counties in such a way that the State undertaking, local authority or county council, alone or jointly, directly or indirectly, holds at least half of the capital and the votes and organisations are such that they are clearly publicly owned.»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e2111	It is then voted on Section 2, second paragraph, even new Section 39.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e2120	We've come to Section 41. There is an alternative proposal from the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: «In Law 14 December 1917 No. 16 on the acquisition of water, mining and other real estate Paragraph 41 shall be replaced by the following: Time-limited concessions for the acquisition of ownership of waterfalls granted to private persons under this Act shall apply until 1 January 2069. At the end of the concession period, Section 2, third paragraph, item 17 shall apply mutatis mutandis.»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e2138	It is then votered over II § 10 nr. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e2148	We have come to Section 10 No. 2nd@item: inlistbox There is an alternative proposal from the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: «The Act of 14 December 1917 on watercourse regulations is amended as follows: New Section 10 paragraph. 2 to replace the current provision as i ht. Ot. pp. No 61 has been proposed: time-limited concessions for watercourse regulations granted to private persons under this Act will apply until 1 January 2069, if the regulations are used in relation to waterfalls covered by acquisition concession as at hht. [[2007-2008]] Paragraph 41, first paragraph, of the Law of 14 December 1917 No. 16 on the acquisition of waterfalls, etc. until 1 January 2069. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e2167	The vote will then be taken on Paragraph 10(3). 3 to § 20a, first paragraph and III.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e2177	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e2189	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22-lower.ana.ud540e2558	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
