ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e40	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 65 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes and Socialist Left Party, Christian People's Party, Center Party and Left 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a succession of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers for each group and up to five lines with replies from the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e51	Odelsting is currently dealing with various minor changes in tax legislation. Inner. O. No 46 is an aggregate proposition over many, but less diverse, tax matters. The vast majority of these cases agree with the Committee, since they concern changes of a more technical nature, simplifications or proposals which are not controversial. These are adopted unanimously. But in some cases, there is disagreement. I concentrate in this article on explaining the views of the government parties in those matters where there is no unanimity. For property taxes on the land of Finnmark property: From 2007 onwards it is possible to print property taxes throughout the municipality. This has led to questions relating to the large areas with undeveloped land in Finland. This belongs to the Finnmark property. Government lots will be exempt from property tax for this type of property belonging to the Finnmark property, because Finnmark property is specifically designed to manage these areas. It shall take into account Sami culture, such as: suggests that Finnmark’s property cannot exploit its land in the same way as other landowners. The domestic operations of the group, which are free of charge, are also specific to this area. In addition, Finnmark residents have statutory rights to hunting, fishing and multing. All of this gives limits to ownership. Therefore, the undeveloped parts of the Finnmark range should be exempt from property tax. For rent taxes on electricity plants: In the fiscal framework for the financial year 2008, the majority of the gross domestic product accounted for a general reduction in the lower limit for the calculation of the basic interest income of all power plants, from 5 500 kVA to 1500 kVA. The reasons for this stand at hand. The NVE has estimated the potential for the expansion of small-scale power plants and the upgrading of existing plants to nearly 40 TWh. It's about 1/3 of the capacity that's already expanded. Both the current power balance and environmental considerations indicate that it is important that this potential is exploited. Under the rules in force, power plants of 5500 kVA and over pay rent taxes. This limit was raised from 1500 kVA as of the financial year 2004. In retrospect, the rise in the border has led to adaptations by building power stations with lower capacity than is socially desirable. This problem does not disappear when the limit is lowered to 1500 kVA, but the consequences in terms of lower power generation than is optimal are likely to be less than the current limit. Some builders had already started the process of developing power plants, some of which would become rent taxable under the new rules. Predictability in framework conditions is an important consideration. Therefore, the government parties are in favour of the continuation of the 5500 kVA limit for older power plants, i.e. power plants which have applied for a concession before 5 October 2007. The agreed limit of 1500 kVA for new power plants is maintained. Government parties believe that it is very important to stimulate the expansion and production of environmentally friendly energy. In the last fall of the budget, we asked the Government to provide a broad assessment of the incentives for increased environmentally friendly hydropower and other renewable energy in the revised national budget for 2008. The presentation of the revised budget is imminent, and there will be a broad review of the framework conditions for renewable energy. On changes in reporting by foreign contractors and employees: One of the legislative proposals we are discussing today is changes to the rules on reporting to foreign contractors and employees. The proposal continues the main features of current rules and ensures that the tax rate is provided with important information on foreign taxpayers coming to Norway. The aim is to make rules simpler and more accurate. In a few years, Norway has had a large increase in the number of foreign workers, and it is in place for simplification. Economic operators and public bodies entrusted with any task shall, on the basis of the proposal, provide the tax administration with information on the mission and all sub-tasks carried out by contractors residing abroad. The contractor shall provide information on the staff involved in the mission. The reporting obligation shall not apply where the assignment is carried out at a place which the contracting entity does not control. However, this derogation does not cover the construction industry and tasks on the continental shelf. Experience has shown that there is a relatively high amount of tax evasion in the construction industry. In addition, this is an industry with a lot of foreign labour. This is an industry where it is important to continue to focus on the use of undeclared work. The Government proposes that contracting entities be liable for the tax obligations of the contracting entities if the contracting entities intentionally or grossly negligently breach the reporting obligation. This rule replaces a liability provision that has been used little in practice. For the shipowner's assessment: One of the most controversial tax issues in the 2008 budget was a new shipping tax regime. New and lower shipping taxes were adopted and a transitional regime was adopted from the old tax regime of the shipping industry. The rebate adopted transitional rules whereby, for tax credits processed, a settlement must be made whereby two thirds of the estimated gain is to be taken into account for income over 10 years, while an estimated tax amount relating to the remaining third can be allocated to the company's fund for environmental action. In Ot.prp. No 31, that is to say, this motion for a resolution that we are now dealing with, specifies the wording of the transitional rules for the conversion of the shipping tax system. The background to this is to ensure that the formulation of the rules on funds for environmental measures, etc. shall not prevent the classification of environmental funds as equity. So this is just a technical correction, with no material tax significance. The parties to the government have always wanted to establish rules to enable part of the tax credits to be shown as equity. At the same time, we had to fulfil the main objective of the environmental fund scheme, namely to contribute to the reduction of major environmental problems related to shipping. In the case of accounting, there are different opinions. This is also a complex problem. Equity management may take place in a number of ways, and it may differ between companies due to different plans, different risk profiles, etc. In addition, the Storting cannot override international audit practices. Finally, this will be up to each auditor in dialogue with the company with which he or she carries out an audit. The basic position of the parties to the government on this issue has always been to take account of two factors: compliance with environmental requirements, and a third being able to be accounted for as equity rather than as liabilities. Questions have been raised about this from the audit community. In discussions with the Minister of Finance, I was informed that the Ministry of Finance has decided to ask two of Norway's top experts in the field of a written question on this issue. This will contribute to the necessary clarification of these issues. The world is threatened by excessive climate change due to excessive emissions of CO2 in the atmosphere. Shipping represents significant emissions, and unfortunately these emissions are beyond the international environmental agreements we have so far. In addition, ships emit significant quantities of NOx. This contributes to acidifying the watercourses, which also poses a significant environmental problem. Shipwrecks can cause major local environmental problems if oil leaks out. There should therefore be no doubt that the environmental potential of the shipping industry is high. This also recognises the industry, which promises well. But they live in an international competitive situation, and making expensive investments can be challenging. Nevertheless, it will force itself sooner or later through new international agreements. This is why most people believe that the earlier they make environmentally friendly investments, the better. In the long term, it is likely to be a competitive advantage. Environmental policy is important. Against this background, it is therefore not possible for government parties to respond to the industry’s wish that the money could be used more widely for the new construction of ships. Such arrangements are designed to allow companies to use the Fund for the additional costs of building particularly environmentally friendly ships. However, the shipowners wish to deduct more than this. However, the environmental impact will be reduced if the environmental fund can be used to finance the construction of new ships without any environmental impact being demonstrated. It's like saying that all parts of a new car - from flashlights, via the engine to bodywork - per. definition is more environmentally friendly than on an old car. This is not the case, although the engine emits less harmful substances. Similarly, there is a mistake about everything on a new ship per. definition is environmentally friendly. Therefore, government parties have not opted for a passive template, but instead had the aim of ensuring that the amounts exempted from tax by the shipping industry go to real environmental measures. This has happened through what I would call broad and liberal regulations. If we had gone even further, there would be no environmental requirements again. In my opinion, account has been taken of the environment and the company's need for equity in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e108	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e111	During the debate on the maritime strategy held on 7 February this year, the Minister for Industry stated the following on the regulations governing this environmental component: ‘But the answer to the reality of the 21 billion question is that one third of them can be invested in environmental measures and that the third can be accounted for as equity. ‘... Does the case-speaker now say that the Minister of Industry has taken a little too fully into this matter, and that what the Minister of Industry said earlier this year will not be followed up anyway?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e121	The wording of Minister of Industry Dag Terje Andersen expresses exactly the same basic attitude to this question as that of me and the rest of the red-green parties here on the Stortinget, namely that the following two considerations should be taken into account: one third of the tax credits should be held as equity if they are used for environmental measures, and demands must be made for these funds to go to environmental investments and not to general investments. So the interpretation Gjermund Hagesetter has is not correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e126	In his statement, the representative Aasen Agdestein says that it is up to the individual auditor whether or not the environmental component can be listed as equity. But it is not, because in a letter to the Committee, the Association of Auditors has been quite clear that you cannot. The accounts of the various shipping companies show that you owe this -- not to a large extent, but all the way, because the accountant says you have to do it. The representative of Aasen Agdestein sees it as a problem that the end result of the transitional rules, for example: The clarification here today, as well as the regulations that are, is that the political promises - promised by a great many - that this could be carried out as equity, cannot be fulfilled?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e133	I do not agree with the description of reality. When the representative Fleet talks about the final result, I am a little uncertain about what he puts in that term. I want to use an example. In its annual report, the gas group BW states that around one third of its total tax credits have been classified as equity, i.e. approximately the size of the Environment Fund. This is an example of the fact that the representative who claims the Fleet does not vote entirely. It is correct, as it was said, that there have been raised doubts in the auditor's environment about how to conduct this audit. But in order to clarify this, the Ministry of Finance has asked for an independent expert investigation, which I believe will dampen the discussion, and which will stress that in terms of the final result to which the fleet representative referred, one still has a way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e140	When referring to the changes now being made by the majority in respect of rent taxes on power plants, the rapporteur referred to the need for predictable framework conditions. For some reason, the same words, i.e. ‘foreseeable framework conditions’, were not mentioned when the case-rapporteur came to the shipping tax and the transitional rules, and I understand that. My question is based on the observation made by the majority regarding the transitional rules for the new shipping tax system. It states that ‘transitional rules will not in themselves prevent all or part of funds for environmental measures, etc.. may be classified as equity. ’ In the case of the words "not by itself" what does it represent? Is there anything else that could prevent such classification?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e147	As I said in my post, the International Rules of Account and how they are interpreted do not have the Storting. Therefore, we cannot impose on the international auditor community how international companies should be audited. There's one example in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e152	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e156	As the case spokesman had in mind, there are many tax changes in this setting. Most of these tax changes are unproblematic, and several of them are the creation of errors that the Government has made in the past. Of course, it's great that the government is correcting some of the failures that a person has made, but it seems to me that one should have done more and corrected even more. The Government proposes, among other things, that: mandatory exemption from property tax for undeveloped parts of the land of Finnmark ownership. The reason for this is the change that came into force on 1 January 2007 that municipalities can choose to print taxes on their property in the municipality as a whole. on all commercial properties, residential and recreational buildings and uninhabited land. So now the government is proposing that this should not apply to undeveloped parts of the Finnmark property. The basic principles used here include: that there are low means of income - the case spokesperson also argued that this was a property that could not be fully exploited, as other property courts did, and that it was therefore unreasonable to impose property taxes. I want to say that when it involves the exploitation of the means of income on a property, it should be reflected in the fare, so that argument I don't think is very good. The Ministry also points out that the land of Finnmark ownership has a special role and can to some extent be compared with the existing exemption in the tax on property, Section 5, where some property, which serves as a ‘useful purpose’, is subject to a mandatory exemption from property tax. The progress party did not think this argument was particularly good either. In our opinion, this is a description that fits a lot of property in the whole country, inhabited and uninhabited, which, after the Government's extension of the property tax base, has received property tax. So the government admits by the bill that the extension was untimely, and this is another argument that the tax on property should be lifted in its wholeness, which is also proposed by the Progress Party in this setting. Another proposal mentioned is a change of the lower limit on the determination of the basic interest income in hydroelectric power plants. The background for this change is, of course, that there was a general delay in the lower limit for the determination of the basic interest income from hydroelectric power plants with generators with a single labeling from 5500 kVA to 1500 kVA. The government has now, after a renewed assessment, found that the framework for already developed and planned small-scale power plants should still be fixed. That's good, of course. What is not good is that the improvements do not apply to any future expansions of small-scale power plants. This will mean that many new environmentally friendly small power plants will not be realised. It's boring, and it's unfortunate -- both in relation to the power balance between Norway and the rest of the world, in relation to the environment, if one is busy with it, and in relation to the district construction. Of course, the party of progress is pleased with the fact that the government and government parties have led in this matter, but believe that this change should include all small power plants, both existing, planned and not planned. Something else is completely illogical. That is why we propose, together with the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, that the change should also include non-planned small-scale power plants. The last thing I want to mention here is the clarification of the wording of the transitional rules of the new fleet tax system. What this matter is about is the environmental part of the unconstitutional tax consolidation that the Government has implemented in relation to réaarlag is to be defined as equity. The Minister of Economic Affairs has been a guarantor and has repeatedly assured the industry that the Environment Fund will be able to stand as its own capital in fleets. When he presented the maritime strategy on October 3rd, he also benefited from the need to overestimate the impact. Since then he has guaranteed equity management both at the yard conference in Ålesund on 6 November last year and at the Haugesund conference on 5 February. Two days later, in the debate on the maritime strategy, he pointed out that the Ministry of Finance formally designed the regulations, but that ‘The answer to the question of the 21 billion question is that one third of them may be invested in environmental measures and that the third may be held as equity’. Yes, he just said: the third to be used for environmental measures is to be given the right to own funds. He also assures the Assembly that the Minister of Finance himself has emphasized this all the time. It's a shame, of course, that one now goes away from these promises, which are perfectly clear and clearly given. It must be possible to rely on the Minister of Industry's words when he clearly repeats and confirms the political decision and assures the Assembly that laws and regulations will, of course, be adapted by the experts who design them. The precision of the transition rules in Innst. O. No 46 for 2007-2008 is the topic of debate today. In the setting, the ruling party, also repeated by the case-speaker, makes a point that the creation of the wording of the transitional rules will ensure that the transitional rules themselves will not prevent the environmental component from leading as equity. That's probably right. It is in the Minister of Finance's submission, simply the regulations, that it fails. The final regulations were clear late in the afternoon on Friday 14 March. The audit environment was quickly clear in its assessments of the regulation: the way the regulation is designed, the environmental component cannot stand as equity. Thus, in order to obtain recognition of accounting records, ship layers must transfer the environmental component to the liability side of the balance sheet. A central element in the so-called balanced solution is therefore not in place. The maritime industry is one of Norway's most important industries and a bet area for this government. It is a crossroads of Norwegian industry that the government does not agree with the industries that have been specifically selected as a bet area, according to its promise. Stable framework conditions are central to an industry as global and mobile as the maritime. It is difficult to operate shipping operations in Norway when what was promised was the latest in February, is no longer the current policy in March. Finally, I would like to put forward the proposal in the position behind the Progress Party, and the ones that we are together with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e197	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has taken up the suggestions he made. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e202	We've been concerned that the shipping companies should be able to run one third of the total tax credits as equity. We believe that this has been well arranged. Even if the entire Environmental Fund were to be shown as a liability, discounting tax credits would lead to about a third being held as equity. We see that some shipping companies have actually done this in their annual reports. For example, the BW Gas Group, as I mentioned earlier in a line change, has classified about a third of its total tax credits as equity. This has been approved by the auditor. The opposition parties write in their joint note that ‘100 pst. of the accumulated tax credits must be shown as liabilities in the balance sheets of the companies ». Does the representative acknowledge that this comment is incorrect? Can the representative Hagesetter explain how such a false claim ends in the opposition's comments?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e209	I stick to the comments that come from the Auditor's Association, and I thought the government party should be a little soft in this matter. There is no doubt that the Minister of Industry and others representing the Government Party and Government have been very high and dark in this matter, and have promised that this entire third should be able to lead as a capital. So that's not the case. Of course, if there is someone who gets this environmental asset as their own, it's very good and positive. But the signals that have come from the accountancy industry indicate that this will apply to very few, and then we hope that there will still be someone who will recognise this as equity.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e214	In a parliamentary system, it is important to have confidence in governments and colleagues. The representative Hageseter had an post that was soaked in by distrust in relation to what was presented here. Does the representative of the Progress Party believe that it is possible to write off this as equity, or does the Progress Party do not trust the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Industry or the case-rapporteur in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e221	There is now conflicting information when it relates to equity, whether or not the environmental bit can be run as equity. What has been said until today is that one third should be able to take the lead as equity. So the case spokesperson came here today and said that this is not the case anyway, and debts on international accounting regulations. So there's no remainder that's been taken before. On the contrary, one has given a clear and clear impression that this should be possible as a capital. I'm sorry about that. I think it's a pity that a person is weakening such an important nourishment. I also thought it was a pity that such an important nourishment for Norway was carried behind the light and almost kept for fools.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e226	Rolf Terje Klungland also gets the last line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e229	Thank you for that. That's not what I asked Hagesetter about. I asked if Hageseter and the Progress Party had confidence in the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Economic Affairs and the President-in-Office in this matter - not what others wrote, but what the Progress Party believes. Does the Progress Party have confidence in the Minister for Finance, the Minister for Industry and the President-in-Office when they say that it should be possible to write a third of environmental investments? Or do they not trust?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e236	I now have confidence that what has been said in this case, that one third should be able to lead as a share capital, will be followed up. But now there's other information from the case manager, where one refers to international accounting regulations. When there is conflicting information, my confidence begins that this will be followed up, of course to fail. When it comes to the government behind the three sides of the Labour Party, SV and the Central Party, the Progress Party has not given any statement of trust, cork to the Government or to the Minister of Finance. We will follow this case further and see if what has been clearly stated also from the Stockholm Chair will be followed up. But what the case spokesman says here doesn't mean much about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e243	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e246	The rapporteur has taken a thorough look at the views of the government parties in this matter, and I will make some comments on our comments and suggestions. It was both expected and announced that the internal disagreement in the government parties would lead to an improvement in the tightening of the base rate tax on small-scale power plants implemented in the budget last autumn. However, I note that the Senterpartiet won the battle for rematch, but lost the fight itself, because it is now just new power plants that are going to have this tax. It is, to a large extent, a strange reasoning at a time when, in particular, the development of new renewable energy should be stimulated, while, of course, this is an important activity in rural agriculture. So, as in the budget, we are going against the increase. It is positive that the Government proposes facilitations in the reporting rules for foreign contractors. They have been little practical, and there has been a great need for this for quite a long time. Labour needs are still excruciating in many industries. Many enterprises need to solve the problems of foreign labour, and it is reflected in the fact that many of the large business organisations asked for further relief in order to make everyday life easier for Norwegian business. This is not least the case in construction, which is also subject to more stringent reporting obligations than others in this proposition by also having to report when the work is carried out in a place ‘over which the employer does not have control’. This reporting is very labour-intensive and, of course, leads to increased costs for builders, which in many cases are the public. We fully agree with the Government that tax evasion is important, but we believe that the rules could be better balanced given that there are also other possibilities for control, through ordinary tax control and controls from the Labour Inspectorate. The definition of what a contractor is is also unclear in the business world, and the ceiling of exemption from the obligation of assignment, now set at 10,000, could have been considered to be higher. Developments in this area are fast. The needs are changing rapidly, and so far we have only a brief experience with large-scale foreign contractors. The matter area is very complex and complex, and we have therefore not proposed changes on our part in addition to that of the Government. For that, more investigations are needed. However, we believe that there will be a need for regular reviews of this legislation in order for it to work optimally in view of the needs of businesses for labour and the need for authorities to control. So a few words about what I thought was the last chapter on the shipping tax, but as I've understood maybe it's not, after an article by the representative of Aasen Agdestein today. I'll come back to it. The transitional rules of the shipping tax apply. It is true, as stated in the proposition, that the transitional rules themselves do not prevent such equity. However, the design of the regulations prevents equity, so it is the sum of regulatory regulations and regulations that prevent this from being accounted for as equity. This means a higher degree of indebtedness for enterprises, hence higher borrowing costs and lower credit ratings by having to pay higher interest rates. This is governed by the accounting rules and regulations. The audit environments have stated, both in the practical way they do in the companies, and in letters sent by the Auditor's Association to the Committee, that the fund reserve - now I am talking about the Environment Fund - must be accounted for as a liability and not as equity. We are on the one hand in a situation where the facts are that this is not accounted for as equity under the overall regulatory framework. At the same time, on the other hand, we have a situation in which the political promises about how the environmental fund component was to be managed have been crystal clear all along. It is enough to refer to the statements of the Minister of Industry and the Minister of Finance from the day of the proposal, until the subsequent meetings they have had with the industry, and in particular to Minister of Industry Dag Terje Andersen's meeting with the Stortinget by 7 February at the latest, when he said: ‘The political decision is that it should be possible to hold equity and, of course, the laws and regulations should be adapted by the professionals who design it. ‘... Crystal clear, as it tends to be from the Minister of Industry! The problem is that political clarity cannot be implemented in practice because of the lack of consistency between what is said and the follow-up to legislation. I am surprised to see that, following a proposal that was initially considered as so questionable by law - both from industry, the opposition and leading legal environments - the Government has also not been able to implement the political commitments in relation to the environmental fund. This, of course, leads to a weakening of confidence in political promises. It has always been the main argument of the Government that the new and competitive company tax model - and competitively it is doubtful, there is no political disagreement about it - together with the tax elements of the return of tax credits and with one third to equity capitalisation on the environmental fund overall would provide the industry with what they could live with. Much of this argument falls when, after a disputed process in terms of the actual re-taxation, neither is it possible to deliver on the environmental fund component. From the industry, this process has highlighted the need for predictable framework conditions. The first point is to be able to implement the political promises through practical implementation. I hear today the representative of Aasen Agdestein saying that two of Norway's top experts should look into this. I see it then that once again you will try to fulfill the political promises that have been made. I also understand that the representative, Aasen Agdestein, says - it is possible I misunderstood - that she almost knows what the conclusion will be, and that she believes that the outcome of the experts' statements will dampen the discussion. We'll see about that. We already have experience with experts in this matter. That was the Constitution. Those experts didn't like the government and government parties in particular. This really isn't that much about bookkeeping and not so much about regulations and laws, although it's the starting point. This is simply about fulfilling what is given by political promises, and I perceive that it is absolutely not done in this matter. I also want to say in response to the representative that Aasen Agdestein took up in his reply to me, and also in his reply to the representative Hagesetter, that the discounting of the tax credits in total makes it possible to book something as equity. Yes, you can. But it was foreseen from the day one when the project was carried out. The first day during the press conference in the government building, it was quite clear that it was in the cards. I'm not going to characterize it too much, maybe not call it an enormity in the debate, but it's a fact that you book it that way. It is also a fact that it was said from day one that it should be, and there are assumptions that the industry has always believed and known that they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e291	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e294	The representative Fleet first put the search light on the rent tax. I want to follow it up. I assume without a doubt that the Right believes that special taxes will be paid on high profits resulting from the consumption of a natural resource. In fact, the right-hand side suggested increasing the rent tax to 33.5 pst. on the treatment of the 2008 State Budget. It is 3.5 percentage points higher than the Government proposal - a proposal that was, of course, agreed in the Storting. It's not so often the Right goes into higher taxes than any other party, so the rent tax must be a kind of tax that the party thinks is particularly good. My question to the representative Fleet is therefore: What is the reason why the Right believes that power plants below 5500 kVA which are so profitable that they come into the base rate position should be exempted from this particular tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e303	It's quite right, as the representative Sandal has registered, that it's extremely rare that the Right is in favour of tax austerity. The reason we increased the general rate was short and good to finance the relief for small power plants. It's going to be roughly the same way as when the Right, and to the extent that the government parties, too, think that giving relief to the bottom is important. It is not just the power plant side and the energy side that are important for the small power plants. As I also mentioned in my post, this is a very important business out in the districts, and by strengthening it you get an extra effect. That's why we went to the Right pretty serious step to increase the tax one place and reduce it somewhere else.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e310	Right-wing representative, Svein Flötten, said this was about promises, and that the government did not keep the promises they made in connection with this matter. At the same time, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Industry have said that a third of the shipping tax should be written. It brings me to my question: Does the Right Trust the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e317	It was a very general question asking for very large declarations of confidence to both the Minister of Industry and the Prime Minister. When it comes to depreciation, I didn't talk about it in my post. What's my business is the equity situation. And in terms of the political promises of equity management, it's a fact that no company can account for it that way as law and regulations are now. We note that they do not, in short and in good faith. In addition to that, I do not want to give any special certificates to either the Minister of Industry or the Minister of Finance in this matter. But the audience think I've perceived it so that this with the environmental part was completely curative. It hasn't been, and then it's in the cards that you might get a slightly weakened trust, if you can say it that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e326	I would like to refer to the last part of the article by the representative Fleet about discounting. In the course of the proceedings on the shipping tax case last autumn, it was assumed that deferred tax on the conversion of the shipping tax system must be charged immediately to the accounts, without prejudice to the fact that the payment has been deferred on time. This was provided for in the proceedings of the Government and the Grand Duchy, cf. e.g. Ot. pp. No 1 for 2007-2008, the tax proposal, on page 31. In retrospect, audit firms seem to be willing to accept this. And then I wonder where the representative Fleet has it from that everyone knew this last fall, from the very first moment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e335	At the risk of talking about two different things, I perceive that the representative Aasen Agdestein, both in his previous line and in this one, is talking about the discounting effect of the total tax debt. I believe that it is not such that the government can now gradually take on income that the accounting rules of course allow the present value of the tax debt to be included in the balance sheet. We believe that the value of the deferred payment over 10 years was in the matter from the very beginning. As far as the environmental component is concerned, it's just like this, until someone tells me something else, that it can't be accounted for as an equity point. But if anyone can tell anything else here today, I'll jump brightly out of the hall, both for my own part and not least on behalf of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e342	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e345	It's moving toward our summer. It's good for the finance committee, which has come back from Brazil and Argentina, to see that the sun hits as hard here in Norway as it does down there--really, they have a slightly more comfortable temperature. We're here today to deal with the tax proposition. I believe that we deserve some praise from the opposition for much of the review we have done, both in terms of some simplifications that hopefully will make it easier for employers to report, and things that will help to make it easier to fight social dumping and black work, transparency for the police in different areas. In addition, we have the part that was notified in connection with the ground interest tax on the power plants, and I want to stay a little longer. In the course of the treatment of the rent tax in the autumn, a unanimous position, all of us from the government parties, was ready to say: Here we need a full review of incentives to promote both hydropower production and production of other renewable energy. At that time, the opposition was divided in relation to what they thought about that matter, while clearly two of the opposition parties have made a reversal in relation to how you look at the ground interest rate tax. In fact, all four opposition parties say that for the future, in connection with power plant production, all the labelled generators below 5500 kVA will not pay the rent tax. So this was divided by this. Does this mean that the two opposition parties that previously wanted a bottom subtraction have now entered to set an absolute limit of 5500 kVA? That's actually an interesting point. I discussed this a few weeks ago at the Small Forces Association, and then there were several of the opposition parties that fought hard and intensely for the bottom subtraction, but now they haven't gone into a bottom subtraction, but instead they go into a limit of 5,500 kVA. The reason why I ask that question is very simple. The reason why the government wanted to change this legislation was that it was seen that there was a clear adjustment effect for power plants over 5500 kVA, that is, stamping down these generators, and in that way actually losing power from some of the power plants we have today. I see that the opposition has a high -- what's it called -- tabling in other things, and claiming that we've done a hunch. Well, we listened to the industry and ended up doing what we did, and we come up with this proposal on the old power plants, and we've said that we're going to go through this case, while the opposition, at least two of the opposition parties, is doing a very clear reversal here. But if that's the policy, I think it's interesting to notice it. So to the point of property taxes, and here I want to ask the Progress Party a little question. So in the case of property taxes, if I take it into consideration, it's well subtracted, about 800 million. kr around the municipalities. This is money spent by progressive party politicians around many of the country's municipalities on care for the elderly, school and welfare of municipalities. Then my question to the Progress Party is: now that you want to deprive the municipalities of this opportunity, it is so that we can assume, in all the budgets of the Advance Party, that 800 million. kr of the money transferred to the municipalities is something that we can now subtract? It's meant to cover the property tax losses that some of these municipalities get. That property tax is a fair and good tax, I'm not going to go any further into it now. As far as the shipping tax system is concerned, Marianne Aasen Agdestein has clarified the point of view of our government. I want to underline again what was the point here: after the round of consultations we had, we've done a lot of the recordings that came from the industry in question. We have expanded the scope for implementing environmental measures from 10 to 15 years. And we have to remember one thing: when the Shipowners were consulting us, they asked to expand the volume of the Environmental Fund because they thought they had such good and strong environmental ambitions for the Norwegian Maritime fleet that they thought this would generate money that they would manage to use within the Environment Fund. So I feel like here we're doing what we can to fulfill the promises we've given.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e360	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e364	It was nice to hear that the representative Holmås was satisfied with the good words he received about the proposition in its entirety. I perceive that he is joining the representative of Aasen Agdestein who has said about the shipping tax. Then I just want to ask a relatively simple question, in line with what is being put to sportsmen sometimes: How does the representative Holmås feel when one has long politically promised that the Environment Fund could be included as equity in the accounts, and one has not been able to get legislation, laws, regulations, which make it possible? Does he have any relationship with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e371	That's a good question, and I have a relationship to it. I think it is very clear - and we also stress in our remarks - that the transitional rules that we have adopted will not in themselves prevent all or part of the fund from being classified as equity. You have been very responsive in the Ministry of Finance to the rounds you have gone with the industry in relation to many of the recordings and to make more changes to the regulations, you have had discussions, and in addition you have a study carried out independently of just these questions, so I believe that we have a good basis to say that we have implemented the policy that we have maintained all along.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e378	Now the representative was Holmås in on this with a property tax. In fact, not all municipalities have property taxes. So some municipalities do without a property tax. After the overviews I know, there is nothing to suggest that the municipalities that do not have a property tax have something worse to offer in primary tasks than other municipalities that have a property tax. It is important that a user makes more sense in these municipalities than in other municipalities. In many of the municipalities where the Progress Party has power, there is no property tax, and yet there is a good service offer. Then my question is to the representative Holmås: How does he believe that some municipalities are doing without a tax on their property and still provide a good supply to the inhabitants within the primary tasks?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e385	There are very big differences in municipalities -- some get a lot of money in transfers, and some are lucky and have a high tax base. I don't think there's anyone who wouldn't have liked to be in the position that part of the power stations in this country are in. The ten richest municipalities have an incredible amount of extra money. There can be no doubt that some of these have a better welfare offer than some others. It's also just to look at the welfare offer, babysitting prices, babysitting and other things to see who it is that is capable of delivering. What's a little interesting when I'm going to answer Gjermund Hagesetter's challenge is: Is it so that - now you can't answer my answer - Gjermund Hagesetter believes that it won't go beyond the service offer at all in Municipality-Norway if you have a pen stroke of 800 million. kr from the income of the municipalities, as he suggests here? In that case, I wonder what kind of world gardeners are in.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e392	The President will remind you that all speeches must be made through the President. No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e397	As the rapporteur explained, this concerns a number of minor changes without any particular material significance. There is also largely agreement in the opposition on the proposals that have come from the Government, so I will not use the time either. I want to spend time in the two areas that we have debated both over and over again in this Chamber. First, it applies to rent taxes on land. We are pleased that the government parties have turned around with regard to the ‘old’ power plants, while they maintain the proposal regarding the new power plants. There is an overall opposition that, not least in a situation where we need power representing a renewable energy source, provision should also be made for tax incentives to make the best use of it. That is why we are promoting the proposals that have already been taken up by us. I noticed that the case rapporteur justified the change from the government parties that they wanted more predictable framework conditions than what was originally in the Government's proposal. I can fully support that. What is worrying is that, with its proposal, the government will probably prevent the creation of new small power plants, which would be an important source of better power supply than is the case today, then with a clean and renewable energy source. The adaptation problems referred to by the representative of Aasen Agdestein also apply in the case of the limit proposed by the Government Parties. And for us, it's more important that we actually build power plants than look at what adaptation problems we're going to have afterwards. We'd better take a round on that. I have also understood that the Government itself will take a new round on this in the context of the revised national budget. As far as shipping taxes are concerned, this case is a new proof that what was done is causing serious problems for those who are going to deal with the legislation in the field. In fact, it reminds me a little about the round we have had about the NOx fee. It is winter and spring before you put in place a code that is practical. In some areas today, we have been assured not to prevent all or part of the Environmental Action Fund from being classified as equity, while expressing that there are reasons why it cannot be carried out as environmental measures, for example: if new ships are constructed. I just think this in sum proves that the whole case around the shipwreck is poorly prepared. There has been no preparation for the impact of the proposals on industry, which must be in line with the final decisions taken in this Chamber. Unfortunately, this means that we do not have predictable framework conditions, on which the rapporteur was concerned when it came to the small power stations, but not to the shipping industry. As a result, a very strong comment has been submitted from the opposition in Part II of this case. Then we're just going to hope that the investigations we're doing now will contribute to the political objective that I still have the impression that the government parties have, that it's going to be possible to carry out a third as environmental measures and equity, actually stand by. But if it stands through the further processing of the rules, it remains to be seen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e413	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e416	After the intervention of the representative Syversen, I can only see that the Christian People's Party is more concerned with the construction of the most efficient power plant, and less interested in getting the most power out of the power plants being built. But now leave it. I want to focus on the ship's cavalry. In a letter received by the Committee in the autumn, the Swedish Shipowners’ Association wrote that they were extremely concerned about reducing their environmental emissions and that they had zero emissions as their target. That's very good. But I also expected some of the opposition parties to be more concerned with the environment, which is not mentioned in the remark, which the Christian People's Party has also signed. I'm a little surprised about that, because everything is about equity in the company's balance sheet, and you're totally uninterested in the intention itself, which is about getting investments that benefit the environment. Does the representative of the Syversen consider that environmental considerations are so small that no environmental requirements are to be imposed in the shipping tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e423	First, until the representative wanted me to lie down. Of course, I cannot leave that in the case of power plant taxation. We are concerned with both the issues mentioned by the representative, Mr Aasen Agdestein - both that we should get the most force and that the framework conditions are also adapted. The representative may be assured that the Christian People's Party is behind it. It is clear that environmental measures need to be disrupted and validated in some way in the case of the shipowner’s assessment. I think it is a requirement for those who are now to design these rules, to follow up what has been said politically both from the majority here in the Chamber and from the Minister of Industry, to adapt the legislation in such a way that it both takes care of environmental concerns and strengthens the equity situation of shipping companies. That's what remains, if the government is able to reconcile this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e430	I'd like to follow up what Marianne Aasen Agdestein asked about, because that was one of the arguments. We had several rounds where several of the opposition parties at some point, and somehow, suggested that we should expand this environmental fund. The opposition has made a very general proposal, asking the Government to continue working on these things and to provide this equity, but let me hear: Is it such that the Christian People's Party has done any kind of work to clarify in what way you want to implement the environmental measures, the criteria for this, different from what the Government here adds?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e435	Although I know it suits the representative Holmås badly, we were in the debate we had before Christmas, very concerned to make sure that there was a dialogue between the Government and the industry about the entire shipping tax. It seemed quite uninteresting from the government team, and that's what you see now is the result of - that you first propose regulations, which probably cannot be implemented, at least not in line with what has been a political intention. We have to make sure that we don't now get a tax that for several of the shipping companies means bankruptcy, but make sure that they also have an equity that allows them to live on with the regime that the majority now adopts. So it's actually up to the government -- not up to the opposition -- to make sure that those regulations take care of both of these conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e441	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e444	I will deal with three themes that have been addressed in the setting, first clarifying the wording of the transitional rules of the new company tax system. Transitional rules have been adopted in connection with the amendments to the shipping tax system whereby, for tax credits processed under the previous shipping tax scheme, a settlement is to be made whereby two thirds of what the Government calls ‘calculated profit’ is to be taken into account for income over 10 years, while a planned tax amount linked to the remaining third can be allocated to the company’s environmental action fund, etc. Gains related to the provision of funds for environmental actions, etc. be taxed only to the extent that the provision is not used for approved environmental measures. The accounting rules determine whether the investment falls within the scope of the legislation. I have noticed that, in the Ministry's view, the content of the environmental fund scheme is in reality such that the benefit is tax-free if qualifying environmental investments are made. Now the term ‘qualifying environmental investment’ is used. The Ministry proposes amendments to the Tax Act to ensure that the wording of the transitional rules does not prevent all or part of funds for environmental measures, etc. may be classified as equity, depending on whether qualifying environmental investments are made. Simply put, money provided on environmental funds is equity with liabilities. Qualifying environmental investment is a liberal concept. Of course, qualifying environmental investments will contribute to increased revenues for shipping companies in the future. Approved investments must be far more than what can be defined as an additional cost for the companies. Qualifying environmental investment must be seen from a relative environmental perspective. I assume that new equipment is relatively better environmental than older equipment. This is also the case in other industries. In general, it has been said on the part of the Government - and it is good - that, in the context of all the laws and measures, it should facilitate that what is produced is better than what is older. With regard to another point, namely the Finnmark property, I am pleased that what is added to it is not opened up to print property taxes on the land of Finnmark property. Moreover, it is not appropriate to provide for taxes on property in commercial real estate where there are no buildings. After all, there are buildings on which property taxes can be levied under law - buildings with associated land. The Finnmark property is mainly land. It is the use of land. In terms of terms, it is 'agriculture' in different forms, a new way of defining the concept, and reindeer farming is one of them. So I'm glad this makes it clear that there's no real estate tax on it. But I would like to extend the argument to clarify that today's property tax law does not provide for the opening of property tax on non-household property, buildings and associated land. Finally, with regard to the determination of the basic interest income in the hydropower sector, the Centre Party is pleased that the Government has, on a more detailed basis, concluded that the size of already developed and planned small-scale power plants should nevertheless be fixed at 5500 kVA, so that power plants below this limit are not liable to pay interest on land. The government is further working on the tax code for, among others: new non-planned small-scale power plants, cf. the comments in the 2008 state budget statement. The content of this note will be clarified in the revised national budget. Therefore, the government parties do not want to vote in favour of the opposition's proposal today. The main challenge in the note that needs to be met is the need to increase the availability of renewable energy. This applies, inter alia, to: environmentally friendly hydropower, where both increased access through general upgrading and new construction, and more small power, must be provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e461	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e464	To what the representative Lundtegegen had to say at the end, about the improvement of the taxation of the basic interest income of already developed and planned small-scale power plants. This does not apply to new scheduled small power plants. I thought the representative Lundteggen was a little unclear about what the Central Party thinks about this, so I would like to ask the question: is this solution that is now on the table, in line with the central party's political starting point, or is the Central Party dissatisfied with this solution and would it like to improve on what has been proposed by the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e471	What is apparent from the comments made by the government parties to the State budget is that it should have a comprehensive review of the incentives we have, in order to promote a strong increase in the production of renewable energy. It also includes small-scale power. So what's done and what's described in this setting is that you improve what's older and what's planned. We're not satisfied that one hasn't moved on. That's also what I said: what we're going to do here for both upgrading and new construction in general for environmentally friendly hydropower, and for new small power plants, is what will be included in the revised national budget. So the premise is a huge increase in access. That's what the whole Stortinge agrees with.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e476	The representative of Lundtägen has historically been associated with the changes in Norwegian shipping policy in this house in several directions after this last case. I would like to ask the representative Lundtigen something in his contributions, about environmental funds, where, after talking about ‘qualifying environmental investments’, he says that environmental funds are ‘own funds with liabilities’. The problem is that equity with liabilities is not equity, it's debt! There is an overall audit industry that says in the light of the laws and regulations that have been prepared by the Ministry of Finance. How does the representative, Lundtigen, view this in relation to the political promises made about the equity management of environmental funds?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e483	I will be clear enough to agree with the replicator that I have played a certain role in the design of Norwegian shipping policy - and I am proud of that. As long as I have access to this pulpit, I will continue to do so. I've had a very clear line in that work. I said it popularly about environmental investment that it is ‘equity with liabilities’. So the representative fleet says that in relation to today's understanding of the accounting regulations, it's defined as debt. Well, then we have to have a new understanding. The new understanding is that ‘equity with liabilities’ is not defined as liabilities in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e493	This is starting to be a very interesting string change! If this is an expression of what the entire government constellation means, you obviously have a job to do even after we have made a decision today. This concerns the rent tax, which I now understand is completely disagreeable with, both the representative Agdestein said, and the representative Holmås said. What the Government actually comes into the revised national budget, we must wait for the revised national budget to see. But reading out of the three posts what it's going to be is at least impossible so far. And then that's the ship's cabotage. Lundtigen referred to the fact that equity, which can be defined as equity in relation to the environment, is now available. So my question is, is it the political objective of the Government that it should be as difficult as going through a narrow way to have this ruined as equity?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e500	It's important that the line chord changes are interesting, so I'm glad that we're involved. Point two: There is no total disagreement about the base rate taxation of small-scale power plants in the Government. On the contrary, the underlying thing is that environmentally friendly power, whether it is a power plant or a small power plant, needs to be stimulated in order to generate more energy. The answer to how we should do it comes in the revised national budget. Then to the shipwreck. I used the word 'nearly'. Rules get easier when you have precise terms. Shipowners and shipowners need to work through a solution in order to come under the environmental investment scheme. So the question is how to understand this relative to the equity question. Here, there are environmental provisions with liabilities that are not to be defined as liabilities subject to investment making according to the concept of ‘qualifying environmental measures’.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e509	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e512	The attitude deals with two issues of material disagreement, where the government does one thing and has promised something else. There is nothing new about today's government in itself, but it is rare that a lack of consistency between it and a law, and what one actually does, is as clear as in the two cases mentioned in the cancellation. The tax on land interest on small power plants and the transitional rules of the new company tax scheme are concerned. First a little bit about the taxation of small power plants. The government has made it clear that it wants to invest heavily in increasing the production of renewable energy. On the other hand, it has put in place a number of measures that are moving in the opposite direction. The government canceled the green certificate scheme. The government replaced what was supposed to be green certificates with a renewable energy support regime, which is very poor - one of Europe's worst in terms of renewable energy. The government has not managed to deal with long queues in the NVE, which results in projects, both in wind power and small-scale power, being exposed and partially crippled. And as if this were not enough, one has thus contributed to a tax tightening of small-scale power plants while the policy of the Government is supposed to be to increase the production of renewable energy. It is positive that the Government is now rectifying some of the damage in the case of small-scale power plants by stating that all those who have applied for a concession before 5 October 2007 are not to be covered by the new rules. It has no value for the future investment in renewable energy production when one wants small power plants to have a tougher tax regime than they have before, which in fact becomes such that the marginal tax rate for new small power plants can be 58 pst. This is a policy which, in its entirety, is Ministry of Finance and, to put it mildly, not particularly district- and environmental friendly. That is why I expect the government to be forced to do the right thing. I hope it already happens in the revised national budget. There are two alternatives in the case of small power plants. It is to go back to the old scheme also for future expansions, or to go back to the Small Forces Association’s proposal for a new bottom-up model. It's a model that can be a win-win solution for all parties. A base deduction for the first 20 GWh will remove the adaptation problem and thus give more power, more value creation and more tax to municipalities than today's system. With regard to the transitional rules for the shipping tax system, it is with great wonder that we follow the curve of the Government. As others have said before me today, it is the decision of the majority today that stands behind, in direct contradiction to what the Government has repeatedly confirmed and promised it will do. Both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Industry of the United Kingdom have promised that the third of the tax credits that can be set aside as funds for environmental measures will be held as equity in the company. The confusion has persisted for a long time. Today, further information is presented, and the outcome of this case is entirely uncertain. There have been clear promises made here by the Government. I agree with the representative Syversen, who concluded that it must be established that there has been very poor preparatory work by the Government on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e530	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e533	The representative of Kvassheim has in several debates amazed me with his contributions, and so did he in this post, where he criticizes this government. I want to remind him that when he was in government, nothing was done at all. We did not get climate emissions into the pollution law with his government. We did not get a CO2 tax. We didn't get any system of allowances. We didn't get a Mongstad project. We did not get any cleaning from Kårstø. We did not receive an energy fund of NOK 20 billion when his party put into government. But after that government was overthrown, he has emerged as a newly liberated south-westerlanding in the field of environmental policy - except in two cases, and the two matters he mentioned today. I would therefore like to ask whether he can explain his position in relation to the shipping tax and the proposed transitional arrangements and the power plant tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e545	To take the questioner seriously, I will refer to the issue of small power, and what the previous government did. A number of improvements were made to increase the production of small power. Simplifications were made in legislation and improvements in the tax system, which made the small-scale industry very satisfied. The more astonished one was when today's government reversed parts of this improved regime. So it's not right that the representative Kvassheim first in the opposition has got a lot of commitment in this area. I have had the pleasure of working for the previous government, which did things in the right direction and in accordance with what was said to be done, as opposed to today's government. I therefore believe that it is a good environmental position to facilitate the development of small power plants, and it is a sound and good environmental position to ensure that environmental considerations are taken into account by the shipping industry while strengthening the equity base.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e552	It's fascinating to hear the representative Kvassheim argue very strongly for a bottom-up in the small power plant tax when it's actually not what the Left suggests in the setting. On the contrary, it is proposed that, from the summer onwards, a scheme of 5500 kVa, which is the lower limit, should be introduced, with all the resulting adjustments to power plants. Then I simply ask: is it the left-wing leader Lars Sponheim who has not got what Gunnar Kvassheim thinks in this matter? Is it Gunnar Kvassheim who has slept an hour, so that the Left now promotes another proposal? Or is it that Gunnar Kvassheim at the conference of the small power plants, to which we both attended, kept the whole assembly a fool? Or is it just chaos about what the left actually means here?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e559	As I explained in my article, it is necessary to make strong improvements to the structure of today's government, in the case of future small-scale power plants. Then there are two good options. One is to reverse the tax austerity, go back to the old system. That's what the Left has joined the setting. If there's a solution that's hard for the government, we've said there's another good alternative, and that's raising the bottoms. Both of these solutions will trigger more small power than the scheme for which the Government has intervened. So the left stands for what we're saying in the setting, but we've said that we'll also be able to live well with a system that adjusts the bottom subtraction, as the Small Forces Association has set up. Now, what's a bad solution is to keep on not keeping in touch with what you're saying, and what you're actually doing. Today’s government needs to raise itself and provide for increased renewable energy production – not only in celebrations, but also in practical policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e566	I had the honour of being an energy and environmental spokesman for the Workers' Party in the last period. In the case of non-content parties, I would like to state the reasons for what Gunnar Kvassheim believes that with regard to this government, he could double what has been said and that has not been done. I referred some issues instead of that, but I still have two questions to the representative Kvassheim: If he thinks that the bottom line is that ideal, why did he have to wait until he came into opposition to mean it? And the other thing I want an environmental justification for is: why does the representative Kvassheim not support the environmental fund of the government within the shipping companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e573	I haven't said that bottom subtraction is the ideal. I have said that the bottom line can be a good solution, and I hope that the government in the revised budget either reverses the tax austerity and goes back to the old system or chooses the model that the Small Forces Association has set up. What the government should not do is to continue a policy that makes the framework conditions for those who will increase renewable energy production worse than they were under the previous government. Then it is right that the representative of Klungland was, in the last period, an energy policy spokesman for the Workers' Party. Then he stood for one of the clearest promises and a new example that the Government says they want to do something about energy policy, but do something completely different. I had the honour of being at the People's House in Sauda when the representative Klungland promised a new regime with favourable power prices to the industry and said it would be shortly after the election. In Sauda and elsewhere you still wait for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e582	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e585	The representative of the Seven was very right when he pointed out that there are now two considerations. It concerns equity and how the provision of environmental funds and tax credits to the shipping industry is to be carried out. We've now been working on finding a solution to this problem. The representative, Lundtigen, was also concerned with what is a correct understanding, namely that we are talking about qualifying environmental investments with commitments. We have had a flexible approach to this in the preparation of the regulations. We've been in dialogue with the Shipowners' Association. We have extended the deadline from 10 to 15 years. We've been very flexible. But we have insisted that it should be a qualified environmental investment. If you had been even more flexible in the line the Ministry of Finance has put on, the next step would have been that there were no environmental requirements at all in order to be able to carry this as equity. I think that is a terrible environmental policy. Indeed, we have believed in the shipping industry when they talked about their environmental exposure and how much opportunities they have to contribute to reducing global and more local emissions by making more targeted environmental investments in their industry. We know that this is an industry that we find difficult to regulate through international agreements. That's why it's very important that the shipping industry is involved in the search for the best environmental solutions. Therefore, of course, there are criteria for what kind of investment can be considered as environmental investment. When the companies are likely to comply with the criteria currently laid down in the regulations, they could be shown as equity. That's our starting point. Should we have gone further here -- let me take a parallel -- it would have meant that if you had a fund and were to buy a new car, you would think that it was a hippie that would be lucky if you bought a SUV or a hybrid car. We don't mean that. We believe that, in addition to encouraging initial investment, it should also be encouraged to pursue the best environmental solutions. We believe that, through their investments, shipping companies have many opportunities to contribute both to the creation of a market to offer more environmentally friendly investments in the shipping industry and to make significant investments in the shipping industry that will give us a more environmentally friendly fleet. By the way we have now secured transitional rules for this, we are ensuring that we are involved in solving an important environmental problem. I think it's strange that very many in the opposition who usually tend to be concerned about the environment put so little emphasis on this. The fact that the shipping industry would like to have the frees available to invest and to be able to include all initial investment in these definitions is another matter. I understand that with certain representatives, for example. Gunnar Kvassheim, there's a real environmental exposure somewhere. That's why I really expected that there would have been a lot more interest in just how to now design these regulations, so that you could secure a real environmental benefit. So a couple of strings about rent and power. This is a matter to which we will come back in the context of the revised national budget. It's a very high priority task for our government to make sure that we get to invest in new renewable energy. We're going to present an assessment of how we get there. I am not going to go into any substantive debate on this now, but I am delighted to present the revised national budget in the middle of May.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e598	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e601	The case rapporteur, Marianne Aasen Agdestein, informed today that the Government has acquired legal expertise to see whether legislation and regulations allow shipping companies to carry money set aside for remuneration as equity. If this expertise were to conclude that this is not possible, can the Council of State guarantee that the Government will propose changes to the regulations, regulations and laws so that it can actually do so and that the promises to the industry will be fulfilled? Or is it such that the industry should both have two-thirds of its capital invested in criminal taxes and pay for enormous so-called environmental measures without being able to do so as equity? Can the Council of State give a promise to the industry and guarantee that this can be carried out as equity, following the advice of legal expertise?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e607	I will not conclude on what the Government is doing. I have only recorded that there is disagreement between the Ministry of Finance and the Board of Auditors on the understanding of how this should be conducted. Of course, we have control over Norwegian legislation and regulations, but here we also have international accounting rules to deal with. We have absolutely a desire to illuminate this further. It's because we have great hopes that there's support for the understanding that we've built up. If that wasn't the case, I'll come back to Stortinget with an assessment of it, if the Stortinget wants it. Our starting point is that the understanding we have is correct and reasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e612	It is a derailment when the Council of State says that those who criticize the Government in this matter are not concerned about the environment. Yes, we are, but we are even more concerned about keeping political promises. That is what this matter is primarily about. Now the Minister of Finance says in his post that things have changed after talking to the industry, both in law and in regulation, and that the next step, as she said, would not be to set any environmental requirements at all. I perceive that the Council of State then says that it was not possible to come any longer. Does that mean that she acknowledges that the Government in this case cannot fulfill the political promises that were made to manage the environmental fund component as equity from day one?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e619	Both Minister of Industry Dag Terje Andersen and I keep our words on the question of how the environmental funds can be managed as equity. Those who don't have their words left, and I recommend that no accountants listen, and that the industry doesn't listen unless they want to lose money, that's the opposition. There is a comment in the setting: ‘These members note that neither the draft regulations sent at the hearing of the Ministry on 23 January 2008 nor the legal wording promoted in this proposition change the fact that 100 pst. of the accumulated tax credits must be shown as liabilities in the balance sheets of the companies. ‘... That's wrong. No one's supposed to listen to it. It is as I have said that the companies that are likely to have investment plans that follow the regulations should be able to carry this out as equity.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e631	Earlier in the debate, reference has been made to the annual meeting of the Small Forces Association, which was held for a short time. There, the Government was hit hard by criticism of its poor framework conditions for renewable energy production. Among the things that were criticised was the tax tightening of small power plants that are also mentioned in today's attitude. Energy Minister Åslaug Haga was present at the Annual Meeting of the Small Forces Association, and she met the assembly with an offensive promise that there would be better times. Now I understand from the Minister of Finance that she will not forge what comes into the revised budget, but the Minister of Energy did. She promised the Small Forces Association and those who were present that one would have a few tax improvements that would make the new regime that came at least as good as the old one, which today's government chose to change last year. Can the Minister of Finance confirm that the Minister of Energy had a back cover for his commitment to the Annual Meeting of the Small Forces Association?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e640	There has obviously been a very central meeting at the Small Forces Association that I have unfortunately not had the opportunity to attend. I can't deal with quotes from state councils or others that I don't know are precise. I'm not going to shoot what the government is presenting, because it's not done yet. Kvassheim knows that well, because he is well aware of the time limit for dealing with a revised national budget. But let me say on the issue of rent taxation: we have a very good base rate tax system in the petroleum sector. It's no wonder the oil companies initially protested about it. We are now proposing a much more favourable base rate tax for the power sector. It's no wonder the industry basically says it's inhibiting their investment. But when it comes to the question of how we design this, the proposal so far from the Government will not make profitable pre-tax investments not profitable after tax, it will function as if you have with you the state that owns. It also means that you have one to share risk with in bad times.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e647	This mantra that the government is right and the opposition is wrong is presented with such conviction that I suspect the Council of State to actually believe it sometimes. Then I almost have to ask about what qualifies as equity when we talk about the transitional arrangements and the shipping tax: does the Council mean that equity in this context, when we talk about environmental provisions, has a different definition to that of equity in general?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e652	I believe that the rules that are now laid down in regulations on what is considered to be environmental investment are very flexible. They're having a discussion with the industry. We have been attending. However, we have insisted that the heading that stands for environmental investment should apply. Therefore, any initial investment cannot be considered as an environmental investment. There's this, of course, there's been a disagreement between the industry and us. I believe that the balance that the representative Syversen made in his statement, namely, between how to manage equity for businesses, and how to encourage environmental investment, has found a good and balanced solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e657	It is now the case that equity should initially be used for all possible areas. There is then some uncertainty and uncertainty about this with qualified environmental investments, which the Minister of Finance has to deal with. Does the Minister of Finance really think that a qualifying environmental investment should be defined as equity? And if there is a signal that this will not be approved by the auditor, will the Minister of Finance come back to the Storting and possibly make adjustments or changes that will follow up the promises that have been made that this could be carried out as equity?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e662	Now most of the questions are asked and most of the answers given on this matter, but I would like to repeat: it is how likely that the plans you have will meet the obligations that are now in the regulations, which, in our opinion, determine whether this can be considered equity or not. I've been through it many times now. This is, of course, because we want this environmental fund to go to environmental investments. And we have no reason to believe anything other than what we've done in what's presented to the Storting, that that's how it's going to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e667	The cord shift is over. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e683	Odelstingen goes to voting in case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e691	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Gjermund Hageseter on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 3, by Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, Right, Christian People’s Party and Left, says: ‘The government is asking the Government to implement the necessary legislative changes so that the guarantee of Minister of Industry Dag Terje Andersen in the Stortinget on 7 February 2008 that the political decision that the last third of the latent tax liabilities can be carried out as equity may be adapted to the legislation of the professionals who design them. ‘... The proposal will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e1555	The Committee shall be consulted first on the position of A, B, C, D, E, F, H, I, K, L, M, N, O, P, Q, R and S.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e1566	There's still some letters left in the alphabet-- I'll now get back to G and J in the committee position. For G, which relates to the property tax law of the municipalities, there is an aberrant proposal, no. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Agreements to the Law repealing Law No 6 June 1975 29 on taxes on property taxes to municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e1594	Then we've come to capital J, which is the tax law. It is first voted on § 10-64b. The party of progress, the Right and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e1610	For J § 18-3 tenth paragraph there is an aberrant proposal, no. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: [[tax laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e1638	The remainder of the Committee's position shall be writed to J I and II, as well as to III as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e1648	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e1658	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-24-lower.ana.ud1010e1758	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
