ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e73	They called the alternates, for Akershu County Inge Hallgeir Solli and for Rogaland County Unn Therese O. Sørensen, have taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e85	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Odelstingen meeting today - and considers it to be adopted. The President will propose Gunn Olsen and Per Rune Henriksen. Other proposals are not available, and Gunn Olsen and Per Rune Henriksen are unanimously elected presidents of Odelstinget's meeting today. The President will propose that the Stortinget depart from the provision of the first paragraph of Section 43 of the Rules of Procedure and vote after case No. 1 on today's map has been completed, and then voting after the case no. 2-9 at the end of today's meeting. - No objection has been raised against the President's proposal, and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e108	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the political groups as follows: Working Party 45 minutes, Progress Party 25 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes and Left 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to five lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e119	Throughout history, homosexuals and lesbians have been forced to live out their love in hiding because of prejudices and prohibitions in the law. As late as 1972, 36 years ago, the ban on sex between men was removed, and ten years later, in 1982, the Ministry of Social Affairs removed homophilis as a disease diagnosis. We all have a close past that we're not as proud of. In the Labour Party, however, we are proud that we have contributed to the eventual elimination of this discrimination and that we have ensured that we give homosexual rights, first by the introduction of the Partnership Act 15 years ago and now by common marriage law. It's a historical suspense of the decision we're going to take in Odelstinget today. We put a final sentence on discrimination and discrimination against homosexuals in Norwegian law. We make sure that children of lesbians and gays get the same rights as any other Norwegian child. And today we are finishing the fight to adopt a common marriage law. In other words, it's a day in the sign of love. With a common marriage law, homosexuals will be allowed to marry, be judged for adoption and assisted conception just like heterophiles. But in addition to putting in place a law that covers everyone, the signal effect is that, as a legislative assembly, we give acceptance to lesbians and gays, perhaps even more important. For still homosexuals experience being harassed because of their legation. For a while back we could read in the papers about a girl in Trondheim who was thrown off the bus because she was a lesbian, and about a boy from Rogaland who experienced that the family beat his hand because he was gay, and that his friends said that he had been better off dead than gay. Such attitudes are reprehensible, which we need to take a strong distance from. That is why I would say that the decision on a common marriage law is a victory in line with the introduction of general voting rights and equality law. It gives a clear signal that gay and heterophilic are equally worth, and that love is equally beautiful whether there are two of the same sexes or a man and a woman who love each other. By amending the Biotechnology Act and the Children's Act, we guarantee the rights of children of homosexuals. It will give these children two legal parents from the time of birth and the right to inheritance if one of the parents falls away, and legal ties with grandparents on both sides. We know that lesbian girls go to Denmark to get assisted conception. So regardless of whether the Norwegian authorities facilitate this or not, these children will be born. By opening up assisted fertilisation in Norway to lesbian couples, their children will be guaranteed the same legal rights as all other children. Through an offer at a Norwegian clinic, the children will also know their origins. Most foreign clinics used by Norwegian lesbian couples today offer assisted fertilisation with anonymous sperm donor. Already today, the Norwegian health services offer assisted fertilisation with donor semen for heterophilic couples. The working party can't see that there will be any ethical difference if a heterophilic couple have children with this method than if a lesbian couple get it. In both cases, the children will grow up with two parents where only one is their biological, and where at the age of authority they have the opportunity to get to know their origins. The difference today is that children born into heterophilic relationships automatically get two parents at birth, while in the lesbian relationship you will have to go through a swirled process of stebarn adoption. I believe that as a society we have a duty to ensure that all children are given the same legal rights regardless of whether they are born with two mothers or with a mother and a father. The children are not to be punished. Our main task is to provide children with a framework for a stable family life regardless of whether their parents are gay or heterophilic. The working party believes it is positive that homosexuals are given the opportunity to commit themselves through marriage. Surveys show that people who are married are less likely to break up than cohabitants. 'Irreprehensible', said an eight-year-old girl who I know, when she wondered what was being discussed on the TV, and we explained to her that they discussed whether two boys or two girls who were girlfriends were going to get married. But she didn't stop there, she continued: 'If I get a girl girl once, I'll get married too! ‘This tells me that children are quite free from prejudice in this world, without discriminatory attitudes, and that it is the skepticism and prejudices of adults that may be passed on to children. During the recent debate, opponents of the law have been concerned that children of lesbians and gays are being bullied, and then in the next sentence to refer to children who have arisen after assisted conception such as ‘donor children’, ‘fabricated children’ and ‘insemination young’. If children get bullied, it's precisely because adults use such words. On the equal line with heterophilic couples there are many gay couples who want to marry in the church. Many homosexuals are religious, and many are members of the Church of State. That is why we are now opening up the church and other religious communities with a right, but not an obligation to dedicate gay couples. It's the Church Meeting that decides whether to create a liturgy that allows priests to conjure up pairs of the same sex. Until this happens, priests in the Norwegian Church cannot marry gay and lesbian couples. If this happens, it will be contrary to the promise of the ordinance, and the marriage will be invalid. In order to avoid any legal doubts about this, the Committee has promoted clarification in the second sentence of Section 16 of the First Paragraph of the Marriage Act, where it is clearly stated that ‘a marriage is invalid if the priest of the Norwegian Church has not followed liturgy established by the Church Meeting’. The Christian People's Party has several times recently accused us of having reversed our view of the Partnership Act by now adopting a common marriage law. Yeah, that's right. The Labour Party has often turned around in the view of discrimination against homosexuals. If we had done as a Christian People's Party which at every crossroads has fought with beaks and claws against any change, homophili would still be banned in Norway. The Christian People's Party voted against decriminalising homophilis in 1972, the Christian People's Party voted against the extension of the paragraph of racism to homosexuals and lesbians in 1981, and the Christian People's Party voted against the Partnership Act in 1993. All these things are for today. The problem is that the Christian People's Party has never taken a settlement with its view of homophilis and what they have faced in the past. In most of the hundreds of e-mails I have received from opponents of the new marriage law, it is played in fear of the unparalleled consequences such a law will have for children, family and society. But then we have to ask ourselves: what are the negative consequences of decriminalising homophilis and introducing the partnership law on society, family or children? Yeah, because it's the same threat picture and the same warnings that were issued that time, that's being expressed today. I have a hard time seeing this threat picture being drawn. Homophils getting married can hardly help weaken the marriage institution. I find it hard to believe that heterofiles let themselves be married because homofiles get the same right. On the contrary, I think the marriage institution will be strengthened. There will be no more gays in society either because we're changing the law. But what's certain is that more homofiles will come out of the closet and live openly with their lay. For every time we've changed the law, it's contributed in parallel to society's changing attitude towards homophilis. Both trailers and opponents of the law use the children as arguments. The primary independent figure for children in Norway is the Children's Ombudsman. The Ombudsman has one objective for the eye, to find out what is best for the child in any situation. And the Children's Ombudsman is clear. It recommends at all points that both gays be considered adoptive parents and lesbians be given access to assisted fertilisation. On the same line with heterofile pairs there are many gay couples who now get that opportunity. Finally, I would like to thank all those who have spoken together or alone about the homofiles for many years. It costs to stand in the wind when it blows, so I hope everyone, everyone, takes this historic day as a victory. Let the decision in Odelstinget today be a declaration of love for all the couples, regardless of their orientation, who have found love. For, as we know, the greatest of all is love! Finally, on behalf of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, I would like to make suggestions. 8, which is distributed in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e159	The representative, Gunn Karin Gjul, has taken up the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e164	The representative, Gjul, is an avid spokeswoman for the Workers' Party on gender equality and family issues and has, over time, arranged for men to participate more in school and kindergarten. She has called for us to have women and men involved in corporate governance, and for us to have representation from both sexes in local government and politics. She has also eagerly called for Dad's part of maternity leave, that it's important to have a father there for quite a long time. Why? Well, probably because there's a difference between father and mother, that women and men can contribute different things. Now she wants to set up a system where father is reduced to a sperm cell in a sperm bank and the child can best hit father at age 18. Here, there's a huge logical flaw in the argument, such a big hole in the argument that you can drive a truck through it. I'll ask her to explain this logical flaw in the argument.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e171	First, I think it's very polite that the Progress Party has finally become so concerned with equality, and that they even promote the human role and the importance of men having to participate more in care. I sincerely hope that we will have more such debates. Then I have to say that the Progress Party at all does not relate to reality as it is today. For the matter is that these children are already born today by lesbian mothers, and then we have to assume what is best for the children. The situation today is that these children are being discriminated against. They don't have the same rights as other Norwegian children, and I just have to replicate back to the Progress Party: what is it that we are going to discriminate against children of lesbians just because they are born into a lesbian and not a heterophilic relationship? I see no reason why we should not have a law that equates these children with all the other children in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e178	There has been a discussion in this case in connection with the approval of assisted fertilisation done in countries where the donor is not known, and Denmark in particular is involved in this. To the right, it is important to take care of the need for the child to know its biological origin, and it has been crucial for us in view of the fact that we are today proposing that the legislation should be geared towards that very thing. The material difference is that where children are born in such a context, the co-mother must seek adoption, unlike that she would become a co-mother immediately. Then we've talked in several ways about getting good adoption procedures, and my question is whether the Workers' Party will help us get better and more effective adoption procedures in these contexts, and that we get the card down the time it takes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e185	I think that both the representative from the Right, Olemic Thommessen, and I'm concerned about the same thing. We are concerned that we should make the best possible use of these children. That may be why we have a slightly different assessment of the very issue of the recognition of clinics abroad, because we have been working towards the idea that these children must have the same legal rights regardless of whether you choose to perform the assisted fertilisation in Denmark or Norway. But I don't see that it's a big deal, and there's no drama about it. Like the representative Thommessen, I'm concerned that step-children's adoption must go faster than it does today, so that we can help these children get the same legal rights as any other child.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e192	It is an expression more than anything else that characterizes the whole debate on the proposal for a new marriage law, and that is the word discrimination. It seems that the fear of discriminating has led the majority to close their eyes to the many large and unsolved principal aspects of the proposed legislative change. Unlike the Norwegian Government, they in Sweden have taken the time to settle these questions. One of the conclusions of the Swedish distribution - and it has been assessed against the human rights conventions - is that it is not discriminatory to keep up two laws, one for heterofilt and the other for gay life. On the basis of this, my question is asked: Does the representative of Gjul mean that homosexuals are discriminated against in today's marriage law? Yes, I would like to expand the question further: Does the representative Gjul mean that the biology itself is discriminatory?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e199	I believe that children of lesbians and homosexuals today are discriminated against in our law. It is such that children of lesbians born from assisted conception abroad do not have two parents at birth. So if they come into a situation where mother dies in childbirth, you don't have another parent. It has a child who is born by assisted conception of heterophilic parents. They automatically have two parents at birth. I consider it a discrimination if the Christian People's Party does not consider it a discrimination. Then I'm a little worried about what is really discrimination in the eyes of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e204	The government has been criticised for the process associated with this law. The left is very confident about its vote when they have had this position over several major periods of time, but I understand that there is criticism about a process where only one solution has been chosen in the consultation process, and what emerged in the hearing on other models of marriage law is not addressed either. The left has a very tidy and basically good model for a new marriage law, where one separates the bourgeois wedding and the religious ceremony. I think that would have been a much more unifying model. It would have been a model that even those who feel this marriage model is threatening, might have looked at as a much more aggravating model. So my question is, when the government has put so much 'driving' to make a change as they have done, why wasn't the Left's model more involved in the debate, so that we might have avoided the uncertainty that many people feel?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e212	Unlike Left, we believe that the issue of compulsory marriage does not belong in a case where we extend the marriage law to gay couples. We are a little surprised that the Left did not promote this view and the proposal in connection with the big issue of church-state that is now in the Stortinget. We believe that the question of the right of marriage belongs naturally when discussing the Church of the People. There is no doubt that both in the Workers' Party and in the Centre Party, the Church of the People is strongly standing, and the view that it is an important part of the Church of the People's Church that one should have the opportunity to marry in the Church is of great importance. Therefore, we believe that this does not belong in this case. In addition, we are afraid that it will send out a signal to the gay people that you will be allowed to marry you, but you are not good enough to get married in Kirka.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e219	First, just a few brief comments on the referral of the case by the rapporteur. I guess she didn't explain the whole committee's view, and it might well be the case rapporteur who should take over. Now that I have been sitting and hearing the case rapporteur talk about the homofiles' rights, it is tempting for me to believe that the case rapporteur also believes that it is a right for homosexuals to have children. Then I will come to the proposition, which opens up and accepts that lesbians can actually go to Denmark and get assisted conception where the donor is unknown. Is Gjul satisfied with, and does she think it's okay, that we break the Children's Convention and deprive the children of the right to know and know their biological origin?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e226	First of all, I would like to say to Mr Woldseth that, in a matter as big as it is in the committee, it would be difficult for me, as the rapporteur, to promote the view of the Progress Party and to cover it in some way. So the question of the right to have children. It is quite obvious that no one has a human right to have children, but I will not make myself a judge over another girl who has the same strong desire as I have to have children, and say that she is not allowed to have children. Whether you are a lesbian or a heterofile, the desire for children is the same. I can't see that I'm going to make myself an over-judgment there. So I think it's quite interesting that the Progress Party is so concerned with the Children's Convention in this context. It's not long since we had a discussion about the Foreign Affairs Act in this room. Then the Progress Party thought that we should start breaking different conventions in that area. You can't be in one case for international conventions to be respected, for the next time to be against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e235	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e238	We are debating today the Government's proposal for a new common marriage law for heterophilic and gay couples. I have been sitting on the Stortinget for over ten years, and I believe with great certainty that this must be the largest and most fundamental proposal for legislative change that I have been involved in. It is not everyday in the family and cultural committee in Stortinget that we deal with issues that change the basic structure on which society has been built since the dawn of time: mother, father and children. In addition to the amendment of the Marriage Act, the Government’s proposal also includes amendments to, inter alia: the adoption law, the biotechnology law and the child law. The aim should be to ensure the rights and quality of life of gay and lesbians. I don't think the kids are very careful about it. In concrete terms, Lesbian and gay persons are admitted to marriage. They're also allowed to adopt. Lesbian couples also get access to assisted conception, supported by the state budget - that is, by us taxpayers. Autoparenting of non-biological mother in lesbian marriage is introduced after birth, in line with heterophilic marriage - a kind of "feed est" as a parallel to "pater est". That the child actually has a father, and needs a father, somewhere, you ignore. The proposal also opens up the possibility for church and religious communities to devote lesbians and gays. For the time being, this is voluntary, but we know in what direction it's going. We in the Progress Party believe it would be totally unacceptable to oblige religious communities to commit homosexuals, and we are afraid that coercion in this field is the next step for the Workers' Party, the Center Party, SV and the Right. It's interesting to note the great commitment of the population in this matter. So far we have received several thousand e-mails and letters with protests against the proposal. We've seen protest trains, signature campaigns and advertising campaigns -- a great and broad popular commitment to the law. The interesting thing is that we have only received a handful of requests with support for the proposal. This says a lot about there's no popular requirement behind this bill. It is relatively clear that the law is a result of lobbying from a small but well-placed ‘homo-lobby’ in the capital that has its people centrally located in government, departments, parties and, not least, in the national press. The programme of the Progress Party for the 2005-2009 programming period reads as follows: ‘The party will highlight marriage as the most stable and secure framework for a family relationship. However, the Progress Party believes that all people have a clear right to set themselves up in the way they find themselves best, and that this in itself has a self-value. Therefore, the Progress Party will not further regulate the relationship between consensual residents. ‘... It also states that: ‘The party of children is of the opinion that children have the best upbringing by having parents of different sexes, and therefore does not want homosexuals to adopt’. This is our overall view of this matter, and we will therefore go against the bill. The aim of the legislative amendment shall be to ensure the rights and quality of life of homosexuals and lesbians. But is it right to strengthen the rights of some adults, based on their sexual practices, at the expense of the children? The Progress Party believes that the draft law clearly violates Article 7.1 of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, which states that, as far as possible, the child should have the right to know and care for his or her parents, and Article 18.1, which states that both parents have a common responsibility for the child’s education and development. Of course, homosexuals and lesbians should be able to live openly and not be discriminated against. Those who choose to live in gay couples shall have good and safe arrangements for their lives. We therefore see the importance of the state facilitating this by means of the Partnership Act. This ensures the same level of protection and almost the same rights as marriage partners in partnership. If the Partnership Act does not function that way, it should be amended. It'll probably be the ones who say we're discriminating. But I don't think it's discrimination to treat heterosexual and homosexual couples differently with regard to children because of the biologically dependent ability of heterosexual couples to conceive of children. Very many people believe that the changes we are discussing today are flawed. That criticism weakens the legitimacy of the law. The Progress Party believes it is critical that the Government has not made this important matter the subject of a proper investigation. Such a case requires a longer and more thorough process involving different disciplines and all relevant societal interests. The last time major changes were made to the marriage law, 20 years were used. From the government parties it will be black that the matter has been thoroughly investigated and carefully, through several interim investigations. Here I want to show that many people believe that the majority of the investigations on which the law is based appear far on the road as commissioners, written by individuals with the same ideological status as the Government, and not as serious research-based assessments. The Progress Party believes that much more time should be taken in the work on the law - time for debate, professional involvement and depression in all the premises and consequences of the law. We should recognise that the experience and research of children in gay relationships is so deficient that one should act on the precautionary principle. In an in-depth question of this kind, it is irresponsible to introduce irreversible legislative changes when we have so little knowledge. What about the religious perspective? Like many others in Norway, I am a Christian. I am pleased that my party acknowledges that the Christian basis of values is central to Norwegian society. But even if you are not a Christian, you have to realize that Norwegian society is largely built around Christian values, and that a large majority profess Christian faith. From such a point of view, marriage between man and woman is absolutely central. But also other religions, including Islam, has a similar view of marriage between men and women. We have to assume that we per. Today, there is a significant challenge for those who come to Norway from cultures that are distant from us. This applies in particular to Muslims. I do not ignore the fact that the law's definition of marriage - that is, the new definition - will further alienate many with immigrant backgrounds from the Norwegian community and contribute to an increased gap between immigrants and ethnic Norwegians. That for the next 300-400 years you're going to make Muslims accept marriage between two men, I guess I'm optimistic -- not to say directly naive. The Party considers that the concept of marriage should continue to be officially reserved for male-female co-operation and commitment. Marriage is a social system that is found in different cultures and is socially sustainable. Despite variations and adaptations to social conditions, marriage between men and women has been a strikingly stable and viable institution. This is probably because of the biological capacity of men and women together to conceive children. I'm addressing proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox It is that we do not address the other proposals, because revised versions are distributed. - Now I see that Green is nodding, and then I expect that I'm good within what I'm supposed to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e295	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e300	First, a small piece of information after hearing Mr Knudsen’s observations: he himself referred to the concept of ‘biological ability’. Then I just want to inform the representative Knudsen that gays and lesbians are not sterile. [[Mutuality in the gallery]] Because they can have children, and they have children. That's what this case is about. Then the representative Knudsen presented himself to his own party's principal programme. I will quote the following, which he did not read: ‘The fundamental to the social view of the Progress Party is the belief and respect for the individual’s peculiarity and the right to decide on his or her own life and economy. Individuals are the largest resource in social development » together with the family and private ownership. The party of progress also celebrates the family as an institution in many other contexts, and from this it is a mystery to me that the party of progress ends up with a position restricting the rights of homosexuals and lesbians in relation to the right to establish a family, i.e. the same rights as everyone else. Can the representative Knudsen explain how it may be that on the one hand you celebrate the family and the individual - and on the other this limits for selected groups in society?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e312	It is true, in fact, to inform the representative of the Workers' Party, that two men cannot have children, one or two women. There must be two of the different sexes to get to this with children. It is an undisputed fact that lesbians and homosexuals have found themselves outside of nature in terms of reproduction. [[Mutuality in the gallery]] Two men can't have children, one nor two women. So it's a fact of nature. There must be some sperm cells and some egg cells. As far as the second part of the question from the representative is concerned, the Workers' Party's rhetoric in this debate is based on the needs of adults. The Progress Party has what is best for the children as the basis for its family policy, and then we come to different conclusions depending on what you start from, and who you take into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e319	As the representative Knudsen had in mind, there have been a lot of enquiries in this case – more than I have experienced in any other matter. Most of it has been good and factual information, but there have also been direct threats and shenanigans, in a language that I take a great distance from. Does the representative agree with me that no one, whether politicians or others, deserves to be threatened because of his political position or in so far as he is lying, that everyone - regardless of position, orientation or whatever it may be - has a right to respect, and that this kind of influence of the Storing is not in any way desirable? That's not how we want to deal with these difficult and demanding questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e324	That is a very good question that my honourable colleague is asking. I share his vision to the full. It is quite clear that among the thousands of e-mails and enquiries that the Stortinget has received, there have been a number that have gone far beyond what should be written in an enquiry to another person for both human and polite reasons. I take it as an expression of the great commitment that is in the people in this area. If 50 people may have crossed the line a little, you would rather keep reading the 900 e-mails that have made a factual argument in this area. But I therefore share the view of the representative, Mr Höglund, that someone in this area has gone too far.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e329	'What is best for the children', the representative said Knudsen in his reply to the representative Agdestein - it is also related to the reasoning in the comments on the matter. What's best for the kids is the axis that we're going to argue for. So now there's a bunch of kids, and we know there's going to be more, many more, of those who live within that framework -- a family framework -- that's about like-minded couples. We know that today there are many aspects of legislation that do not grant these rights. These are issues related to being a ‘co-mother’, as they are referred to here. Then you also say that within the partnership law you want to do something about this. And my question to the representative Knudsen is: why has the Progress Party not made any proposals that support the position of children in such a situation? And what will the Progress Party do in the coming period to help children's position in the framework of any partnership law to be equal to that of other children?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e339	It is interesting to get critical questions from a party that in this matter has broken both their own program, the promises they have delivered to the voters, and the very clear views they had when they were in government last, where they crept against assisted fertilization for lesbians. I find that interesting in the first place. What we've been asking for is a longer and wider process than the one we've had per. today. And there I would like to refer to the remarks we have that this requires a much broader and more comprehensive investigation than what is actually there per. today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e346	The Progress Party shares with the Christian People's Party in a comment that says that only 127 lesbian and gay partnerships were concluded in 2006. The total number of similar partnerships thus represents about half a percent of the total number of marriages and partnerships entered into. These members therefore believe that statistics give good reason to draw the conclusion that there is a very small proportion of the population actively working for a common marriage law. This is an interesting analysis. Is it so that the Progress Party has now become a party that only takes care of matters where there is a majority, statistically speaking, because people want a change? In fact, I believe that the Progress Party has been a party that has faced some weak and vulnerable groups. I wonder if you've changed your policy now, or is this just a lesbian and gay thing?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e355	We're making those comments to show that this is talking about a small group of people. The question is whether we should change the whole basic relationship to marriage and children and to the growth of children because of the requirement of a small group. So in this area, the Progress Party has black that we shouldn't do that, but SV has said that we should.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e360	There were many inconsistent messages from the Progress Party. They probably understand that when they have to use up the cord shift on their own to avoid anyone pointing it out. It is new that the Progress Party is suddenly in favour of Dad's presence and equality policy. It is also quite new that they are anxious about the danger of alienating people from other cultures. I won't notice. But I'm going to ask you something completely different. I am a member of a liberal party that is a member of an international movement of liberal parties. The right to marry, regardless of sexual orientation, is actually a very important matter for all liberal parties around the world. The party has sometimes tried to push itself into this family and claims to belong to this family internationally as a sister party. Can I now get a final explanation from Ulf Erik Knudsen that the Progress Party will never demand the right to be part of the liberal parties in the world, with the position they have in the matter of marriage?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e371	I believe that our foreign politicians and our party leaders will be the ones who answer questions about the foreign policy and dispositions of the Advance Party. Among other things, our foreign policy spokesman, Morten Höglund, is also present in the Chamber, so that he may come to that later in the debate. With regard to the relations of the Progress Party with the liberal, I have therefore said earlier in the debate that for the Progress Party, freedom of choice and, in the case of family policy, concern for children is very important. And freedom of choice is the central, liberal value. The representative of the Left should know that, since she claims to be a member of a liberal party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e378	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e381	The way up to the decisions the Stortinget has today been invited to make, has been demanding, no matter what position you take. Equal treatment of gender equality and gendered couples deeply affects attitudes rooted in tradition, religion and the intuitive perception of nature. This has been in violation of a strong maturation process in which a broader acceptance of lifestyle diversity has broken the path to a society with increased tolerance and demands for equal rights not only in its name but also in its benefit. We live in a time that in many areas is marked by strong change. Many people experience this as the decay and dissolution of norms and traditions, and feel uncertainties associated with it. In our case, we see a heated debate on the content of the concept of marriage, and we experience that the possibilities of biotechnology challenge ethical scandals and break the boundaries of nature previously set for us. This is nothing new. But in this case, we affect the limits of what is our most valuable relationship: the relationship between parents and children. This makes the issues close and demanding to deal with. A minority in the Right will vote against the proposed legislation. For them, among other things, arguments rooted in tradition, religion and ethical boundaries have been decisive. The right-wing group has respect for this and has set representatives free in this matter. In line with the recognition that these issues have a profound bearing on beliefs and religious attitudes, the Right will support the proposal that health service employees have a reservation opportunity. It is also our view that teachers must have the opportunity to communicate their own views that marriage is between men and women - of course, on the assumption that the dissemination takes place within the framework of the curricula, and that it is also taught in what is the law of the country, in a way that does not seem to be consistent with the children involved. However, a clear majority of the Group of the Right will support the main features of the Government’s proposed legislative changes. Right-wing positions are based on arguments relating to children's rights and the basic position that we as legislators in a modern democratic rule of law must strive for non-discrimination and avoid all forms of discrimination. When I refer later in this article to the Right View, it is on behalf of this majority. When the right already a year ago took a position in the matter, that it would in principle be right to open up an equal legal framework with regard to heterophilic couples and gay couples' ability to enter into an obligatory life, it was subject to the Church's not being imposed on it itself. In our view, this is taken into account in the proposal. The right-hand position is based on the fact that the address of a given group in the Partnership Act makes the law problematic and may appear discriminatory. Not least, the majority should listen when the group concerned by the law feels just that way. Although many have a religious approach to what marriage means, it must be clear that for us as legislators, this is primarily a legal matter. In a secular, multicultural society, therefore, there are good arguments that public authorities should base a system based on mandatory civil marriage. The hearings on this matter have further updated such a debate. For the Right, the issue of compulsory civil marriage will be a balance to the long traditions we have that religious communities, and in particular the Norwegian Church, too, have the power to consecrate. This has - so far - proved to be a practical and good arrangement. To the Right, it will be very important what the Church itself believes on this issue. The right has not taken a stand here, but it is important that the matter is investigated. The right-hand programme establishes that similar couples should be able to be assessed by adoption. We therefore also support the Government's proposals on this point. We know that more and more children are growing up in situations where the framework is equal together. It is an important objective of family law to embrace all children, including these. In a society that fully accepts gender equality, it can not be the individual's orientation, but rather the person's care and social framework that must be essential to taking responsibility for the growth of a child. The government also proposes that lesbian couples have access to assisted conception, in line with heterophilic couples. Heterophilic couples receive such help in cases where they do not achieve pregnancy themselves through normal living. This may be due to demonstrable medical reasons, or it may be based on what we call unexplained infertility. In view of the fact that there is no right to have children and that being a lesbian cannot be considered a disease in any way, it is easy to fall to the conclusion that assisted fertilisation should not be allowed for this group. However, when the Right has come to a different conclusion, it is in the interests of the children who will be covered by it. More important than adding to a sharp distinction between who is sick in this context and who is healthy, is to ensure that the children born are conceived under the best possible health conditions and, as far as possible, to ensure that knowledge of their biological origin is available. However, we believe that equal treatment implies that, in the same way as heterophilic couples are required to have tried to obtain a concept prior to the initiation of medical treatment, it is also necessary for lesbian couples to try to achieve the same through insemination before further treatment is given. To the right, the modified provision of the Biotechnology Act understands that lesbian couples must have tried insemination before opening up fertilisation outside the body. In so far as it is not a matter of remedying any disease, we also believe that this must be considered primarily a private matter, and therefore given low or no priority - in terms of the costs to be borne by the public here. So it's the child's concern that the question of opening up assisted fertilisation to lesbian couples has been crucial to the Right. For us, in the light of this, it is also difficult to accept that assisted fertilisation abroad should be recognised in those countries where the sperm donor is anonymised. We are therefore promoting - together with the Left - a proposal that calls for a known donor in these cases as well. The proposal concerns the second paragraph of Section 3 of the Children's Act, second sentence, and the fourth sentence of Section 4 of the Children's Act. In practical terms, this means that children born of assisted fertilisation on land with an anonymous donor must be adopted by their co-mother. So the right-hand side gives greater weight to knowledge of biological origin than to wait for adoption until co-mother is legally in place. This will focus on standardised issues, and the right considers that resources need to be devoted to the effective implementation of this type of adoption process. As regards the other issues of the case, such as the relationship with international regulations and conventions and the proposed parental arrangements, these appear, in our view, to be natural adaptations to the main issues of gender equality and access to assisted conception for lesbian couples. We therefore support these adaptations. Someone's cheering today--and I'm cheering with them. Today’s decision means the final confirmation that gay life is as reputable as heterophilic and that the rights and obligations of a legally binding life are promised from a gender perspective that has been tactfully discriminatory to a group of people. The rules that we introduce open up opportunities. They don't take any rights or opportunities from anyone. Those who feel that marriage is reserved for men and women can still put this content in it and demand respect for their position. It is my belief that, through this adaptation to a new era, we are strengthening commitment and family life as a foundation in our society. All the experience of the Partnership Act tells us exactly that. The desire to build family relationships, a family setting for a life, is for Right very, very important. I'm taking up right-hand suggestions. Like the representative Mr Knudsen, I would like to mention proposal No. 4, which is replaced by the concrete legislative amendments that we have tabled.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e425	The representative, Olemic Thommess, has taken up proposal No. 7th@item: inlistbox It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e430	I would like to thank the representative Thommes for a very good cooperation on the treatment of common marriage law. It's very important that there is now a broad majority in the Biggest of the Law, not least for the sake of the gays, who get this recognition of their community. But we know that there are slightly different future images of the consequences of the law that we are adopting today. We've had similar discussions before. The first time the Ministry of Justice proposed to abolish the criminalisation of homosexuals was in 1954. Then the bishops of the country said that ‘we are facing a danger of world dimensions’ and that it is ‘a well-known case that homosexuality has grown to a horrific extent in many countries’. Also in today's debate, there are some people drawing some scenarios that are quite cruel. I want to challenge the representative Thommess on the following: What does he think will be the consequences in the future of the law we adopt today?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e439	From some of the e-mails we have received, you can get the impression that we are now where Sodom and Gomorrah's gates open on a wide gap and the country crashed into the abyss. I'm absolutely sure that's not the case. We see from the experience that we have, that the family is just strengthened by creating a structure around a life. What we're doing is just opening up a group that has so far been put on the page, actually gets the same opportunities for what is a tradition in our country, that of building up the family. I'm absolutely sure that when we wait for the idea, when the many people who today experience this as a ghost, actually get daylight on it, you'll see that this will strengthen family relationships in the future. I'm absolutely sure we'll talk about this as the greatest of course in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e446	The right is based on traditions and values and not least predictability. But in the Inner East. O. No 16 for 2003-2004 the Right, together with the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, says the following: ‘However, childlessness in pairs of the same sex is not due to medical conditions such as infertility. An extension of the offer of assisted fertilisation to lesbian couples means that this health offer is extended to persons who are not childless for medical reasons. The majority believe that this represents a morbidity of childlessness that is not desirable. ‘... So evenly, the right goes in for assisted fertilization today. Then I could imagine asking the representative Thommess: is that how we're going to feel in the future too? Is it unpredictable to characterize the Right in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e457	The right is not and will not be marked by unforeseeableness in the future. With regard to the specific question, I have not stuck under the chair in my post that if you make a strict reasoning in relation to what is the public's task in terms of health services, it is about medical reasons in the exit point. It's right that you're not sick because you're a lesbian. That's why this is a demanding balance. When we've come to this position anyway, it's because we put the child's rights first. Unexplained infertility is a grey zone, which is also not a hundred percent medical reason. For us, it is more important to take into account the child than to graze at this limit, and to ensure that the birth of children comes into order in Norway, that the child is given knowledge of its biological origin, and that the health of heritable diseases and such things is taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e466	Right and left assume that being a lesbian is not being sick. Being heterophilic is probably not sick either. There are different reasons why heterofiles are sterile, infertile -- it can even be self-inflicted. What I'm asking you is that the representative of Thommess says that if heterophiles don't get pregnant in normal company, everything should be arranged. But it's actually like having a sexual orientation as a lesbian, you may not be able or willing to have this usual relationship. The representative of Tommess is also concerned with the rights of children to know their origin. Aren't you a little anxious in the Right to use a practice here that actually makes you not get to know the donor in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e473	With respect to reporting: I think this was an incomprehensible question, but I'm going to try to pick something out of it after poor ability. [[muttering in the hall]] The thing is this: we're trying to follow a reasoning that completely equates heterophilic couples and gay couples. Heterophilic couples must - if you are unexplainedly infertility - test for one year. The point is that we think it's actually reasonable that lesbians also try it, and we're willing to open access so that they can try it in ways they like. We are followers of freedom of choice in all contexts, including this [[muttering in the hall]] This was a reasoning about the problem. I don't know if there was an answer to Mr. Hansen's question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e482	The Christian People's Party believes that such a fundamental change in one of society's most important institutions should have been thoroughly investigated before a bill is promoted. This has taken time for both France and Sweden. The right was in the media and gave its support to the bill, a proposal that was very deficiently investigated, even before it was sent to the Stortinget. Today, the Right writes that they agree that it would have been reasonable both with a thorough investigation and with a larger commission that could consider the proposal for a new marriage law. Nevertheless, our right-wing proposal to return the law does not support better investigation. There's little help in protesting about the whole world when you're on your way. Does the Right really believe that the case is sufficiently well prepared to reach a decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e489	Now it's like this in our party that we're able to take a stand on fundamental questions regardless of matters promoted in Stortinget. What the representative Woie Duesund points to is that we already a year ago signaled that there was nothing in the way that we could have a common legislation for heterophilic couples and gay couples. It was a fundamental question, and we took all the world's reservations in that regard, not least as to what the Church had to have of views on this, and that the Church should be fully released in these questions. At that time we did not take a position on all the questions raised in the matter now - in relation to assisted conception and in relation to co-motherhood and these things that have come up. We took a position on the fundamental question, whether it was opening up for this also in our program -- which it is. In this way, I cannot understand that there has been some inconsistency in our attitudes about how this case has been dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e494	No, I usually see the Right as being very consistent and principled in the approach to different questions. The left has a different model of marriage law, which the Right supported in an investigation into this matter, but they do not want to vote in favour of our legal text. My question is: does the representative believe that it is possible to get right in another government constellation, for example, in order to get a more orderly arrangement for what is the task of the state, what is the state's business, and what is the church community's business?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e501	Now I'm not going to prejudge what will be a party process in the Right, but I'm assuming that at a new government-- it had to come, and we had to be with, both of them. [[muttering in the hall]] But it is clear that this is lifting something out of the Church that the Church has managed in a good way ever since the Reformation - in and of itself longer than that, but at least since the Reformation on the basis of today's premise. There's nothing to the right of, so what the Church thinks about this question will be very important in our further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e508	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e511	This is a big day. For SV's part, this is a day that we've been looking forward to a long time, and it's a joy day too many. The government has now presented a bill that equates lesbian, gay and heterophilic love. It's a long step on the way to a Norway that doesn't discriminate because of sexual orientation. The bill is a victory for love, a victory for strengthening children's rights and a victory for marriage. The joy is that there is a majority of the population for this. On this issue, the people go ahead, and then the politicians come forward. There are many who have been fighting for years for lesbian and gay rights - many are sitting in the gallery here today. There are members of the different parties, there are organizations, and there are many individuals who have the credit that we are now dealing with this change of law today. What I'm proud of is the SV's clear position and driving role in human rights issues and in the fight for lesbian and gay rights. SV has made various proposals to improve the rights of lesbians and gays over many large-scale periods. In my big time, SV has this story: In 2003, when dealing with the family message, SV promoted by signing proposals for gender equality and legal partnership. In 2003, when examining the Biotechnology Act, SV of Olav Gunnar Ballo promoted proposals to provide lesbian equal opportunities to heterophilic women for assisted fertilisation, without any of these proposals being endorsed. SV further promoted, by Siri Hall Arnøy and signed, in 2004 and 2005, a private bill on a gender-neutral marriage law that has now been called the ‘common marriage law’. In the post-election government negotiations, the proposal was incorporated into the Soria Moria declaration. I am happy, very proud and humble to have been involved in promoting such a proposal. I know Siri's sitting at the mall and cheering. This is to be a day of joy, because we expect this proposal to now have a majority in Odelstinget. The proposal also provides for the right of homosexuals to be assessed as adoptive parents, lesbian couples to be granted the right to assisted conception, and children born into lesbian conditions are granted the right to two legal parents from birth. The proposal from the Government also opens up the right of church and religious communities, but not the obligation to consecrate lesbians and homosexuals. This means that it will be up to the Norwegian Church and the Church meeting to change the liturgy, so that priests in the Norwegian Church can also celebrate two of the same sex. I think the time is overdue for the Church to extend an inclusive hand to lesbians and gays who want a church wedding. The traditional attitude in the Church has helped to maintain discrimination against people based on sexual orientation, and the Church will continue to do so - until the liturgy changes. It is important to point out from the SV that it is not intended to force priests to commit homosexuals, if it is not compatible with their own beliefs. There shall be a right of reservation, as other professional groups have in such matters. Marriage is a good legal framework around living together and families with children. SV is pleased that the Government will guarantee gay and lesbian rights, support gay and lesbians in living openly and actively against the discrimination they have suffered and continue to be exposed to. Community marriage law is an important and necessary change, not least because it strengthens the legal rights of children and guarantees children two parents. This government is very successful: in 2004 and 2005, the divorce rate was at the top level, i.e. under Bondevik II. In 2006, the divorce rate fell and it continues to fall. In 2006, the highest fertility has been recorded since 1991. I take it as a clear sign that this government's family policy is working. [[Laughter]] Community marriage law will facilitate more marriages and more children. - And the greatest of all is love. I agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e535	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e538	First, a very small comment to the representative May Hansen said about discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation. Now it's not just gay people who have sexual orientation, so there's still a lot of discrimination because of sexual orientation in Norway. As far as this law is concerned, we both know that we are champions of children's rights, the representative Hansen and the undersigned. What about the children's rights to have knowledge and knowledge of their biological parents before they are 18? The representative is a midwife and should also know the importance of knowledge and association with biological hazards. Is it okay that the biological origin becomes a seed and a parentheses, as we've heard in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e546	It is quite right that SV is concerned with children's rights, and we believe that this change in law now gives children equal rights in line with other children in Norway who grow up with a parent, who is adopted, or who lives with two parents of the same sex. The representative Woldseth also knows -- we've been in this committee for a very long time -- that in the last period, the government actually gave the majority of known donors in Norway. This means that when we now open up for assisted fertilization in Norway, we actually give children of lesbian rights to know their origin when one is 18. That's absolutely right. But it's also the case for heterofiles. Heterofile also receives assisted fertilization. If we are to follow the rhetoric of the Advance Party, the Advance Party must be against adoption and against assisted fertilization for heterophiles.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e553	Like the representative Hansen, I participate in the jubilant groups. But in this pan-egyrian agreement, we also have an obligation, I think, to respect those who think this is difficult. These are very good reasons for thinking that this is difficult. We're talking about attitudes that are deeply rooted in faith, in deep and long traditions in relation to the perception of nature's order and of its importance for how we behave. For us, it has been very important that we show it respect by central paths, and by central paths, we show that in a complex, modern society that gives space, we have room for all. That is why we wanted to grant a right of reservation for health professionals. I think it would be interesting to hear a view of this from May Hansen, which itself belongs to this group. Why should health professionals not be able to reserve themselves on these questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e558	It is absolutely right that I am a midwife and have the right to make reservations in some cases. In fact, I do not believe that it is necessary to grant a right of reservation for health professionals in this case, because they are now to be equated with heterophiles and lesbians and their treatment within a system called health care in Norway. It's a big system. Health professionals should not participate in this type of treatment, we know that. So there's no problem for people employed in Norwegian health services not to be involved in assisted fertilization of lesbians if you don't want it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e563	I noticed that in May Hansen's speech, the majority of the people of Norway rely on what is happening today. What we can probably establish with a reasonable degree of certainty from multiple measurements is that the Norwegian population is very divided and divided roughly in the middle of the vision in this matter. So to my question: The Norwegian Christian Council, which represents the breadth of Norwegian Christian life, has asked in connection with this treatment to investigate mandatory civil marriage. In the open hearing, the representative May Hansen was very concerned with compulsory civil marriage and asked several questions about this matter. Then I ask: what has changed for SV and for the representative May Hansen, since she has not followed up her positive attitude to this at the hearing, and now chooses - even in the post - to run a confrontational line against the Church where one hopes and asks that the Church should take this responsibility in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e570	I can't say that an invitation to the Church is a confrontational line. There are an incredible number of people in the Norwegian Church, and we also heard that at the hearing, which is positive about consecrating lesbians and gays. With regard to the civil marriage investigation, we have heard from the speeches here today that it is not that we have had a majority for a civil marriage. It's about an investigation. SV has made proposals on civil marriage many times, and it is probably only the Left who has supported us in it. We want primarily a distinction between state and church and a civil marriage for all. But we've just made a deal in the Great Council in relation to the state church, where you claim to still have a church of the people, and that's the largest wedding institution we're going to have. In fact, we believe that the background to this proposal is excluding lesbians and gays from a church wedding.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e577	I would like to continue there, because I understand that SV has not got its ideal model. It often happens when you have to cooperate with other parties. In this case, which is an important matter, the centre party has been allowed to stand free. Then I do not understand why SV is not allowed to vote for an investigation of what they basically believe. We would like to link civil marriage to this matter, but the investigation contained in the proposal had received a majority if SV had been allowed by the other government parties to vote in favour of it. So why didn't you fight for it? Why didn't you want to figure out the model for which your sail is basically for?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e582	It is not that we were not allowed to do so, but we believe that the investigation should have been promoted in connection with the agreement we have just had in relation to the state church. I am a bit in the mood that the Left has gone into this rhetoric which was initially used by the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, in fact to rule out the Church's taking the position of consecrating homosexuals and lesbians. This law is about equality between two people who love each other, in order to enter into a legal marriage. The proposal here on investigation had not led to a civil marriage. It had only led to the Church leaning back and saying that we do not take a position on this. It doesn't want SV, and it might have been okay that the left had supported us in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e587	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e590	The Christian People's Party wants to keep today's marriage law. We will therefore be voting against all proposals from the Government. I think there are a lot of people far beyond our voters who agree with us. This debate on new marriage law is marked by the fact that there are people who want to stigmatise and suspect their opponents. It may seem that we, who are opposed to the proposal for new marriage law, want to regulate homosexuals away from society and tacitly accept discrimination. It's both sad and innocuous. It's sad because it creates a picture that there's a disagreement about whether it's okay to discriminate against homosexuals, which of course it's not. It is incalculable because the Christian People's Party has repeatedly taken a great deal of distance from any discrimination against homosexuals. Many homosexuals experience discrimination at work, at school and by buying housing. For this reason, the Bondevik II Government provided for a legal ban on discrimination against homosexuals in the labour market and in the rent market and for the establishment of its own representative to follow up the discrimination cases. The Christian People's Party will ensure a good framework for commitment to life for all, regardless of whether they are heterophiles or homosexuals. This is about the rights of adults to good frameworks around their lives and the right to be met with respect for their choices in life. We believe that this has been done in today's legislation. We want to keep the marriage law for marriage between men and women and the partnership law for living between two of the same sexes. So over to children's rights: the Christian People's Party is committed to ensuring that all children have good contact with both parents, regardless of whether these are biological or not. When a child is born into an established partnership, the Christian People's Party believes that we must ensure the child's rights of good contact with both parents. Therefore, we supported the Government's proposal to legislate on the right to parental leave and paid leave for adoptive parents in registered partnerships. I feel the need to clarify what steps we have taken to support the living conditions of children and homosexuals in this regard. I have no doubt that a gay couple living in partnership can offer a good framework around a child's growth. There are many good caregivers in our society who cannot be considered adoptive parents, among others. heterofiled congregates. In the event of adoption, society must try to maximise the optimal growth conditions for the child. The Christian People’s Party believes that an adopted child should be entitled to both a mother and a father living in a stable relationship. Children are more than three times more likely to experience a broken life in a lesbian partnership, and they also miss a father. Saying no to equalizing heterophiles and gay couples in terms of adoption is not about discrimination, but about putting children's needs at the centre. There is no human right to have children, but it is a child's right to have parents. The Christian People's Party believes that a biological father can only be replaced by another caregiver when this is necessary for the best of the child, and not systematically and systematically, for which a majority of the committee is in favour by opening up assisted fertilisation of lesbians. Some children already have gay or lesbian foster parents, for example. because a relative and his or her partner have assumed parental responsibility for the child in the event of the death of their parents. These children have a special connection with the couple, and the couple should, in the view of the Christian People's Party, be able to be considered adoptive parents if this proves to be in the best interests of the child. This proposal, which involves a fundamental change in one of the most important institutions in society, namely marriage, which is one of the most important frameworks of child growth, should, of course, have been thoroughly investigated before being promoted as a legislative proposal. The Christian People's Party therefore proposes to send the matter back to the Government for a better investigation. There is no human right to marry. In Sweden, they have looked at this and made an investigation called «Marriage for couples of the same sex - Marriage issues ». The conclusion of this investigation is clear. The human rights conventions in question do not give gay couples any right to marriage. Nor is it discriminatory to maintain two different laws for heterophilic and homophilic living. It is also stated in the government bill. Comparing the proposal for a new marriage law with the partnership law becomes meaningless. The proposal for a new marriage law is primarily a reform that places the needs of adults at the centre of their children and pushes their children's rights aside. The child’s growing-up conditions are influenced by whether the child has a mother and father as role models in his/her daily growing-up environment. The bill states that: ‘children should have the right to know their biological origin. This may have psychological and medical significance for the child. ’ The member of the panel, Heikki Holmås of SV, has stated: ‘It is unnecessary to justify the importance of a father. ‘... Why will the Government grant lesbian rights to artificial conception and thereby deprive children of the opportunity to grow up with a father? The Christian People's Party believes that children's Conventional rights to both parents must be protected. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child Article 7.1 provides that, as far as is practicable, the child shall have the right to know and care for his or her parents. Article 18.1 provides that nations which accept the Convention on the Rights of the Child shall follow the principle that both parents have a common responsibility for the child's education and development. According to the proposition on page 11, Article 7 applies to the right to know their biological parents. A right to assisted reproduction for lesbians will lead to more children growing up without their biological parents. Children who have known the donor will have the opportunity to know who the biological danger is when the child reaches the age of 18, but children who have unknown donors will be deprived of the right to know their origins. The government also legitimises the use of unknown donor by allowing the lesbian partner to become a co-mother even if the unknown donor is used at approved clinics abroad. Such development clearly does not believe that the Christian People's Party is in the best interests of the child. If Odelstinget today gives lesbian rights to assisted fertilization, the Christian People's Party will substantially support the proposal of the Right and Left, which is distributed in the Chamber. This proposal seeks to ensure that the sperm donor is known. The supporters of the assisted fertilisation of lesbian claims that this has to be opened up in Norway, otherwise lesbians will settle with unknown donors abroad or buy semen on the Internet. We cannot allow Norwegian legislation to deprive children of the right to grow up with a father because someone has children over the Internet or on a foreign trip. The government’s legislative proposals leave a number of unanswered questions as to the role of father in a child’s growth. For many years, the clear political signal has been that fathers should be more concerned with their young, regardless of whether they are broken lives or new families. The signal in the government's bill does the opposite: if two adults take care, father is redundant. I'm not proud of everything the Christian People's Party has said about gays up over the years. I'm sure there's a lot of people who've been hurt. I'm sorry about that. At the same time, one must have respect for the fact that the Christian People's Party, in line with all other parties and society in general, has changed its view of both homosexuals and their right to live in commitment. That is why I believe that today's debate in this Chamber must focus on what is at issue today, on the political changes proposed in the marriage law, the adoption law, the biotechnology law and the children's law. The changes are extensive, and they deserve to be highlighted far more thoroughly than in the government's legislative proposals. When such a large opposition in the Storting and a large opposition in the people ask for a postponement and ask for a better investigation, I believe it is alarming that we get no. It is always reasonable to take a good look at a case when you are going to make changes that have major consequences. There is obviously the Government and the majority in this Chamber not concerned. Finally, I would like to raise and strongly recommend proposal No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e648	The representative, Bjørg Tørresdal, has drawn up the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e654	History repeats itself: the Christian People's Party has at all times drawn and opposed all changes in laws that would ensure justice and equality for homosexuals. In 1954, when decriminalization was first proposed, the Christian People's Party considered homosexuality a threat. In 1972 the Christian People's Party wanted further criminalisation. When the partnership law came, the Christian People’s Party believed that it would weaken the position of marriage and that it was an accident. In 1996, Kjell Magne Bondevik promoted a document No. Eight proposals to repeal the Partnership Act. Now suddenly the Christian People's Party embraces the same law. Now the common marriage law will weaken the position of marriage. The Christian People's Party has been wrong every time before. Can the representative explain why we should now believe in the Christian People’s Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e661	All parties in this room have considered the Partnership Act. Those who have turned the most are those who today say that the Partnership Act is discriminatory. The Labour Party said something quite different when the Partnership Act was adopted. I am pleased that today we have a debate in this Chamber on what is the current situation. The current situation is that a law is proposed that will change children’s rights and growing-up conditions. We want to keep the partnership law and the marriage law, and we recognise these laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e668	This is a day of joy for many. I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Christian People's Party for their important contribution to the adoption of common marriage law today, by the former leader of the Christian People's Party, Valgerd Svarstad Haugland, was the one who opened up the opportunity for single people to adopt - an important contribution that opened the eyes of most to the paradox that monogamous homosexuals can be considered adoptive parents, but not homosexuals living in partnership in a commitment relationship. I have a question for the representative Tørresdal. Christian People's Party writes in the setting: ‘These members agree with the Directorate that children are best placed to grow up with both a mother and a father, and that this is particularly important for adoption children. ‘... Why does the Christian People’s Party not see the paradox that they were at the head of the adoption of lonely people, while they are now opposed to the adoption of homosexuals in a committed life?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e680	The law says today that it is possible for lone parents to be regarded as adoptive if it is at the ‘best of the child’. There are some examples: if a single person is closest to the child in a situation where parents, for example: dies in an accident, it may be right to open the door for a lonely person to adopt. If the parents die, and the uncle or aunt standing closest to the child, is gay and living in a gay couple relationship, the Christian People's Party supports this couple's adoption of the child. We always have the best of the child as our starting point for adoption.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e689	The Christian People's Party has said in the setting several times that the best thing for a child is to grow up with mother and father, and that the biological origin is very important. In fact, there are quite a number of children in Norway who do not live in that setting. Many children live with one parent, many children are adopted, and many children are born into lesbian relationships and partnerships and live with two parents of the same sex. Is not the Christian People's Party concerned about sending out a signal to very many children in Norway that the family they live in is not optimal or good enough? Are you not concerned that not giving assisted fertilization in Norway actually excludes children from knowing who is the donor?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e698	When adopting a child, it is society that will facilitate family life. There are many reasons why children grow up with one of their parents, but when society sets rules for adoption, they have to choose the best way. They will choose a father and a mother and facilitate the conditions for all other family constellations, and of course through kindergarten and school make sure that all children meet carers of both sexes. When adopted, society is responsible for facilitating this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e703	Today, the Christian People's Party is marking resistance to the right of lesbian women to be judged for assisted conception. The lot has previously expressed that this view has nothing to do with care. I respect such a view, but only if the vision is basically concerned with the use of donor genetic material by artificial fertilization, regardless of the orientation of the recipient. My question to the representative of Tørresdal is therefore: can the Christian People's Party combine the vision they have in the matter that we are dealing with today, with the possibility of assisted fertilization using donor genetic material? What arguments do they have to maintain that possibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e710	As the law is today, assisted conception is given to couples who live in a stable condition. It supports the Christian People's Party. There will be a father and a mother for the child growing up. We don't want to extend this possibility beyond the relationships that apply today. This also gives me the opportunity to answer May Hansen's other questions, namely why we won't support assisted fertilization in Norway where we can get to know the donor. We want a child from birth to know who the biological origin is. With a known donor, it's 18 years old. We support the proposal from the Left and the Right that the donor should be known.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e717	The Christian People's Party, together with the Advancement Party, writes that 'the family is the basic unit of society, and the main arena of belonging, proximity, and community', that committed life 'gives the best framework for the growth of children', that'many children experience good growth in untraditional families', and that 'the rights of children are to be fully respected, regardless of the family form in which they grow up'. With this in mind, I would like the representative Tørresdal to explain why the Christian People's Party will deny many people in Norway exactly this. Why should not two women who love each other and want to have children together be allowed to make sure that their child grows up in the safe framework of the family, and with rights both at mother and co-mother? The Christian People's Party is well aware that lesbian women today have children at Danish fertility clinics or in other ways. If the Christian People's Party can accept this as a reality, it is very difficult to understand why they do not want to ensure that these children and these women are given the same rights as the rest of us. Why won't the Christian People's Party put these children first?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e726	In all legislation, we focus on children and children's rights. This is going to turn the whole debate upside down, because the issue that we are dealing with in the room today is about adults' rights to have children. In matters where we discuss children's rights, we want all children, regardless of their parents' origin, to have equal rights in Norway. That also applies to our immigrant children. But then it is the child who is the starting point for the debate. Today, the rights of adults are on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e731	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e735	In the Central Party, all representatives shall be released in the processing of this proposal. That means that my positions in the setting represent my vision alone. This means we're right, because this for everyone in the Center Party is about important value issues, but with different approaches. Personally, I am pleased that with the changes we are making today, we have a legal framework that is adapted to the present time we are living in. We point towards the goal of achieving an inclusive and equal society. Many young people grow up with gay parents, and they familialize the same acceptance of society as other families. Many young people live their daily lives with one caregiver. Often, the child has a family and a network where both sexes are represented. I think it's important that all the older siblings because their kids have good role models of both sexes. But in any case, it's not just our sex that defines us as human beings and makes us give our kids different life experiences and values. All parents add their individual perspectives to the pups. For me, it's impossible to look at my gay and lesbian friends as less worthy caregivers than what my wife and I are for our son, just because they have the same sex or have another sexual orientation. When it comes to care, life shows me that laying is irrelevant. Very many people live their lives outside the core family mother, father, child. By arguing for different rights according to a narrowly defined social norm, a family is less wanted than other families. Worse still, society still allows for different legal rights for young people defined by the sexual orientation of parents. Today, equal legal courts are being introduced for all kids in Norway, and I am very happy to be there. Marriage as a worthy and obligatory framework around love and life is a good one. Exclusion of homosexuals and lesbians from joining the same institution will be perceived as discriminatory. What we're doing today is strengthening marriage. For me, it is important that Kyrkja is given self-government on this issue, and that there is a right of marriage and no commitment, as it is in the proposition. I don't believe in coercion in this context, and I respect that this is too many issues of faith. Some point to the challenges that gay kids face today and will meet in the future. If young people encounter difficulties because of parental orientation, they are created by the environment and not by how the family is put together. Is a fear that kids should be bullied, is the first thing to learn our kids not to bully. It's not very many years since one could experience that if one was born out of wedlock, one was born without the same status, the same dishes and the same possibilities as other kids. The grief such a life could bring, write from attitudes in society, and not the lack of a marriage contract alone can lead to it. What the Storting is doing today is sending a loud signal to the whole community that discrimination and bullying of lesbians and gays are unwanted and perpetrated. And most importantly, we send a signal to all kids that all kids, parents and families are equally worth it. Finally, I would like to put forward a proposal No. 9, which is distributed a little late, on behalf of the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party, Left and myself.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e756	The representative Trond Lode has drawn up the proposal he himself referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e761	As the representative Lode said, he joins most of the law. This day there was an advertisement in one of our national newspapers where there were some quotes from the 2005 election campaign, among others. a quote from the Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa in the Centre Party: ‘You do not need to be bothered by the scareshoots at all that a red-green government will introduce gender-neutral marriage legislation. [[...]] ‘... There was also a quote from Trond Lode: ‘We are not in favour of a gender neutral marriage law. ‘... This was written in Stavanger Aftenblad on 22 August 2005. My question to the representative Lode is whether he can confirm these opinions. And in that case, what does he mean about politicians who lie or don't keep what they promise? Is this suitable for weakening the confidence of politicians and creating political disdain?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e780	I can first confirm that this is the correct quote from me. I can also confirm that the quotation of Magnhild Melting Authority Kleppa is unpresist. I used to take self-criticism that I saw a little too easily on this issue in 2005. That's what I'm standing by. There is an increased level of knowledge and a closer relationship to the issues that have made me simply change my position. At the time, I stood for what I then said, and today I stand for the fact that it is right to introduce a new marriage law.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e787	The representative Trond Lode just said that he had changed his position regarding the marriage law. Has he changed his position regarding the family and a child's right to have a mother and a father? It's been so political that you work very hard for fathers to get more time at home -- with paper school, right to absence from work if the child is sick, a lot of things that make it possible for children to be more with their father. And there's a lot of quota arrangements for the job in kindergarten and school that make children who like to live with their mother meet more men in the growing up. Has the representative Trond Lode and the Central Party now had a new view of the need for a father and a man growing up?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e794	My view of young people's need for a father has not evolved much. What I see as important is that it is the responsibility of all parents to give their kids their good role models by both sexes. In pediatrics they try to stimulate more men to become pediatrics -- I almost said. I think it is very important no matter what sex parents have, that they are responsible for giving young people good role models of opposite sex if they are not in the core family of parents and children.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e799	The centre party has been committed to maintaining the strong church of the people, and has said in earlier debates that the left's model of separating civil marriage and the blessing is in the process of weakening the Church. For a short time, married the Crown Princess, or actually most defined here in the Chamber as the Council of State for Transport, Liv Signe Navarsete, first remarriage, in order to get his marriage blessed in the Maritime Church in London. Is it so that her way of marrying somehow weakens the Church?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e806	I doubt that individual cases weaken the Church. But it's true, as the representative Skei Grande says, the centre party is busy keeping an open and broad people's church. We see that too many marriages in the Church are an important part of their relationship with the Church. Over 50 pst. of the marriage is concluded in the Church. We don't want to make it more heavy and difficult for the Norwegian people to get married, as we feel it will be by first introducing a civil marriage and then, if you want a benevolence in the Church, a new operation - that is, double work to get married. That's not what the Center Party wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e811	There is respect for a representative who is clear and clear and without shame tells the Stortinget and the voters that he has lied in the election campaign and that he has changed his mind. He also says in the exchange of lines with the Christian People's Party that he has had the same view of Father's position with regard to children all the time, and that he has not changed his view of that area. Then I guess he's always thought that Dad's position is nothing more than a sperm, that Dad doesn't have to participate in the child's growth, and that you don't have to know your father until you're 18 years old. This is the case at least when you read the comments that the representative is included in the setting we have for consideration here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e818	I don't want to be involved in the rediscovery of the Knudsen representative when it comes to Father's importance and my communication with the outside world in the last election campaign. I don't think I lied. That was my opinion then. I was honest then. This time I also had to know my stomach: what is it right to do in this room? And then I had to change my vision. I expect the representative to refer to the proposal on known sperm donor. There I inform the committee that I was probably going to support it in the hall. And I'm going to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e825	We have received many enquiries from the local people of the representative if we can talk to the party. I guess we've said that they get to do it on their own, to see what they have. When I hear both the post of the representative and the replies here concerning the anxiety for the Church and the consequences for the Church, I ask myself a very clear question: why not press the Central Party much more to get an impact assessment of this matter before it came out? It's a complicated thing. What will happen if religious communities say that we no longer want to dedicate? Has the Central Party and the Government Party considered what will happen to the entire marriage institute in our society?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e833	As I have said before, the Centre Party will appear to be looking if the wedding institute that is currently being handled by the Church falls away. We thought it was an advantage to maintain a popular commitment and a breadth for the Norwegian Church. In this case, the Central Party does not have the power to have a common position, simply because we have a ceiling for both faith and doubt in our party, and therefore we have found it necessary to free our representatives. Thus, our cases have not been the subject of initiatives in either a positive or a negative direction before the Government presented its proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e840	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e843	It's a historic day. I probably don't agree with those who believe that there are major changes that are being made, but there are very important changes that are being made, because I'm actually born, without breaking my age completely, in a country where homophilis was subject to the penal code, and where the country's bishops thought that lifting it would lead to loss for the country. Until now, homosexuals and lesbians can experience violence, abuse and exclusion from society. It's actually no longer back than when we celebrated the peace in 1995, that homofiles were thrown out of the train at Karl Johan because they wanted to mark the 15,000 who were killed in concentration camps because of their laying. That they were thrown out of the train was met with understanding in 1995. That's the historical tradition we're actually dealing with today. That's why I'm very proud to be a Left Member, and that's why I'm proud of the Left Tradition. It's not just about Røiseland, the Interior Missionary and the Grand Representative of the Southland, who fought for the removal of the homophilic paragraph of the Penal Code. Traditions go back much further than that. I am also in the tradition of Castberg, the left-wing man who fought through the castberg children's elves, who ensures that all children have the right to inherit their father, sail if they are born outside marriage. People said the immorality was going to float in society if Castberg's laws were passed. What was Castberg's principle was never to punish children for the choice of adults. You should never punish children because adults have made any choices you don't agree with. It was the principles Castberg got through. This has taken a long time. It should, too, because it takes a long time to change people's attitudes. I'll get back to it. I probably wish the government had also taken the time to a process where you looked at different models to solve these challenges. We in the Left are today very comfortable with our vote. What we are voting for today has been in the Left's programme of repeated elections, so we don't feel that we've been forced on something that's gone too fast. But I wish that the Government had at least taken the time to investigate different models of marriage law, including the Left's model, for many feel uncertain that we should impose beliefs that they don't have, and they had actually been better secured with the Left's proposal for the marriage model. In our model, as we programmed at the previous big shots, we separate the bourgeois part from the religious part. That doesn't mean you're getting married twice. That means that one place you do the paperwork, and one place you have the ceremony. A model exists in a number of European countries. This has been tried out well and well in many other countries, so that's something we know works. For those who are anxious, as the representative Lode, that one should not have the same solemn mood when going up the church floor, it is actually such that the sail of Prince Felipe of Spain had filled out the papers before he went up the church floor, it was that he went up the church floor, which was shown on TV. Nor is it a matter of imposing a civil ceremony, for the ceremony must people choose the sea. What matters to the Left with such a model is that then you give to the state what is the state, and to the Church and the religious communities what is theirs. Marriage is made up of two things. They consist of a binding legal agreement between two people. It's a fantastic legal package - the Minister of Justice is sitting in the hall and just nodding - with inheritance rules, divorce rules, yes, there's actually been a withdrawal right in the system. And if you have children, it's also submitted that you should negotiate and try to agree. It's a fantastic legal package. The legal package has been made by the state. It's the state's. And the state must treat all citizens the same. The second part of marriage consists of, is the ceremony--the blessing, for us belonging to the Norwegian Church. That blessing is also important, and I would urge the Church to put more emphasis on it, because I perceive that the Church today has abdicated a little, that it is the juice they lean on, and not the actual weight of the blessing. The consultation in the committee showed that there is an authority that the Church should take back for its own part. No one has the right to have children. Of course not. But when it comes to adoption, people have the right to be evaluated. Today, homosexuals and lesbians can be both visiting homes and foster homes, and it would be quite foolish if they do not also have the opportunity to be evaluated for adoption, when it is right for the child. I have also received an e-mail saying that you are afraid that someone will be bullied. It's a pretty incredible basis to make laws and regulations in a society. Think of everyone over all times having used it as a principle! Imagine what kind of societies we had created then! Imagine the tolerance we had been able to build in society then! It had become a bad society. In fact, such a society I will never join and fight for. Kids come to life. Kids are there. And I want us to bring Castberg into today's law by saying, "We're not going to assess whether it's moral right, or whether it's done the way we would, in relation to how children have become, but when the children are there, we're going to make sure they have the rights and legal security that children should have. That's what Castberg fought for in the 1880s. That's what we have to fight for today. That's why it's important for the Left, when we're changing the biotechnology law, to do it on the basis of one motivation: that children should have the right to know about their biological origin. We want to use the law to stimulate as much as possible. These children are going to come, anyway, and I want it to be as arranged that these children have the legal rights they can have, and have the right to know who their biological father is. Finally, I want to say two things. I remember the first really open home I met. I was 17-18 years old and I was in Young Left, which has always had its home quota, and I remember talking about why it gets so outraged? Why do you get so different? I remember him saying, when you have to break so with society and with your network in order to be who you are, you are no longer bound by the norms of society. It was a very big aha experience. What we're doing today is we're actually saying that we want everyone to be treated equally, but that also means that we should be able to expect the community's standards to apply to everyone. Community standards say that we now expect everyone to have the opportunity to enter into commitments, but we also expect the Community's standards to be there. Equal treatment for all also means the possibility of belonging to the Community in respect of equal standards. I think that's where the key lies in relation to both what kids will be, and to what obliging living will be. There is no threat to marriage that more people may enter into commitments between themselves for their lives. It's actually very good for marriage that more people do it. I had actually wanted that very, very many more in our society had concluded the binding agreements, and had had the opportunity to create the framework around the kids that we are now doing. I believe that fighting against the fact that someone is not going to enter into the binding agreements is actually what is fighting against marriage. Marriage should certainly be fought for as a structure of society. Commitment agreements between people are always an advantage to society. Yes, the family structure is also an advantage for society, but then everyone has to have the opportunity to enter into the binding agreements. But we're not done with this. The letters I have received in the last few days - and they have become much worse in the last few days - show that there is a lot left. There's a lot of prejudice left out there. There's a lot of incorrect information. There is quite a lot of condemnation, and there is quite a lot of discrimination. So, if we adopt an important law today, it's actually quite important that the prejudices expressed through what I've got in my mailbox, and which probably also other deposit representatives have got, are also combated. Finally, I would like to mention proposal No. 6, with a strong desire that more than SV, no than Left - SV dropped out; they should have been there, I mean - vote for that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e875	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has drawn up the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e880	At first, I want to commend the representative Skei Grande for a very good post, which I think drew up very important historical parallels, and which were very principled. She also gave in her post the impression that she thought the government should take a little better time, which she has also expressed in her remark. In the comment she says, among other things. that ‘a more thorough process could lead to the adoption of the law by a wider majority in the Grand Duchy’. I just have to admit that, with the exception of the Biotechnology Act, I think we've got a very broad majority in the Stortinge for the law. But I'm just wondering if Skei Grande knows something that I don't know. If we had a NOU and a broader investigation, does she know that it would have changed the view of representatives either in the Christian People's Party or in the Advance Party in this matter? Because isn't it that this is first and foremost a fundamental question where you hadn't changed your mind if we had any investigations beyond what we've already had?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e887	As the representative Gjul can see, we have actually brought with us the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party on a proposal to conduct a civil marriage - that is, a very fundamental distinction. I believe that the left's model of separating the bourgeois part and the religious part has made it possible that the anxiety that exists in the populace that one should now press on the Church a position that it does not have, or push through something that one does not have, might become considerably less. I have a positive human vision in my mind, so I also have faith in the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party in this matter, that it is possible to do some things. I had hoped such a process, if the government had determined that model really in advance, could actually have been with and assembled the Storting about a cleaning up between jus and church, and that we had actually got a model that no one thought was so important to fight against.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e894	The representative Skei Grande said something about never punishing children for choosing adults. The fact that adults choose to live in a gay couple relationship and have children is a situation we have. At the same time, we also have a significant majority in the position that believes that children do not need to know their fatherly origins until they are 18 years old. Isn't this exactly how to punish the child for the choices of adults by depriving them of the right to know their father in adulthood, with the positive input that a male role model can have for children's growth?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e899	No, I think it's the representative Knudsen who takes away these kids' rights. These kids are going to come anyway. Taking from these pairs the possibility of getting assisted fertilization in Norway, where sperm donors are actually known, takes from the kids the opportunity to actually know their biological origin. If the Progress Party is trying to have a principle approach to this, it's rather strange that heterophilic couples like to get this, and it's not to the detriment of the child's rights to know their biological origins that they don't get to know it until they're 18. But the fact that lesbian couples can get it, and the kids can't know it until they're 18, is a big threat to the child's rights. Here there is a considerable inconsistency in the position of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e904	We had a very unclear line chord change here between the representative from the Right and me instead, so I am now trying again. It is such that lesbians and heterofiles are discriminated against by the Right and Left in the setting by paying lesbians for insemination, while it should not be heterofiled. At the same time, you're very concerned that there's a known donor. They say, ‘Clinic in countries with anonymity for the semen donor shall not be considered as ‘approved health care’ according to the requirements. ‘... Here, discrimination against heterophiles and lesbians is raised by the fact that lesbians have to pay for their insemination. It actually means going on the Internet or finding other solutions. This also means that children in Norway are more born with unknown donors because it is believed that someone will pay for it, while others will not pay for it. What does the Left think about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e916	Unfortunately, I cannot give an as entertaining answer as the representative Thommes managed, but the principle is quite simple: heterophilic couples also have to try a little. We believe that lesbians also have to try a little, then by paying what is not a large sum to get the opportunity to try to get pregnant in the usual way by means of insemination. We don't think that's going to be much of a burden. This is actually a non-discrimination attempt on our part. In fact, heterophilic couples cannot come and get assisted conception until they have tried a little, some years. So this is actually an attempt to equalize and not an attempt to discriminate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e921	The left is concerned with equality. We have heard that it is a lack of equality to refuse the lesbian right to have children using assisted conception. My question is: why is it discriminatory to refuse lesbian rights to assisted conception, but not lack of equality or non-discriminatory to refuse gay rights to have children when using, for example, children? surrogate mother? Isn't this a logical flaw if, you think, everyone should have equal rights to the possibility of having children?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e929	Now we believe that this gives opening for adoption, which actually makes it easier for gay couples to have the opportunity to have a child too, if that's what you want and it's also best for the child. The left is very opposed to the use of surrogate mothers because it opens a completely different moral perspective. It's about using the female body to sell it to produce children -- as a sale. We're very sceptical about that. We think it's based on a woman's vision that we don't want to base on in the law. That's why we're very critical for the use of surrogacy, even though we mean that the other things we open up here don't have the moral perspectives at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e936	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e939	This is a historic day. The government is proposing for the first time to eliminate all discrimination against homosexuals in the law. The homosexuals will no longer just be good enough, they will be as good as you and I to marry. These questions have been raised in this hall many times. In 1972 it was about decriminalizing homosexuality. The Christian People's Party's representatives then spoke of this as a threat, especially to youth, and felt that it was important to avoid young people developing into permanent homosexuals because of past experiences. When the Odelstinge dealt with the Partnership Act 16 years ago, this party, which is now talking about poor investigation, said that partnership can be an accident in the longer term. It will have devastating consequences for society, lead to norm resolution and rootlessness, and have major, far-reaching consequences for society. Now it is this law that is defended by those who once argued with unparalleled consequences for society. Fortunately, many people have changed their mind on this matter. The representative, Mr Tørersdal, excellently explained that. I never think we had a situation today where Anders Gåsland had been treated the way he was treated when he stood up as the gay leader of the Christian People's Party Youth. Others have also changed their view of marriage. Lode and Meltveit Kleppa have explained it. It's just that when these battles have stood in the Stortinget/Odelstinget and in society, there are some who have always held back, some who have spread fear, while others have gone ahead. Now I hear that the Christian People’s Party has changed its view of homosexuals as caregivers. They say that gay people are as good caregivers as us. If they're as good caregivers as the rest of us, what in the world is wrong with them? Because, in fact, there are many people in our society who have been walking around and feeling shame for some of the finest things in life for years. It is time for all of us to settle the prejudices that homosexuals and lesbians have met for many, many years. In this debate the opponents have shown that they are not just opponents of assisted fertilization. They are also against marriage being valid for those who are gay and lesbian. The progress party says this is about the biological ability to reproduce. But are those gays biologically unsuitable for marriage? is my question. This matter is not that the question has been poorly resolved. It's not about the UN Children's Convention. It's not about short and bad time. It's about the following: a few days ago, there was an advertisement in the evening post: «Rikshospitalet 15.5: Vakre Tobias and Ingrid arrived early, but well. A warm thanks to everyone at the obs. post, birth, childbirth and the neonatal clinic for help and support. Karin and Rona Eriksen Andersgaard » The advertisement tells us that little Tobias and Ingrid came to the world too soon. Fortunately, both mothers and children are doing well. They are still at the Rikshospitalet, while Odelstinget is discussing this matter. Unlike other advertisements that have been highlighted in the discussion on common marriage law, this ad is not based on a constructed future scenario. The advertisement is not a disrespectful invention full of shell words used to rake down on gay and lesbian parents. Karin and Rona's ad are real. It was in the Evening Post last week. Now the kids are four weeks old. Then someone says they're putting the kids in the center. In the gallery, there's a girl named Sofie. She is 18 years old, raised with two lesbian mothers. When someone says they're against assisted fertilization for the sake of the children, Sofie says, "Stop calling your own prejudices of concern to me." Sofie emphasizes how happy she is in life. She's a very common girl who demands respect from those who are going to decide in society. For Sofie and her mothers, this is a historic day. It is also a historic day for little Tobias and Ingrid, who came to the world on 15 May this year. With the new law, mothers and children get security and legal framework for their families, and their families are as much worth as other families in our society. This is also a day when we finally establish that homophilic love is as much worth as heterophilic love. Then I hear that this law has been poorly worked out. Many countries have implemented such a law: the Netherlands, Belgium, Canada, Spain and South Africa. Sweden, which in this discussion has been drawn up as an example of some who have wanted to go further and investigate the matter even more, has thus introduced assisted fertilization for lesbians. The Prime Minister of Sweden is aware of this issue. We break with millennia-long traditions when two of the same sex can marry. We're breaking with traditional perceptions. We're setting up a new practice. I have respect for the fact that it may be difficult for someone. But most of us have changed their view of homophilia over the years. This is a historic day for very many. Many liberation struggles have been waged with great resistance. Whether it's about those who grew up with a lonely mother, to whom the representative Skei Grande has explained, about women's struggle, about ethnic minorities or homosexuals, all these liberation struggles have been met with great resistance. But it has been important for some of us to be in the front for everyone to be treated in a non-discriminatory way. Three years ago, Spain introduced a common marriage law, which included adoption for homosexuals. At that time, the prime minister of the country, José Zapatero, defended the law like this: a decent society does not humiliate its citizens. A decent society treats its citizens with respect. The law was not popular when it was adopted in Spain, but three years later it is widely recognised for this law. When he was asked why he introduced something the majority of the people opposed, he replied: To me, the most important thing in a democracy is not to do what the majority of the people want at all times. The most important and fundamental thing that must be put in place in a democracy is that no resident is discriminated against. Odelstinget will today have the opportunity to vote on a proposal where we equate heterofil and homofil love. By law, we recognize gay and heterophilic living as equally valuable, based on the same values. That's how we make it easier for gay and lesbians to recognize their orientation. There are many young people around Norway today who do not feel ashamed and who can finally feel that they are totally respected by society. It's important for the individual. It's important to us as a society. That's the only way we get a decent society.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e976	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e979	In this case, we hear from the representatives of the government parties that the matter is very well investigated, while everyone else, perhaps except LLH, believes it is poorly investigated. I will refer to my written question to the Council of State, no. 1145, where I am told that the department under the leadership of the Council of State is currently monitoring attitudes towards homosexuals, including the bill on common marriage law. It's a work done in collaboration with the University of Bergen and some polling institutes. Work shall be completed on 15 September 2008 for, as the reply states, ‘to acquire knowledge as part of the decision-making basis of the Ministry’s responsibilities’. When you say you have a well-established case in this area, it seems strange that you are conducting an investigation that will conclude in September, three months after we have completed the legal procedure here.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e988	My department is responsible for anti-discrimination. That is why we carry out a number of studies to identify views that are discriminatory. It's about women. It's about ethnic minorities. It's about disabled people, where we got an important law in Odelstinget yesterday; we've done research on this, because we wanted to include people with disabilities in the workplace. And it's about gay people. We do this because we need an action plan to combat all forms of discrimination. This is a very central and important work, in which I hope that the Progress Party is also involved. Homofile has been discriminated against for a long time. We are doing everything we can to combat discrimination against homosexuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e993	Hopefully today's decision will solve too many problems. But there's one area that we need to pay a little bit more attention, and it's about stebarn adoption. There will still be a current issue. There will still be a need for good arrangements, including: men want that need. We know today that there is enough room for improvement in how the sterilisation process can be done. Even with the changes in the laws we are making today, there is still a great need to ensure that adoption processes are optimised, as effective as possible and - let's say - targeted. Will the Council of State contribute to this? Will she still remember that this is actually very important for those that apply--a lot?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e998	The question of adoption procedures has been up in this room quite many times during the spring. Dryersdal from the Christian People's Party was in on it. There are many -- regardless of this matter -- waiting for children, and there are long processes. I have therefore taken the initiative in an investigation where we are going through the entire adoption field. Clearly, many people are waiting a long time, and we have to look at this in a broad perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1005	When the Council of State acceded to and inherited this matter, I remember her saying that she would have respect, and that she had respect for the fact that others meant something other than her in this matter. It was unfortunately little left to look at it in the post that the Council of State made, and I think it might not be worth it that the greatest historical joy in the matter was to have the Christian People's Party. But it is one thing that both the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party have worked together for, that is, the importance of father and father, is especially important for children. The government has disappointed many areas, including: not complying with the paper cover of up to 10 weeks and giving all fathers the right to paper. Now she also disappoints fathers again, because the bill says that ‘children should have the right to know their biological origin. This may have psychological and medical significance for the child. ’ Why would the government then grant lesbian rights to assisted fertilization, and thereby deprive some children of the opportunity to grow up with a father? And why don't gay men get the same right? Isn't it just discriminatory to grant lesbian rights to assisted conception?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1014	I respect the fact that the Christian People's Party has different views from those of the government parties in this matter. I also think that the Dryersdal presented this in an excellent way. She said in this discussion that there are many times that the Christian People's Party has been wrong about these questions. I think we all owe the gay people that we take some self-criticism on this day, even if we're going to celebrate it, because as politicians, we haven't helped to give them enough respect over many years. With regard to the question of knowing its biological origin, this disagreement between the Christian People's Party and the government parties is not about access to sperm donation only by lesbians. The Christian People's Party is also against sperm donation to heterophilic couples, so that's to the extent of a fundamental disagreement. But I believe that with today's laws we give gay and lesbians the same rights as others. It's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1021	I was not in the vicinity of getting any clear answer from the Council of State, so I will try to ask my question again. I have to ask then: if this matter is so well investigated, why has the Ministry of State hired the University of Bergen and the polling institute to investigate what the Norwegian people think about the law and about gay and lesbian? If that question becomes too difficult to answer, can she try to answer the question that Gunn Karin Gjul was unable to answer earlier today, namely, why is it so good to have both sexes in school, in kindergarten, in corporate boards, in municipal politics and in gambling policy, and that Dad should take the paper issue, so it is not important that children of lesbians should be able to know their father in adulthood?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1029	This study carried out by the University of Bergen is not part of the investigation work on a new marriage law. It is part of our work against discrimination against homosexuals in general. This has nothing to do with this matter. With regard to the view that the children will suffer, and that today we have a good enough law, it is today that you can adopt children if you are lonely. However, at the moment of partnership, it is automatically inappropriate to apply to become an adoptive parent. Erling Lae can search, he's good enough for it. But at the moment he enters into partnership with this pastor, this pastor himself is at the heart of the problem. Then he is unfit to apply for adoption. I cannot say anything but that it is discriminatory, and that discrimination in today's legislation will be eliminated.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1036	The council said that the Christian People's Party was against -- I think I heard -- anonymous sperm donation. If that's right, that's right. If she said sperm donation in general for heterofiles, it's wrong. This is a difficult thing. It is a difficult matter for many. I believe that the Council of States is right to have a level of this debate that is completely different from that of the Council of States itself. Having humility in relation to what you have meant and said, I think I can apply to everyone. But my question to the Council of State is: they've been in a hurry about the matter, and they haven't wanted to have an impact assessment of what happens if religious communities drop their commitment, what happens to all the challenges that we see this case will bring. Is it such that the government was afraid to get answers that would go against what the government wants to adopt here today, therefore could you not take time to either examine the consequences or get a good investigation of this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1045	This matter has been very well investigated. There has been a review of what marriage is, based on a philosophical approach. There has been a review of theological church assessment in connection with the Norwegian Church's understanding of marriage and cohabitation. There has been a child law investigation on the consequences of common marriage law. The international consequences are also very well established. I think there is a lot that needs to be done in order for an investigation to make the representative Eriksen and I agree on this issue. I think it's about a conviction. I think we can figure this out for years. I think that the Christian People's Party is going to change its view on this issue -- like many other things -- as they have done in relation to the Partnership Act, as they have done in relation to decriminalisation. But on this question, I think further investigations will delay this important matter, which is about equality of love.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1052	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1055	The road to today has been a long and hard fight, which many have fought for all of us. Today, we are taking this fight for rights a step further. Today we should thank all those who have fought this battle, who have enabled us to stand here today and adopt full rights for homosexuals and lesbians. We're all going to get ready to fight, because we still have a lot of fights left to fight before gay and lesbians are really treated in the Norwegian community. We know that many homosexuals and lesbians experience worse living conditions because of attitudes, discrimination and hate crime in everyday life. This is what we are going to do. And since we have to put this discrimination to life, we must ensure that the state in the law does not discriminate. For if the law and the state discriminate, how should we expect society to treat it in a non-discriminatory manner? A decent society does not discriminate against its citizens. Today we equate heterophilic and homophilic life. We affirm once and for all that heterophilic and homosexual should not be discriminated against, that love is greatest, regardless of whether it is between woman and woman, man and man or woman and man. And, not least, today, we decide once and for all that all children should have the same rights from birth, regardless of who gave birth to them. Today, we state that the Norwegian State is a democracy in the right sense of the word - a system based on the equivalency of all citizens, where we have equal rights and equal obligations, regardless of who we should love. Many people talk about the need for investigation. There are certain things we don't need to figure out. We don't need an investigation to establish that gay and lesbians are as good -- or as bad, for that matter -- caregivers as they are heterophiles. We don't need an investigation to establish that everyone - and I mean everyone - children should be entitled to the same rights, regardless of their parents' orientation. If someone needs to figure that out, it must be because they are in doubt about whether all children are born equally, and that is a question that we can never ask with respect for ourselves. The Christian People's Party and the Advance Party have dreams of the mother-father-and-child-family. The fact that they have dreams about it, in the name of propriety, cannot be allowed to go out on children who are born, who are born at this moment, and who are to be born by lesbian women in the future. These children exist whether we want to or not, and there will be more. We can't decide that everyone should grow up with a mother and a father. Should we then ban all the single fathers and single mothers around? Norwegian children, in the name of propriety, should not suffer from the lack of rights and stamped b-families as a result of the Christian People's Party's and the Advance Party's dream of the family. While we're standing here today, Norwegian lesbian girls and women are probably sitting on the Säfflebussen or on the plane on their way to Denmark to be fertilized, to get pregnant. Fortunately, Norwegian law cannot stop them from doing that. Norwegian law cannot prevent children of lesbians from being born. What it can do is to encourage these children to be conceived and born in a safe environment with the same rights as any other child. It is sad that the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party are voting against these children having these rights, that they refuse to deal with reality and put their own principles ahead of the best of Norwegian children. When we are now allowed to marry within the same law as heterophiles, more people will choose to enter into commitments and not have to live with a b-equity. Marriage will be strengthened. It's not like there's inflation in marriage. It's not like if the representative Dahl and I are allowed to marry -- not with each other, of course. [[muttering in the hall]] Today, we are taking another step towards the society that the entire population of Norway deserves and wants, the society we dream about and strive for every day in this room, otherwise, a society free from discrimination, a society where diversity flourishes and love is greatest and celebrated. Congratulations on the day, everyone!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1074	The representative Trettebergstien says that we want a family with mother, father and children. We live in the real world, we also, we know it's not like that. But we actually want, we dream that children have the right to both a mother and a father. Reality may be a trip with Säfflebussen or the plane to Copenhagen, but assisted fertilization is still not allowed in Norway - if you never travel so much with Säfflebussen to Copenhagen! I've been listening to the debate. They've talked about these kids -- that these kids are coming, and that there's more of them coming. Yeah, that's probably it, but is it the needs of adults or children that we're talking about? Is there a need for adults to become parents, to be able to give birth to children, or are they already thinking about the consequences of putting a child to the world through assisted conception abroad and how it is experienced for that child when it grows up in Norway? It should not be a special surprise that the Progress Party is opposed to this whole bill. The motives for our resistance are more, and the arguments are many. For me personally, however, it will be the child who is the most important - the child and the child's right to both know their biological origin before it reaches 18, and to have role models - good role models - of both sexes. It's not to hide that this makes me very sad, what we see now. There may be several reasons why the homosexual movement wants to change the marriage law. I think the most important argument is not getting the opportunity to get married in church, but that there is the possibility of getting assisted conception and being considered as adoptive parents who have been the driving force. Then it's hard to understand that LLH denies pushing children in front of them in the fight for recognition and acceptance. I read that the LLH -- the National Association for Lesbian and Homophil Liberation -- has changed the leader, and that she should have mind-building work as her most important and priority task in the next few years. In fact, I also hope that you add that you should be a little schooled in respect of the opinions of others. I also noticed the comments of the Council of State that those who disagree with the Council of State are throwing down on gay people and discriminating against homosexuals. Nor does the Council of State show respect for other opinions. Because it is probably not possible to get away from the fact that the representatives of the Progress Party who take part in debates organised by the LLH are not being heard. You'll be met with bowing and hateful comments. Well, you demand respect, you also deserve respect. So let me start with the beginning, that's assisted conception. The Party has supported the provision of medically incapacitated couples with assisted fertilisation assistance. When we talk about couples, we talk about men and women. That someone might interpret it as that there are medical reasons why lesbians can't have children, we'll protest about it. As you know, Norway is the sixth country that is now likely to introduce some form of gender-neutral marriage law. The Netherlands, Belgium, Canada, Spain and South Africa were before us. None of these countries allow assisted fertilisation, and two of the countries also do not allow adoption. So it's not automatically because if you get a gender-neutral marriage law, you automatically get the right to have children either by assisted conception or by adoption. So why is this done in Norway -- if you hadn't been fully aware that it was just the opportunity to shop children who were thinking behind, and to design a family? We heard during the hearings on this matter that LLH said clearly that sperm cells cannot comfort if children cry, but co-mother can. Seed cells can't read books on the bedside, but co-mother can. This attitude towards the biological father is almost like making him a parentheses, and I have a great understanding of the hundreds of e-mails we have just received about this statement. You don't get any closer by saying that if you had been able to produce sperm chemically, men and fathers would have been unnecessary. Statistics also show how well it has been with children growing up with gay parents. And it seems like these children have been doing a good job. But the problem is that these statistics are based on a very small number, which are used in the empire, which obviously also reflects in the survey. To have credible statistics, the underlying material must be based on a slightly higher number than the reference to which these surveys refer. The proposal also opens up the possibility of travelling to land and carrying out assisted fertilisation, a country where sperm donors are not known. That means taking away from the child every right to find out who is its biological origin. This clearly violates the Children's Convention. And I'm surprised that we, who are so concerned about what every other country is doing, and how terrible it is that they break different conventions, don't care about either human rights or conventions in terms of our own laws and regulations. So for adoption. After Sweden gave homosexuals the opportunity to adopt, we know that there are very many countries that will not give any room for adoption to Sweden at all. Because in a number of countries you do not accept homophilis, neither do you accept adoption of your children to land where this is possible. It concerns Muslim countries, and countries that are major in adoption to Norway, such as India and China. What worries me about this is that some of these countries also close the possibility of heterophilic couples in Norway to adopt. And that's sad, because there's enough of kids who need safe and good growth conditions, who don't get the opportunity to get good parents in Norway. I mentioned at the beginning of this article that it is quite possible not to open up for adoption even if you should have a gender-neutral marriage law. In fact, we should think about that, especially because this becomes nothing but a symbolic decision for the homosexuals, all the time when none of the countries of Norway is using as adoption countries, and with which the Norwegian adoption associations cooperate, applicants who live in a gay life are approved because the form of life is not accepted. As mentioned earlier, in some countries it is even prohibited. It was also mentioned during the hearing, and I have also heard this in the Chamber today, that it shows that lonely can be gay when you adopt, but as soon as you move with someone else, it is not accepted. What has been mentioned is that no one has asked if you were gay, but that is not quite right. If you are a lone seeker and want to adopt from e.g. So China, you have to sign a self-declaration that you're not gay. So you can tell truths and half-truths and then all of a sudden it becomes a completely different meaning. So what worries me is that the fight for the gay rights is most important and goes at the expense of children. That is why I do not want to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1102	About eight years ago, there was a national meeting in the AUF where I was, and I remember very well that I tried to make a flaming statement as to why the gay people would also be given the right to be judged as adoptive parents. I remember Jens Stoltenberg was in the hall. There was a great deal of applause for the AUF's policy, but it wasn't necessarily the Labour Party's policy at the time. It shows that there has also been a gradual recognition in the Workers' Party that society is changing, and our view of gay life has been constantly changing. But I am still happy to belong to a movement and a party that each time the struggles have really stood, have stood in front and taken the right positions, and that we today vote in favour of common marriage law as a final confirmation of our fight against discrimination against homosexuals in Norway. The opponents of this law point out, among other things: that by voting in favour of this kind of law, we reinforce what they refer to as dissolution trends in society. I don't want to go well because there's necessarily some kind of dissolution in Norway -- I think it's about a more open and more modern society, where people get to live as they really do. But I agree that one should absolutely worry that there are children today growing up without safe frames around them. If you're going to create more secure frameworks around children's growth, you might want more people to commit to a love-based and lifelong relationship and not keep anyone out of it. You should, if you were worried about the breakup of the family, instead of going on a torch for marriage, for an obsessive life where people stand before society and say, "Yes, I choose to live with this man for the rest of my life. It will, of course, create secure frames around the growth of children in that relationship. In the 1990s, we adopted the Partnership Act in this Chamber. It was a long step in the right direction for an equivalent society. Today, we experience that some of the opponents of the common marriage law say that the partnership law provides a good enough legal basis to organise gay life. The representatives of the Christian People's Party have addressed this, and I have to say that there are emerging new positions on the part of the Christian People's Party - happy enough, but alarming. The new defence of the Christian People's Party for the Partnership Act requires some clarification, and I see that Dagfinn Højbräten, leader of the Christian People's Party, will have the floor afterwards, so I will challenge him on the following: Is it such that we can now expect that in 2009 the Christian People's Party will go to elections to reintroduce the Partnership Act whose common marriage law is being passed today? And with the intense commitment it has been in the matter in the last few months and in the Chamber today, we should probably also expect that one of the main things of the Christian People's Party will be the reintroduction of the Partnership Act and one of the Christian People's Party's election campaign slogans in 2009. I would like to see that clarified. If not, the defence of the Partnership Act will be a limited affair. Others in the debate that have taken on the role of opponents have pointed out that the so-called homolobby, a small minority of people in Norway, has almost deceived many of us who are going to vote in favour of or against this case afterwards. The Progress Party Ulf Erik Knudsen goes a long way in suggesting this in his article earlier today. And the newspaper Our Country today also puts question marks in an advertisement today about the Stortinget, i.e. the nation's National Assembly, being cheated on the occasion of the case. I haven't been tricked. Throughout my childhood and youth, I have trodden down the premises of the Salvation Army around the country. I still have my faith in God. The Salvation Army and other religious communities in Norway are doing a lot of good, but I think I've got a different picture -- the arguments against -- and I've managed to land at my own value point in the case. That is what this is all about - taking children's rights seriously and giving a very clear signal that discrimination is unacceptable in Norway. I am absolutely sure that my position and position towards other trailers of this law will turn out to be right afterwards. Finally, I am unable to humiliate myself after hearing the contributions of the Ulf Erik Knudsen of the Advancement Party, where he almost takes Muslim men's view of the matter to the profit of his vision. It was touching to hear! It's very rare that we experience from that farm, where you always talk about having to adapt to the norms and rules of Norwegian society -- that's what we hear. But not in this case. Then we're about to adapt to forces that we don't want to compare with. I think it's going to be very special. As I said, finally, I am proud that we are now introducing this law. It's a day of joy for love. It's a happy day for marriage, and I like to go on a torch to strengthen the marriage position in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1121	Let me begin by saying that I have a great deal of understanding and respect for the fact that, because of religious conviction, one can come to a different conclusion on this matter than the one I have come to, and the great majority in the Right has arrived. But for my own part, I'm not in doubt about what's right. I want to start with a familiar story. It is not an attack on anyone, but a reason why I have come to the conclusion that we should adopt this law today. On December 1, 1955, in Montgomery, South America, there was a colored woman on the bus on the way home from work -- you know the story. The bus stopped and more white passengers arrived. They were asked to stand up and move further behind. Three of them moved, but Rosa Parks did not. She was seated, and for that she was arrested. This action may be known as one of the most important in the American Civil Rights Fight. Why is this case relevant today? Well, because one can object to a common marriage law that it is unnecessary, all the time we have a partnership law that respects the rights of homosexuals. In the same way, you could argue that Rosa Parks should get up and leave her seat to the white passenger, because she had come home anyway - the bus had led her where she was going, and that was the whole purpose of the journey on the bus. If she had to sit or stand, maybe didn't mean all the world, you could argue, because the bus would bring her home. The point, of course, lies in the pointless discrimination. Rosa Parks broke up with a system that discriminated against people for the sake of discrimination. She did not rebel because she was tired of her legs and wanted to sit. Today we adopt a law where the main point for me is not the practical consequences of the law either. The main point is that we say that homofiles are as much worth as heterofiles, and that they should be treated in the same way as heterofiles. Because that's not the case, even if you can believe it from some point of view, that gay love arises because of this law. Nor is it the case that gay life arises because of this law, nor is it the case that my marriage or my love for my husband will be less tomorrow if we adopt this law. No, it's primarily about recognising that we're not going to discriminate, and that we can treat homophiles the same way as heterophiles. Discrimination against homosexuals continues to occur in Norway. Violence against homosexuals continues to occur in Norway. But today we say clearly from the point of view that homosexuals are just as much worth as everyone else, today we are helping to change the way many still think about homosexuals, and today we are taking an important step towards a non-discrimination society and without violence against homosexuals. And to those who are afraid of men because of this law: at least it's not my view that men are just a reproduction instrument. Men are going to be needed and will be loved by many heterophilic women in the years to come. The other important thing about this law is that we have a different starting point from the Right side of what the Government has had in relation to the question of lesbians' right to get artificial conception. Our starting point is not that this is discrimination, because we don't think it's right that someone has the right to have children. Our starting point is children's rights. It is in line with why we went against the fact that anonymous spermatisation should be allowed in Norway. We therefore believe that when there are a lot of children being born and they're going to be born - we can fight it that way, but it's a reality that there's going to be a lot - it's the children's rights we have to put in the high seat. That is why we need to ensure that this can be done under legal, registered and good arrangements - within the law in Norway. Many people are trying to tell me that this is not conservative. What's conservative, we can probably discuss. But I think standards of mutual commitment, norms that make us take care of each other, and norms that make society encourage everyone to participate, are the important values behind the family. When society changes, conservative solutions also change, not values. Then we can change and include more in the institutions, but we don't change the value that is based on love and that is based on the mutual obligation. That's why this day is an important day for the whole of Stortinget, and it's an important start on creating a much more inclusive conceptual device in the Norwegian community.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1136	The representatives of the central party in government and magnification are, as you know, freed in the matter we are now discussing. It's hard. It challenges large ethical and value issues both for individuals and for lots. Exclusion means that each of the representatives of the Central Party in this matter follows their personal conviction and decides whether they will or will not support all or part of the bill. In the debate on common marriage law, I and the party have been concerned that we should have deep respect for the diversity of views on the subject. We know that attitudes and views have changed over time and with more knowledge and transparency. This applies both in the Centre Party and otherwise. Fortunately, most people who have contacted me have understood this, and regardless of their personal position, they have given a solid acceptance that there may be different values and different choices in this matter. But unfortunately, there are also some who obviously have not had the necessary respect for the fact that people can have different views about the theme. Here I have to admit that I have sometimes taken the initiative to ask for the terms ‘tolerance’ and ‘love’. As long as there are two laws and two names of heterophilic and homophilic living, there will be room for different treatment or discrimination. Many young homosexuals today experience that it is difficult to recognize their sexual orientation. The fact that the state recognises through legislation that gay and heterophilic living is equally valuable and based on the same values, I think will help to reduce stigmatisation and by doing so make the process of recognizing their orientation easier. Marriage is the institution that provides the best and most predictable framework for love and fellowship between two people. A common law will give more opportunities to make use of the marriage institution. Common legislation will thus help to strengthen the position of marriage rather than weaken it. Marriage is both a legal agreement whereby one undertakes to care for one another, and an agreement that according to Norwegian tradition and custom also has a clear religious aspect. I, along with the majority in the Group of the Centre Party, would like to support the proposal that gays and lesbians should be able to get married. It is in the best interests of children that they grow up in safe and stable frameworks that marriage gives, regardless of their parents' sexual orientation. We now establish a right, but not a duty, for church/faith communities to dedicate gay couples. For the Central Party, there has been a general consideration that the Church must be free to assess whether it wants to marry like-minded or not. We have put heavy emphasis on the independence of the Norwegian Church over its own liturgy. So to the discussion about adoption. The overall objective is to provide children with safety and stability. The primary purpose of adoption is to provide a good and lasting home for the child who needs it. The best interests of the child are a fundamental condition of the adoption law and will continue to be essential in the handling of the adoption request. There's nothing to prove that homofiles can't be as good parents as heterofiles. However, I would like to stress that it is not a human right for adults to become parents, but that all children are entitled to parents. Neither do today's laws give heterofiles any right to have children. I and a majority of the representatives of the Central Party support the bill to give homosexuals the right to be judged as parents by adoption. In the Centre Party there are differing views on the proposal that assisted fertilisation can also be offered to lesbian couples who are married or cohabited in matrimonial relationships. I myself support the proposal. I am pleased that the proposal on assisted fertilisation for lesbians in Norway will ensure that children are given the opportunity to become acquainted with their biological origin at the age of 18 if they so wish. Most foreign fertility clinics used by Norwegian lesbian couples today offer assisted fertilisation with anonymous sperm donors. Opening up to assisted fertilisation for lesbians will give rights in line with heterophilic marriage and marriage-like cohabitation. I believe it is right that health care employees should have a right of reservation when, for reasons of conviction, they are unable to carry out their work in the context of assisted fertilisation. This is something that I believe is important independent of a common marriage law and the discussion about lesbians will also have the opportunity of assisted conception. The Central Party’s Majority Election Programme states that all shall have equivalent opportunities, irrespective of gender, orientation, level of function, marital status, place of residence and ethnicity. The aim is an equal society in which women and men share family responsibilities and equal opportunities to participate in the development of democracy, society and business. That's why I'm going in to introduce a common marriage law. I hope and believe that today's debate will be a debate in which respect is shown for the fact that these are very difficult value issues for many, and that there are therefore different views on the legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1162	When, in 1971, Arne Kielland took up the unreasonable provision in the penal code that homophilis was forbidden, Stortinget felt that he was a courageous man. And it's really weird when you read that debate today, how brave and forward-looking he was, and how he dares to stand up and fight discrimination. This is now 37 years ago, and I really think the whole story of equivalency for lesbians and gays is an encouraging story. For it shows that society has changed very much from the change in the penal code when the ban was lifted in 1972 - it was not for women, for women did not have sexuality at that time [[muttering in the hall]] Until 1977 it was a disease diagnosis to be gay in Norway. Then we got the Partnership Act, and I was one of the biggest representatives elected in 1989, who helped promote the first proposal of the Partnership Act. It wasn't an easy birth. The proposal was through several sharp votes in Stortinget. At first there was a sharp vote on whether it was to be sent at all to the Government, and then it was finally adopted with one vote's overweight in the Creation. In Lagtinget at the time, Prime Minister Jo Benkow said: ‘I see this draft partnership law in many ways as a kind of hymn to love life within the marital framework — that’s how it works to me. ‘... Today it is gratifying that this partnership law, which was a parallel to the marriage law, but not entirely - not when it applied to gay and lesbian relationships to children, and not when it applied to church marriage - is now replaced by what is full equality. It's a happy story that it's possible to fight for equivalency. It's a story of people who were completely invisible when I grew up, now visible. It's a story that young people who wonder who they are, now have adult role models who dare to stand up, are straight in the back, think a lot strange, are gay or lesbian and know they have the same equivalency. What's scary about today's debate is the way those who fight against the last turn use children. Because what we know about children growing up with gay or lesbian parents is that they have it just as nice or as bad as other kids. But they may have one problem in addition, and that's the discrimination and the prejudices that can come from adults who don't settle their own prejudices, and don't think about when they're talking about children. Those who have now been up on the pulpit and in many articles have talked about 'these children', those who in the public debate have talked about produced children as if this was a production that we have to do everything we can to limit, I would ask you to think about it. There are many children in Norway, and although the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party would like the Stortinget to decide that they have one biological mother and one biological father who will love each other forever, the reality is not that of children. And it doesn't matter, if no one decides that they should be discriminated against. What we're doing today is introducing a law in Norway where we say two gay parents are as good as two straight parents. Today we have a law that says that one gay parent is ok, but two is not twice as good, it should be banned. What we're doing today is increasing children's ability to get to know their biological origin, if they think it's important at some point in life. Otherwise, the most important thing we do today, the last round of the campaign, which is to make sure that in Norway you are equivalent no matter what kind of love you feel.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1185	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1188	SV is a lot of people who are very concerned about international conventions. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child Article 7.1. states that the child shall, as far as possible, have the right to know and care for his or her parents. Article 18.1. states that both parents have a common responsibility for the child's education and development. In this debate, we have discussed this many times. My question to the Council of State is: Should one not now just admit that what to do with this amendment is to strengthen the rights of adults in the context of their sexual practices at the expense of the children, and that with clear and open eyes one breaks Articles 7.1 and 18.1.?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1195	I see it quite the opposite. I see that the law that we adopt today strengthens children's rights in Norway. It strengthens the rights of children who have lesbian parents. The alternative was not that the "these" children would not have been born. The alternative would be that they had no opportunity to figure out who their biological origin was. Otherwise, we make it possible by fully recognising the love that is not only reserved for heterophilic couples, but that can also be among homosexuals and lesbians. And in that way, we're securing the frames around what's child's growth. I think it is quite rough, the way in which the Progress Party has used the argument about children in the debate. Because under that argument, there's a sort of perception that children who have gay or lesbian parents have a worse life than other kids. They don't, at least not if adults behave sensibly and stop spreading myths about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1202	State Council Halvorsen beautifully described a changing society and how values are being renewed and introduced into new contexts as society changes. That's also an important point for us. We're seeing a society changing, and we're going to have a law that suits it, that paves the way forward, and that takes care of the aspect of discrimination, be it for children or for adults. One important value for us is that the child should be able to know his biological origin. That has been a very important argument. What we see is that the Government's proposal opens up the possibility that assisted fertilisation in countries that do not have this concern will also be approved in Norway. There's going to be a balance between on the one hand knowing its biological origin and on the other hand being able to get mother immediately instead of having to adopt. For us, losing knowledge of biological origin is a knowledge that has been lost forever. Getting a mother in place through adoption is soluble in a few months. What does State Council Halvorsen think is most important of the two considerations?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1211	Is it correctly understood that the Right is in favour of this matter, is it that children who have been conceived in another way, which then hinders their knowledge of the biological origin, are to be protected by the marriage law other than those who have in the case been inseminated in Norway, and where do you know the biological origin? Then I must say I'm shaken. You can't use the marriage law to punish a child who has a source for which the Right isn't excited. It has to be the opposite. It must be that we make a law that says clearly and clearly that all children are welcome. We're going to fight for an equivalency society, which means they're not plagued by prejudices. That must be the starting point for this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1216	Governments talk a lot about discrimination here. In the context of this law, the majority in the United Kingdom wants to give lesbians the opportunity to have a child, and it is seen as discrimination against lesbians if this does not go through. My question is, what about the children who don't get the opportunity to have a father? This is because they also want to accept, through the law, anonymous insemination abroad, as the government has suggested? This must also be discriminatory for the children. So Lesbian will have the opportunity for children. Children are deprived of the possibility of a father. And what about the gays? They won't have the opportunity for a child either. Isn't that discriminatory to them?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1221	It has never been an option for me to be a member of the Christian People's Party, but today I am particularly grateful that I am not. [[muttering in the hall]] I do not know about one couple who are threatened by the law of partnership that has been passed. Now, the arguments against full and real equality, and I think it's essentially an equivalency question. Now is the argument against that child's position. There are children who have gay and lesbian parents. It's not an argument against a full equality of gay, lesbian and heterophilic through a marriage law. Let's turn it around and say that now we have one job left to do, and that's getting to grips with the discrimination that still exists. All children are welcome, no matter what kind of source they have, regardless of whether we can't track down any biology anywhere. Let's behave so that they know they're welcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1230	I have to be allowed to correct an obvious error in Kristin Halvorsen's posts. It is not that the Christian People's Party intends to propose that the Storting should decide that one biological mother and one biological father should live together and love each other all their lives. Something like that said to the Council of State. That's wrong. We didn't say that. And I can ask the question whether there are prejudices that make the Council of State Kristin Halvorsen attach to us such opinions that we are deleted do not have. Nor have we said that children who grow up with lesbian or gay parents are hurting, or suffering, or not having the same rights. On the contrary, we want all children to be equivalent. All children shall have equal rights. No child shall be discriminated against. This debate today is about adults' rights, and I hope that I get a direct yes or no answer to the following questions: Does the Council of State Kristin Halvorsen believe that having children is a human right?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1239	No, I don't mean that. I don't mean that when it comes to gay and lesbian, and I don't mean it when it comes to heterophiles either. But I react to it being put out as if gay and lesbian are more selfish than heterophilic when they want children. It's just that we want children out of our own wishes, and then we accept them when they come. I have to say that the tone that I think the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party have had in the debate is that yes, there are some children who have gay and lesbian parents. It's a small group, and we should limit it as much as possible, because they have a hard time, and they can challenge both the one and the other. I mean the opposite. I believe that in today's Norway we have come there that we can say quite loudly and clearly from the voice of the Stortinge: All children are welcome. We now ensure that they are treated in a non-discriminatory way through the Norwegian legislation. It strengthens children's rights. It doesn't limit it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1248	I understood the Council's first response to me there that she thought it was as stable and as good and as safe to grow up with lesbian or gay couples as parents as straight parents. I agree, of course there are many capable parents in this group. However, the statistics of the SSB and of the Swedish statistical central agency are unique when comparing the risk of divorce in heterophilic marriage and in lesbian partnerships. It's three times as big in lesbian partnerships, and in gay partnerships it's 1.4 times bigger. There are also research reports from the Police College that say that, in percentage terms, there is more violence in lesbian relationships than in heterophiles. So my question to the council is whether she wants to change her answer and based on the information available, conclude that it is less stable, and that there is more violence in lesbian and gay relationships.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1257	I don't think my own ears. There must be limitations in what is allowed to say from the pulpit of the Storting that spreads myths and prejudices in a day when we fortunately, not thanks to the Progress Party, but thanks to the fact that the Progress Party is in a minority, takes a big step towards more equivalency. What we know from research into children who grow up with gay and lesbian parents is that they have as good growing-up conditions as children with heterophilic parents. If there's anything that could bother those who don't bother other kids, there's prejudice from the surrounding area. And I think the representative Knudsen should work with them a little.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1265	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1268	Today is a great day, as we have the opportunity to adopt a historical law. I will not try to repeat all that others have said in the debate, but I feel a great need to stop a little by the Christian People's Party's argument. In the setting, they write, together with the Advancement Party, that they cannot support such a fundamental redefinition of marriage, and they justify it by the fact that marriage between men and women has deep cultural roots in all societies around the world, and that a common marriage law will break with these historical roots. At the same time, they say that homosexuals and lesbians should have the right to live their lives openly in a commitment to a society that shows respect and that the Partnership Act must be continued in order to ensure the legal rights of this society. Last night I sat and read the position and debate from when the Partnership Act was discussed in 1993. In the setting from then on, the member of the Christian People's Party writes: ‘This member will stress that a gay partnership law does not comply with the values on which our society has been built so far in relation to family and marriage. ‘... And Kjell Magne Bondevik said in the debate: ‘A new special law for the homosexuals will mean something completely new in Norwegian family policy. It will give a strong and wrong signal that marriage will no longer have a special status as a foundation in our society. It could be an accident in the longer term. ‘... In other words, the argument used against the partnership law in 1993 is suspiciously similar to the argument used against the bill today, namely that the marriage institution is concerned about giving more people the right to a firm framework around their lives. And I have to admit that I think it's a little strange that what Kjell Magne Bondevik said in 1993 was supposed to be an accident, and what you were against, that is, the Partnership Act, is being used as a argument today that we can't adopt a new marriage law today. This is not a big deal. The point is that marriage is not weakened - on the contrary. This has been shown by the history of the Partnership Act. Giving someone a right does not weaken the right of those who already have it. Marriage is no less valuable because others are also allowed to marry. And then it's impossible for me to understand that today you cough up the same arguments from 1993 as an excuse for not letting more people get married to the one you love. There is a proposal in the position of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left to exempt health professionals who, for reasons of conviction, are unable to do their work, for example: in the case of assisted fertilisation. The proposal has been amended by the representative of Lode today to ensure that the right of reservation also applies in the case of assisted fertilisation to heterophilic couples. When did it become a problem? Today morning? I have heard that this is an exemption that can be compared to an exemption from abortion. Then I want to say one thing: To perform or not to commit an abortion is about being unable to perform the act because of convictions. But in the case of assisted conception, you don't talk about the action itself, but about who gets help. The original proposal went on to discriminate against lesbian couples, and I don't think the moderation of the proposal makes things any better. These are the same ones that will be hit, the lesbians. I can't understand it any other way, because it hasn't exactly been a big problem for health professionals to give assisted fertilization to heterophiles in the past. And I ask those representatives who really intend to vote in favour of this proposal, to think about it again. That being said, I am pleased that there are so many parties supporting the law that we are going to adopt today. It is a great responsibility for us, as politicians, to go ahead. Today, a majority of us do just that. I also want to extend a great and heartfelt thanks to everyone inside and outside this room who has worked for years to get where we are today. The job they've done will mean a lot to a lot of people. And I'm proud to be one of those who is today allowed to be part of writing history - a story against discrimination and for love.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1289	The supporters of the bill use the broad discrimination argument in the debate. They thus put a stamp on their own legislation to fight. The problem of explanation in relation to the position of the Partnership Act rests primarily on those who fought the Partnership Act and today have given it such a thorough stamp as discriminatory. In my view, this argument is false. The government itself states in the bill, on page 12, that today's marriage law does not discriminate against homosexuals. On the contrary, it is in line with international human rights. Nor has the government given any credible argument that it would be discriminatory to take the consequences of biological facts. A man and a woman are required to become a child. Therefore, the legislator has given this relationship a special status. Heterosexual and homosexual life is structurally different at this point. The argumentation is not just false. It's also boundless. The law reformers will meet themselves in the door every time they try to draw a line. For example, why do we have to do this? are the polygamy conditions being discriminated against? Is it not both intolerant, disrespectful and discriminatory to prevent a secure framework for their love? Why is it only arranged that a couple with two women should get help to have children, and not couples with two men? The arguments of the majority from the legal setting can be used unchanged for this situation as well. And if assisted conception is no longer reserved for those who are prevented from having children for medical reasons, you might also ask yourself, Why stop by lesbian couples? Why shouldn't lonely women who want children get such help? By its argumentation, and by putting the concept of marriage into play, the government launches an experiment that will trigger a series of new questions, new demands and problems of an ethical, cultural and legal nature. Clearly, with the discrimination argument in the sleeve, closer investigation and impact assessment became unnecessary. As the Minister for Children and Gender Equality writes on the Government's websites: ‘The government considered it inappropriate to carry out a broad legal investigation. ‘... The Council of State has rightly said from this pulpit today that the matter is very well settled. It does not correspond to what is on her own websites. Marriage between men and women is an institution that has stood up for a thousand years, across culture, geography and religion. The reform of the law affects the growth of children. The bill systematically deprives some children of the opportunity to grow up with a mother and a father. The law is clearly contrary to the European Convention on Adoption. The law challenges basic principles of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. The law also raises serious questions about father’s importance for children’s growth, considering that father can be replaced by another caregiver without losing anything on the road. State Council Huitfeldt almost ridiculed the Christian People's Party's demand for a more thorough investigation. However, the Council’s own Children’s, Youth and Family Directorates say in the hearing that there is a ‘weakness in the proposal that there is no wider discussion and assessment of whether the proposed changes will be for the benefit of children’. The subject of biotechnology also writes that the law should be better worked out. The government's answer is that they do not find it appropriate to investigate. It is with respect not to report very reliable. In listing other countries' investigations of the case, the Council of State Huitfeldt was competent to mention France which, on its side, found it appropriate to investigate. After thorough processing, they rejected a similar legislative proposal on the grounds that the rights of the child must be ‘superior over the wishes of adults’. The Norwegian Government clearly has other priorities. When the law reform is justified by the fact that today's understanding of marriage is discriminatory, it gives reason to ask what will be the next step. The almost contemptuous mention of their opponents here in the Chamber today is ominous. Can we in the long run accept that someone is promoting a traditional view of marriage in this country? It's discriminatory. Can we, for example: have a church that highlights a discriminatory view of marriage? Can we give state aid to organisations, religious communities and schools that are responsible for the traditional view of marriage? It's discriminatory. I think the questions are going to be many. So far, the Council of State's response has been very vague. Stopping discrimination against homosexuals is one thing we fully support. There should be no doubt about that. But what this law is about is redefining an important institution in society, and it appears to be a major experiment in the field of family and growth. The law's champions have little taken the trouble of building up a reasoning around the actual content of the law. Instead, opponents of opinion have been stamped and led a discriminating rhetoric that has quite far-reaching consequences. You should think about it when you do it. It testifies to an intolerant tolerance with little room for aberrant vision. I think Norway is getting tighter with this law.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1320	You might not be able to say enough today that the Storting adopts a historical law. Today, we adopt a law that will have great consequences for the lives of many individuals. It should be immoral to allow individuals in our modern age to be discriminated against and discriminated against by the blessing of the State. The Greatness will now be remedied in unworthy discrimination and in a human vision that does not belong today. People don't have to be ranked. They shall not be judged or placed in a booth. This is not an experiment that we heard the representative of the Høybrätten just called for. It's about basic human rights, and it's about a human vision. But gay people are supposed to be an exception. They must continue to be judged, they must be discriminated against and they must be subject to harassment. It is strong when it is felt in this Chamber today that gay people are produced as mere egoists, for which we hear the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party are in charge. ‘Biological facts’, says the representative, Højbräten. This is about fundamental human rights. Fortunately, the wise majority in the Chamber today will remove this discrimination. I am convinced of one thing, and that is that the law we adopt today will help to help people accept children who live with gay parents. With this law, stigmatisation will be removed, so that it becomes as natural to live in gay as in heterophilic relationships. Research shows that children who grow up with parents of the same sex have neither had social nor psychological problems. On the contrary, we see that these children are doing very well. We do not have a democratically equivalent society until we eliminate public discrimination. It must be essential that a law does not discriminate, and that sexual orientation has no bearing whatsoever on what kind of person and caregiver you are. Fortunately, we see that the majority of our people today want homosexuals to have the same right to commit and stable marriages, and to have equal opportunity to be assessed as possible adoptive parents. Fortunately, I also see that there are more and more of us who gradually become acquainted with homophiles and see how beautiful, empathetic, warm and good people they are. Then I can't understand that the Christian People's Party is not using the possibilities they have today to look back at what they've been facing in history in terms of the view of homophilis, and maybe could have been a little humiliated and said, "Yes, maybe it's that the interpretation of the Bible, of religion, is not given once and for all, but we see that there's a movement in society that makes us change our perception, too. I believe that the Christian People's Party had stood by this today. I have experienced a lot of different experiences in my path over the years after working for gay rights. I have repeatedly experienced, especially from the Christian People's Party, to be called intolerant because of my views on this matter--for many years--because I have not accepted the resistance and argument of the party. Yes, I would like to call me intolerant, but I do not accept that one with the freedom of the Bible or the freedom of religion - can be allowed to discriminate against people in our society. What the Big One is doing today is taking on political leadership in order to have a democratic society. It's a big day. And our thanks should go to all those who have paid a huge price for many in the future not to experience what many gay adults have experienced.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1339	This is a happy day, a good day for Norway. Today we are invited to remove discriminatory laws, and I like to vote in favour. One of the first tasks I had here on the house was as a case spokesman for a Document No. Eight proposals on partnership laws. The laws have changed Norway to a better, more open and more tolerant society. Norway has become a better country to live in because of the law of partnership. It has solved a legal problem for gay couples, but above all it has an impact on the social debate and the fads of homosexuals. Although we are still experiencing discrimination and stigmatisation of homosexuals, there is no doubt that it is much easier to be open about and live out its lay today than when the law of partnership was signed. Promises work. The resistance to introducing the promise in its time was very great--in fact, larger and broader than what I have perceived the resistance of today's law change to be. There were almost no limits to what negative results such a law would have. The arguments used by the opponents are similar to those used against today's proposal for a common marriage law. The law of partnership would undermine the marriage between heterophiles, it would lead to moral effusion, and it would harm emerging generations, it was asserted that time. But the world is moving forward. One of the most interesting aspects of today's debate is that today there's actually a lot of excitement here in the Chamber of Partnership Laws. Partnership laws, such as inter alia: Blessing tenants in the Christian party, Kjell Magne Bondevik, strongly warn against, now have the full backing of the Christian party. In other words, the Christian People's Party accepts that even the gay couples have needed a legal framework around their relationships. I thought that was very good. But it's not the first time that the Christian People's Party and other opponents of gay rights have protested, for then some years later to join in the changes that others have fought for. I hope that the same thing will happen in this case. Many people have pushed the attention of the children ahead of them in this debate. The risk of stigmatisation and bullying is one of the arguments used. The danger of bullying those who are, or who live, different will always be there. Personally, I have more faith in fighting discrimination and for equality as a means of combating stigmatisation than in preventing equal rights in the law. What is stigmatizing and different is also changing. It's e.g. not so long as being a divorce child or being born outside of marriage was very stigmatizing. I know myself as a trooper in my friend's Tuesday, but who was rejected on the stairs and was not allowed into the company because parents were divorced. For the girl, it was not easy to understand that she would be punished for what parents had done, but for the mother in the door it was parents who were sinners. Personally, I'm not in doubt about who made the greatest sin that day. We have to fight against all kinds of bullying. We do that by holding - we have to take a distance from bullying - not by blocking some groups' rights. Today's law change gives gays the same dishes they have heterofiles, but it also gives children who live with gay parents the same dishes that other children have. In other words, today's law change is an advantage for children, not the opposite, as some claim. Personally, I can see that some people are skeptical about assisted fertilization. But as long as this option exists, in my view, it is wrong to have a law that regulates who is worthy, and who is not worthy, to have such an offer. We also know that practice is that many travel abroad to get this offer. Today's law is discriminatory, and it does not prevent lesbian women from getting assisted conception. The fact that we have rules in the law that prevent people from being considered adoptive parents is also clearly discriminatory. It is not a person's orientation that decides whether to provide care. Homofile may be as good a parent as heterofiles. I am therefore pleased that this open discrimination will hopefully be lifted by the vote today. Some have claimed that this matter has not been well enough dealt with. Personally, I am absolutely sure that the opponents of the law change today would have been equally strong against if this matter had been settled for years. This thing is about values. My value is that they're all equivalent. My value is that the homofiles should have the same dishes and the same duties as heterofiles. My value is that the gay children should have the same dishes as any other child. My value is that one should be against a discriminatory law. My values require me to vote for the amendment of the law today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1367	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1370	I'm sitting in the Grand Stortinges cheap selection. There we deal with issues of assault on groups of people -- assault done in the name of the big society. We are confronted with fate -- people who have had their lives ruined, tattoos that have been forced sterilized, children who have been taken from their parents because their parents are of tattoos. We are confronted with cohabitants who have not received school because of research policy. We are confronted with children who, after the war, have become victims of bullying and harassment, because they have a German father. Everything is about ruined lives - as a result of the narrow-minded majority policy of the big society. Lost lives cannot be replaced, but through the lavish compensation of the Greatness, we're giving these people an excuse for past generations' abuse. Until 1972 it was punishable to be gay, and being gay was associated with great shame. Homophil had to hide his legend, and many of them have had a difficult life. The law we adopt today will hopefully mean that the next generation of politicians will not be asking the homosexuals for an apology on our behalf - because today's homosexuals have not been given their lives in love, have not been shown respect or have received individual rights, as the rest of the population has. What has alarmed me in this debate is not necessarily sneezing and prejudice, but the strong hatred and the strong condemnation we have met regarding the claim of rights for homosexuals. We who stand up for the rights of homosexuals have been declared by some forever lost, and that we will burn in hell. What surprises us is that those who attack in this way, with old-fashioned vengeance, have completely forgotten the message of Christ's love as shown by examples in the New Testament, which is about acceptance and tolerance, and where in Paul's first letter to the Corinthians we find the three pillars: faith, hope and love - and "the greatest among them is love". This new marriage law suggests that all people should be able to live in love.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1381	I will join the cheerleader. And when we adopt this amendment of the law today, there are many who have to be thanked -- not least all courageous pastors, who have challenged us, and who have taken the long and tough fight for gay and lesbian rights. The Partnership Act was an entry on the way to where we are today. That's my answer to the representative, Højbrätten. In political life, SV has been in the propellant - history has shown that. During the period 1997–2001, the SV and the Right majority of the proposal to ask the government received a big message on the living conditions of homofiles. In 2001, SV proposed that gays and lesbians should have the ‘right to be considered adoption parents’, as heterofiles had. Today it becomes a reality. Today, all formal rights for lesbians and gays come into place. Today, we guarantee the children who grow up in these families legal rights. For SV, the struggle for lesbian and gay liberation is part of the struggle for a society without oppression, a society based on solidarity and equality, but at the same time based on the right to diversity - a society based on tolerance and diversity, and where it is allowed to live out its love. If formal discrimination is now lifted, there is still some concern about civil life. Being accepted as an entire human being, regardless of sexual orientation, is a right. But still people live on flight away from themselves -- because of intolerance and prejudice in society. Still, people who are at the forefront of the fight for gay rights, or who show their gay love, are at risk of violence and harassment. There are still fences because of sexual orientation. Therefore, the fight continues for a society where sexual orientation will no longer be a basis for discrimination or exclusion. That fight is going to take place. That fight must also take place internationally - yes, especially there. In many countries, homophobia is punishable, as it was in Norway 36 years ago. In many countries the punishment is harsh and unmerciful. I'll never forget the meeting with the African woman who, at the risk of her own life, worked for the rights of lesbians and gays in her home country. Her prayer was: Protect us who stand in that battle! The government has committed itself to this - and the Stortinget has put itself behind it. We're still working on decriminalising homophilis internationally. We must ensure that the African girl and other voices are heard in the international arenas. Perhaps these courageous human rights activists are inspired by this joyous day when all formal rights for lesbians and gays come into place in Norway. Therefore, in many ways: Congratulations on the day!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1398	A lot of people say this is a big day. It's not -- it's a natural day. Nor is the law passed against anyone, but for some, and above all for children, who need security. Very familiar is in fact divorces the worst enemy of marriage -- not what we adopt today. A number of conspiracy theories have been launched that the law will be passed after LLH or others have tricked the Stortinget and are almost clear on a bill that you should be able to marry the neighbor, the landlord and the postman at the same time on a continuous basis. I can reassure everyone that it will not vote for the Right! The philosopher Monsen has made it possible that what we adopt is certainly demonic. Then I have to say, when my partner, who is sitting in the gallery, and I have watched his niece from a few months old, she has felt security and care, and has had the opportunity to have several adults around her. There are probably not two demons she and her parents have seen, but two people who are happy in her, and who will contribute in her life along with a broad social network consisting of both one and the other sexes, and of qualities. And I think it's a little sad that David has to differ from me in order to give him the opportunity to adopt his own sneeze if her parents die, or that lesbians who have been foster parents for years because biological mother does not care or wants to take care of the child, according to today's legislation should not be able to be judged as adoptive parents. It's for the good of the children, that--jom I said butter! The only demonic these children can fear, are adults' unreflected and malicious advertising campaigns, which are really bullying very many more -- it's bullying all adoptive children, and it's bullying singles, lone parents. I've never seen my biological father, but I've had a stepfather my whole life. There was never a problem. What was the problem, was primarily so-called good, devout people who with clasped smiles had a very need to tell the truth about my mother and why she shouldn't have done what she did. One important reason why this law is passed is that very many people who are not gay recognize the argument. It's a different wrapping, but the content is the exact same. And so, we have a family-political spokesman from the Progress Party who thinks that much of what has come is just commitment, to say it like that. We are referred to in e-mails as traitors, degenerates, that we want to have children raped, and that we have even intended to open the door so that we can get married and live with animal sex - and then I have to say that if that's what you want to encourage by not once publicly saying that this is not okay, I think it's strange that you can call yourself a family policy spokesman. I really want to congratulate everyone. So I hope that everyone, regardless of whether they're opponents or followers, spends time not building up prejudices in advertising campaigns that help bully children. That's what I think everyone should agree to do in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1418	After all the letters and e-mails we received on this matter, I find it necessary to say a few words. That all of us who vote for this law today should go to eternal loss is a human sight that I distance myself from. For me, all people are as much worth, and then it's true that all people have equal rights -- even if they have a different sexual orientation than what I have. The path towards equal rights for homosexuals has been long and crooked, but we have managed to eliminate all legal discrimination during a generation. 36 years ago, homosexual intercourse between men was forbidden, and homophilis was regarded as a mental disorder. It's not many years since most gay people stayed in the closet. There was no openness in society. The few who stood out took a heavy load, with exclusion and solitude as consequences. They felt that their love made them susceptible to the hatred of others. But in that fight, there were also role models. Thanks to these courageous individuals, Norway is one of the world’s leading countries in terms of gay rights. However, ‘homo’ is still widely used as a shell word in Norwegian schoolyards, and some lesbians and gays feel alienated from their own families. For lesbian and gay immigrants, too, the challenges are great. Therefore, the introduction of a common marriage law is important, not least for children in such circumstances. For me, it's important to get a vote for this law, not only as a big-time representative and a fellow human being, but also as a grandmother. I'm proud to be able to tell the grandchildren that if their friends had to be gay, if parents of classmates had to be gay, or if they had to have such a lay, they have a fellow human being -- and a grandmother -- to go to. This is not a debate between generations, although most young people are fighting for the law. I'm an example of the opposite, and for me, the core of the debate is whether gay and lesbian are equal people. The Labour Party has founded this in all debates, and I know that history will give us right through this law. The Labour Party is on the right side - we are in favour of children's rights and human dignity.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1435	Due to the fact that this bill is being wasted - without impact assessments, distributions or the like - there are still a number of unanswered questions and for many also a considerable uncertainty about what future will mean. These include: great unrest in the owners of Christian freshlers. They ask: Will Christians who teach about marriage as a relationship between man and woman be blacklisted and lost state support? If so, the new law endangers both the freedom of the faith and the right of the parent. Without impact assessment and proper distribution, we have little to support. However, I find a bit of comfort in this setting, where a joint committee refers to the following comments during the treatment of changes in the Refreshing Law. It says: ‘Private schools established and driven on a religious basis are able to carry out the training in accordance with their vision and its over-interpretation, as long as other views and Norwegian legislation are informed in this area. ‘... I ask the Council of State to confirm that, on this basis, Christian freshbulbs will still be qualified for State aid, even if they teach in line with their owners' views and their over-interpretation. But also among many teachers in the public school, it is a major concern. They're asking, what now-- do I have to keep close to what's my true and my profound overtonement? I hope that here too, the Council of State will confirm that teachers who are loyal to what is right should still have the full opportunity to communicate that the current marriage law violates their own beliefs. In other words, the Christian People's Party argued that when it is properly taught in the current law and right, there should also be freedom to express personal trust. I really hope that the Council of State is clear that the expressions that are widely used in this debate - tolerance, respect and the avoidance of discrimination - also apply to those who have a different view of marriage than what the Government has. It's truly idealistic and responsible owners of Christian freshmen, and it's really fastening the many capable and loyal teachers who every day are busy doing a decent, good job.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1452	The fact that people have equal rights in a society is a sign of a society where everyone is equally valuable. The fact that everyone has equal rights and equal opportunities is something we're supposed to be proud of. That is why we should also be very proud that we are being allowed to participate in this legislative decision today. It was supposed to just be missing that not everyone was able to get married in the same way, and that they didn't get the same rights when they did. In Norway, there are today very many homosexuals who are open about their legation. That's good. It has made it increasingly easier to get a say in non-discrimination and justice for homosexuals. Nevertheless, we are still told that this is a marginal group. But I think most people in Norway have a friend, a colleague or a family member who is gay, and most of us want the best for our friends. The fact that so many have been so brave and prominent has made it much harder for the rest of society to pretend that there are no friends or family that we are discriminating. I think it's a sign of little humanity when someone can say that they don't want others to have the same opportunity as themselves to express love to the person they love. Many people - homosexuals who are heterophiles - will probably not marry in the future, even if they live all their lives together and maybe have children together. It's okay. Many people think it's best. But the point is that this has to be a choice. We live in Norway, a country where most people can study what they want, choose to be what they want, travel wherever they want. Then it makes no sense that we should refuse to marry anyone they want. In the debate it has been said that this is a law that will weaken the marriage between man and woman. For me, it has never been natural to think that a right is less valuable because someone else also has it. This is a very petty thought, and history is full of examples that some have wanted to deny other rights that they themselves have. But this has never been true. I'm sure there were some people who thought democracy was being watered out when women were given the right to vote, or that there were many who thought education didn't get the same value when everyone got the right to school. Society that is not inclusive but that discriminates and oppresses others, whether on the basis of sex, religion or skin color, is not forward-looking. My Norway is forward-looking and modern. That's why we have to have the ability to constantly change and be more inclusive. That is why we are adopting a common marriage law today. Congratulations on the day!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1465	I would like to start by thanking you for your commitment to the matter and for all the hundreds of emails that have fallen into my inbox in the last few months. The nice thing about the commitment is that it kind of triggers other people's commitment. And all of these e-mails have triggered my commitment to this matter. I would like to encourage all those who have sent me an e-mail to continue sending me an e-mail as a reminder of this incredibly fine day. Then I'll be allowed to extend an even greater thanks to all those who have fought. I wish it was unnecessary to fight this fight. I wanted it to be so that it was equivalised in society. But in the light of history, we see that the fight for liberal justice has never, of course, been ours; there are an incredible number of historical parallels. Unfortunately, this is not the first time that the majority stands in the way of minority freedom. I don't understand and understand that it's possible to be white, a hundred percent functional, heterophile, and live in a marriage blessed by the Spring Lord--and at the same time fighting to deny others the same right to choose their lives. What's unlikely to be good about this day is that when the generation after me grows up, they grow up in a state that has a law that says that every human being is equal to the world, that every human being can marry the one they love, or that every human being can be allowed to choose freely - if they don't want to marry at all, but that everyone has the choice. I'm overconfident that for the generation after me it's going to be a follow-up that people are going to be allowed to marry whoever they want. They're going to think: so strange that they spent so much time discussing something as of course -- the same way we think today that it was strange how women had to fight for voting rights, just as we are laughing at the nose of how we in our close past treated those who have been described as liberating, in the same way that for my generation it is totally incomprehensible that it has actually been forbidden by being a homosexual. In the air today, there is a expectation that a minority in society today will be happy and grateful for having access to the same dishes as the rest of the population. For me, it's turning the whole thing upside down. For me, the point is today: I am so incredibly proud and grateful that I, being a heterophile, will be allowed to live in a society where my gay friends have exactly the same dishes that I have, where our kids -- my or the kids of my gay friends -- will be able to live within exactly the same legal framework, a society where I can choose, so my friends will be allowed to choose. I am so slipping into the day when this is of course. Unfortunately, today it is so little of course that I have to admit that I am relieved, I am happy and very, very proud. Congratulations on the day!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1478	The paradoxes of this debate are in line. Inconsistency is not difficult to find in those who value the family as a social unit, but who at the same time will not include everyone in having equal opportunities to form a family. The same argues strongly for their opposition to new marriage law in the interests of the children. But this too is a strange argument, because it is among other things. in the interests of gay and lesbian children, we adopt a new marriage law. To me, it seems that the minority in principle is opposed to gay and lesbian having children, and therefore, later on, they don't exist. I still have the benefit of hearing from the minority what is good about the legally unclear situation of many children living with today. Many Norwegian children today live with gay and lesbian parents. Now they also get the same legal rights as the adults they live with. This gives these children the legal security that all other children have with the greatest of course. I therefore have problems understanding how it is possible to argue against new marriage law for the benefit of children. Children need safety, care and a lot of love, from their parents and from other adults who are part of the child's life. The ability to care and love has nothing to do with sexual orientation, as some claim to believe. Therefore, sexual orientation is not relevant in relation to a debate on the best interests of children. Many other things we deal with in this room are about distributing goods and resources - material goods. If we give priority to one policy area, we often do it at the expense of something else. But the amazing thing about this case and other issues that are about extending the rights is that it does not restrict the rights of others. A good that until now is reserved for heterofiles is now being extended to gay and lesbian -- and it does not go beyond anyone else. Heterophile – whether they are Christians, non-believers, Muslims or Sikhs – can all continue to live their lives as they have now, for this legislation threatens no one. On the contrary, it makes Norway a more open and inclusive society than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1487	Sometimes someone asks us, why are you really doing politics? There is a wonder behind this question of what is the deepest meaning of all the meetings, speeches and travels that so many engaged people spend their time on. For us who are here, that's not a difficult question. We participate because we believe that man is the engine of society's development. We want the direction of social development to be in line with our fundamental values - freedom, equality and solidarity. But what do these visions mean in everyday life, some people will ask. Do you deliver? - they ask. And someone asks, are you really concerned with freedom and diversity? The representative Knudsen of the Progressive Party claimed that their opposition to this law is a victory for freedom of choice. Then I will answer as Einar Förde did in 1987: does anyone think that Marcus Thrane was not concerned with individual and political freedom when he was in prison to organize small corps? Does anyone think Einar Gerhardsen and Martin Tranmæl were concerned about freedom when they were in prison? Does anyone think Karen-Christine Friele wasn't concerned about freedom when she tried to get homophile away as a diagnosis--or Håkon Haugli, when he started gay and lesbian networks in the Workers' Party? The answer is that the Workers' Party is primarily a movement of freedom. Our concept of freedom differs from the traditional view of the right: we not only regard freedom as freedom from coercion, but also freedom to life. The kindergarten reform gives freedom to combine work and family. The Equality Act gives freedom between women and men, and the Working Environment Act gives the right to free time. We deliver in terms of freedom. This marriage law strengthens marriage as an institution in this country because it is no longer a discriminatory system. It is no longer the case that homosexuals and lesbians are excluded from the majority society. With this law, we follow a long tradition of introducing laws that change society and society's attitudes. A decent society does not humiliate its citizens. That will be the attitude from now on. This is about fundamental rights, for a society that does not have equality with the law, does not follow society and the fundamental values of civilization. The reason for a new marriage law is that we do not want to maintain the discrimination represented by the Partnership Act - we want full equal treatment. We want the minority to be part of the majority. You have heard here today what this law will mean in relation to homosexuals and lesbians. For us, this freedom is in practice. We deliver in terms of freedom - freedom does not come of itself. Congratulations on the day!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1500	Several speakers have tried in their speeches to stamp the Christian People's Party's view on this matter as very intolerant and discriminatory. Unfortunately, both state councils who have spoken in this matter have also presented a vision that is close to the hoarseness of what the Christian People's Party stands for. It is not in my opinion a state council worthy. We note that it has now become intolerant and discriminatory to speak the case of children in this house, but, on the other hand, to legally promote the rights of adults, despite the consequences for the children. The representative Trettebergstien pulled out everyone who today and in the future will sit on the Säfflebussen to meet their wishes to have children. In the Christian People's Party, of course, we recognize the right and the desire to have children, but she avoided the joy of these children's right to be allowed to tell Dad and find her father once in the future. If this child ever finds his father in the future, what will the meeting be like? Have you considered the consequences of what you adopt today? Roots are fundamental to each individual human being, to look back, and to find their roots. There has been a lot of talk about discrimination against homosexuals and lesbians, but the majority in this Chamber are happily ignoring the discrimination against children that we are adopting today. We deprive a lot of children of what is a human right, that is, the opportunity to know their origin. Kristin Halvorsen rejected this quite easily with a sentence--if they will once in their lives try to visit their father. Yes, all experience suggests that man will seek his roots. It will also happen in this context. Children will seek their origin. The representative Karita Bekkemelm also had a powerful attack on the Christian People's Party and demanded humility. But there was very little humility to your own point of view. The fight for children's rights is the minority that, at my discretion, stands for in today's debate. The Christian People's Party is pushing the relationship with the children in front of it, said Olav Aksen in the debate. Yes, I'm proud to belong to a party that has safe growth as the main field of action. We are proud to speak to children in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1513	A common marriage law that equates homosexuals with heterophiles is a victory for love. Essentially, that is what this is all about. What we decide today is that two who are happy in each other and want to live together will be allowed to marry, and that there will be no difference between the love of a heterophilic couple and the gay couple. The right to marry is even enshrined in human rights. The desire to create a family is quite universal. Now that we give lesbian and gay couples the opportunity to do this in order, we also ensure that the children who grow up with lesbian and gay parents are protected by law. They have the same rights as other children, and that should just be missing. When the Spanish Prime Minister Zapatero introduced a common marriage law, he stated that it was time to stop humiliating their citizens. I am pleased that we are now stopping humiliating our citizens by distinguishing between the A and B layers of love. Yes, because the way our law is today, I can't understand it any other way. The Partnership Act was important 15 years ago, but it's time for society to say that there's no difference between heterofil and homofil love. We'll do that with this law. The signal we're sending to young lesbians or gays who think they have something to be ashamed of is important. We know that lesbians and gays are overrepresented in suicide statistics. In fact, I believe that we are in favour of saving lives with this symbolic decision. I'm also wondering how opponents of this law think homophilic love is as great as heterophilic love, but at the same time it calls for a desavuation of marriage to give them the same opportunity to marry. I'm not gonna make it stick together. Was it then a desevaluation of the right to give it to women? On the contrary, giving more opportunities to participate in an institution will, of course, be strengthening it. Do you really think fewer heterophilic couples get married because lesbians and gays are given the opportunity to do the same? Finally, I have to mention all the letters and e-mails that have come into this case. I respect that we have different views, but I'm probably not the only representative who's let himself be shocked by the shape and content of these letters. The opponents of a common marriage law allow themselves a language that hardly allows to be relayed from this pulpit. Many of them have sent letters that have been directly repugnant. Let me say one thing: these campaigns and the attitudes they have made visible have only made me even more confident about how important it is to actually adopt this law. I have also spoken to representatives who have been in doubt in this matter, but who, after the massive and degrading campaign we have experienced from the opponents of the law, have been so shaken that they fully support it. The fact that the people behind these campaigns have not understood this shows how little contact they have with reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1530	The law we're dealing with today, engaged. There's been a lot of people in there, and it's really great. It's great that people get engaged. But I must also stress, as several speakers have spoken, that the e-mails and SMS messages received by most of us scare me. Many of the requests have been directly repugnant. I hope that the law we are dealing with today can further contribute to creating positive attitudes to the homofiles' right to live out their legend. Now the Church meeting is going to change the liturgy so that priests can also consecrate like-minded couples. Luckily, we have many nice and inclusive priests in the Norwegian Church, so I think that reason will prevail at the end of the Church Meeting. «Jesus lived his life in conversation with people. He was in the temple place, in the square, in a continuous dialogue with the world around him. The church must also be in a constant conversation about love, about its challenges, about life's tasks, about the defeats, about society. ‘... I have unfortunately not written this myself. It is a quote from Hamar Arbeiderblad on 7 June 2008, signed by two chaplains, a senior priest and a parish priest in Hamar diocese. I'm proud of that. They also write: ‘The Christian faith and ethics must continue to be reworded. The church isn't out of time, it's in the middle of it. ‘... Even today, many children grow up in families where caregivers are equal. These children need secure legal frameworks around their family's upbringing. Article 2 of the Children's Convention shall prevent discrimination against children. With the proposal for a new common marriage law, children with similar parents will have the same rights and legal framework as other children from birth. The child is given the right to inherit and both parents are given parental responsibility and maintenance obligations to the child. Research has shown that it is important for these children that their family relationships are respected. Children of like-minded families are a well-discovered theme. Research has shown that for these children, as usual, the quality of the relationship between children and parents is crucial. The most important thing for all children is love and care. So to the right of reservation for health professionals to assist in assisted fertilisation. I am sceptical about how this proposal will be put into practice. Should health nurses be able to refuse to receive lesbian couples at the health centre? Should teachers refuse to talk about that living in gay life is as much worth living as heterophilic living? Should the protection of children be able to refuse home visits in connection with the application for adoption? Don't let this day become a fuss from the past. Now we can congratulate each other on the day and rejoice that love prevails.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1568	Today many speakers have used great words - and that for good reason, because it is a historic day. Norway takes a historic step in the work of equivalency and respect for gay and lesbian. Norway becomes the sixth country in the world to give gay and lesbian the same right to marriage that heterophiles have. It's a very long battle for justice, respect and equality for gay and lesbians who will be crowned with victory in the course of June this year. Back in the 1600s, homosexual acts were actually punished with death in Norway. In 1972, homosexual practices were decriminalised. In 1993, we received the Partnership Act. In 2002, the right to step-child adoption in registered partnerships was allowed. So Norwegian society has taken many big and small steps in the right direction in recent years in this area. Today, we are taking new steps for equivalency and legal equality in our society. This is therefore a joyous day. In my opinion, today we strengthen marriage as an institution. We're making it possible for more people to bond love bonds through marriage. Someone in this room is against the law changes that we're dealing with here. That's the way it's been before. This was also the case in 1993. At that time, the Christian People's Party believed that the partnership law would be destructive to society and lead to norm resolution and rootlessness. They are the same as in today's debate defends the Partnership Act and will continue it. Some people in this room have always gone backwards into the future in terms of gay and lesbian rights. A very important consequence of today's legislative change is the strengthening of children's rights. Many children are born today in lesbian couples. These children deserve the same rights as children born in a heterophilic relationship. The law we are now dealing with will ensure that children have two legal parents from birth. It is positive that children are given a safe legal framework from birth. This will include, inter alia: mean that the child is entitled to an inheritance and that the mother’s spouse or partner will have parental responsibility and maintenance obligations towards the child. Children of lesbian couples are assimilated to children born in heterophilic couples. It's important. Still, homofiles will unfortunately be able to experience discrimination in Norwegian society. It takes time to change people's attitudes and values. However, I hope that today's legislative changes will contribute to more open and inclusive attitudes towards gay and lesbians. Maybe we'll see that those who are voting against the law today, in 15-20 years, will defend the law and realize that they were wrong, as they did at the time with the Partnership Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1583	One of my close friends has lived in a lesbian couple relationship for many years. Her son, as a child most, did not experience it as strange or burdensome, until he heard a debate on the radio a few years ago, where the Christian People's Party participated. The 10-year-old came across to her mother and said, "Mom, am I hurt because you have a girl girl? Then he had heard the Christian People's Party representative pronounce how harmful it was for children to grow up in a gay family. Suddenly, because of prejudices and attitudes in the party that speaks of itself as the party that places the children's needs in the front, as we have heard many times today, the little boy's worldview was disturbed. For the first time in his life he felt different because his mother had a girl girl. When I heard the representative Tørresdal and also the comments from other representatives of the Christian People's Party earlier today, I was provoked. I was provoked on behalf of all the children who experience what my friend's son experienced, that people let their prejudices go out on children who don't feel they're different because if they have two parents of the same sex. That's exactly why I'm so incredibly proud today, because today, by adopting a common marriage law, we give all children and all families the same justice, the same dignity, the same rights and the same respect. With this law, we finally introduce real equality in Norway, where there is no longer any discrimination between heterophiles and homosexuals. I'm also very pleased that the majority of the committee wants to offer lesbian couples who are married or cohabiting, the right to assisted conception, in line with heterophilic couples. This is also necessary to ensure full equality and non-discrimination between gay and heterophilic couples. Today is a historic day. We assert that homophilic love is as much worth as heterophilic love. We assert that children of gay parents have the same right to respect as children of heterophilic parents. That is why I would like to congratulate all those who have worked and worked for years to reach this day, with the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1594	Yesterday, Stortinget wrote history with new laws of discrimination and accessibility, and today we are writing history again. At this stage of the debate, it is hardly possible to introduce something new. But I take the word in solidarity with those who have got their personal integrity violated by the prejudices and intolerances of others, and who unfortunately are often targeted by forces that claim to be on the basis of the next love. The 1948 League was long secret. Then came Kim Friele, then intolerance in the white eye and went in front as the first open gay in Norway. However, it was not until 1972 that the ban on homosexuality was lifted, and it was not until the late 1970s that the diagnosis of mental disorders was removed. Then came the legal protection against discrimination in 1981 and the right to partnership as late as 1993. So it's not until 2008 that we're ready for gender-neutral marriage law and changes in related laws. Unfortunately, that doesn't mean that we as a society are where we should be, because there's a lot left on the mindset. But we know that giving clear signals through legislation slowly helps to move mental barriers. Today, the Partnership Act is being embraced - remember the debate from the time it was introduced! Many claims have been raised: the matter has not been properly resolved. Choice of form of life is a private matter. Everyone has a right to respect for his or her own choices and demands for a secure framework around him and his or her family. We can't figure that out, because it's about basic human rights, and a postponement now is just a training. Marriage is threatened: I don't understand that argument. Indeed, the marriage as an institution will be strengthened on the contrary when we eliminate today's discrimination against homosexuals and lesbians. The new law will not force anyone to marry a person of the same sex. Nor will the new law affect people’s sexual orientation. Marriage between men and women will still be the most common, but the most unsubstantial of all is the claims that polygamy is going to be the next step. Enquiries in this matter have shocked me with their human vision. ‘Yes to marriage’’s demonstration in April can be a gruesome example of that, and I was sad when I saw their slogans, where they raised the beautiful and successful in traditional core families to the only blissful. The posters gave me creepy associations to the kind of propaganda we usually associate with totalitarian regimes. Extra evil was the fact that this message was delivered under the slogan “Biology, Children and the Bible. ” The anxiety was then reinforced by advertisements entitled ‘You Are an Insemination Young’. With what right can people get to mess with others that way? There's no excuse for that. At the same time, I would like to say that I was happy when I recently received an enquiry from the Christian People's Party in Buskerud, my home country. It was objective and polite, with respect for different opinions. Even I am proud to belong to a more than a hundred-year political movement built on freedom, equality and solidarity - on the equal value of all people. I'm happy to belong to the majority today, who treat love as equal without deterring the sexual orientation we're born with.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1617	Marriage between men and women has deep cultural roots. It is not a strange system, but it is recognized throughout the world, regardless of religion or view of life. Marriage law regulates much more than a relationship between two of the same sexes. So it's something more than a community law. Marriage also has a function that involves a continuation of the family and new generations, and is actually dependent on two different sexes. A partnership between two like-minded people does not bear this element in itself. It makes a gay or lesbian couple relationship a real different -- no less valuable, but genuine different than marriage. The Partnership Act was adopted to ensure a good and secure legal framework around the community of homosexuals and lesbians. I believe as legislator that the Partnership Act is doing this in a good way. It is worth noting that all the opposition parties, including those who support the bill or parts of it, criticise the Government for not having carried out a more thorough investigation work prior to the bill. Such a radical change in the marriage law, the child law, the adoption law and the biotechnology law is radically breaking with strong historical roots. I share this criticism of the lack of investigations into consequences before the bill was submitted to Stortinget. I have listened to the debate today, and I am surprised at accusations of discrimination. In the centre party big group, we have different views, but there is no one in the centre party big group who accuses anyone of being discriminatory or intolerant. One has actually chosen to listen to each other's arguments, and then one is accepted because one has different approaches to this bill. I had hoped that it could also be reflected in the debate here, without anyone making accusations of discrimination because one comes to another conclusion. I am voting against the changes in the marriage law, the changes in the biotechnology law and the changes in the child law and the adoption law. I support the proposal on the right of reservation for health professionals, promoted by Trond Lode. I support the proposal that requires a known donor, and also the proposal to send the case back for further investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1632	The greatest of all is love. This is a day in the sign of love. The size makes an important value decision today. The decision taken today in the Grand Duchy will strengthen marriage and strengthen children’s rights. We want to guarantee children the right to two parents. I am proud and happy to be part of this legislative change. Norway is taking an important and proper step towards becoming a more open and inclusive country. Giving everyone equal opportunities and equal rights is something we have to strive for. In the last few months I have received hundreds of e-mails, and I have read them. I've also read my Bible. I want to thank everyone for the great and strong commitment that has been shown. We've got all the arguments on the table, both for and against. We who are today going to take this decision on a new law know what we mean, and we know what we're going to decide: that everyone should get married, that everyone should be able to get assisted conception no matter who you choose to live with, and that everyone on the same line should now be able to be judged to be able to adopt. It's important to give everyone equal opportunities and equal rights. It is important that when you want to adopt, you should be able to be judged by your suitability as a parent, not by who you share a bed with. Many people, whom I was talking about, have written an e-mail to me, and there are many who have said that they have started prayer groups to make the Storting come up with better thoughts. Many others, including myself, have asked for this law to be passed. Today we see who it is that is going to be answered in prayer. I am pleased that today we are adopting a law that focuses on human dignity and human rights. Finally, I will quote a song that fits very well today: "All you need is love, all you need is love, All you need is love, love, love is all you need. ‘... Congratulations on the day!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1655	For me, this is a big and emotional day. I am so lucky to have many good friends who are gay, and that I am allowed to participate in adopting a law that ensures them as good a framework around their life as I have around my own, feels very right. For me, this is a happy day, but in the last few months I think I've been a little sad. For in the midst of all the factual and pleasurable inquiries, it has almost daily appeared that condemning Bible quotations have stumbled upon me and my colleagues. For me, it's okay, because I have a self-elected role as a staging representative. But the past few months' experiences have shown me how far we have to go in relation to homosexuality in some environments. As a Christian, I find it particularly sad that the condemnation is so strong in some Christian environments, but I want to emphasize it in some Christian environments. In my home country, Hedmark, the church has been one of the greatest perpetrators in the fight for gay rights. And I have the pleasure of wishing everyone who is present, welcome to the celebration service for love at noon. 19th in the Hamar cathedral tonight. This is not a day to hound or raddle over someone else's point of view, the matter is too important for that. This is not the day to hit your chest and say, look at us, we are the good ones. The story of how our society has treated gays is too dark for us who are here now to be able to hound towards someone. There is greater reason to apologize to all those who have had to hide their legend and their love. As you know, I'm here to get married by gays. I think it's a good thing for a society that there's as much secure and stable a framework around a life as possible. I'm convinced that the claim that gay people get stronger frames around their lives threatens the traditional family. What threatens the family is not that more people want a framework, but the lack of a framework that we experience. I also want to be sure to vote in favour of homophiles being considered adoptive parents. I am absolutely sure, and have seen in practice, that a gay couple can exhibit the same safe parenthood as a heterophilic couple. The third main theme today is the question of assisted fertilisation. For me, this question is much more complex than the first two. In that case, it is about having a third person into the picture that gives semen so that fertilisation can take place. The whole discussion about the use of eggs and sperm from others is very complex. For my part, this issue is not about whether I think lesbians can raise children in a good way, because I am absolutely sure that they can, but it is about the principle of bringing in a third person that the child will not know through his or her growth. That's why I'm going to vote no to assisted fertilization for lesbians. This is a principle position for me, and I believe the same with regard to heterophiles, that they should not be entitled to assisted fertilization with egg or semen donation. So in today's vote, I will first vote against this principle, but then vote for all the changes that guarantee children's rights. Finally, I'm happy to be allowed to vote for a law that guarantees gay people's rights in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1675	The Christian People's Party is constantly faced with discrimination against homosexuals and lesbians. But the Christian People's Party is taking a great deal of distance from any discrimination against homosexuals, including through our active political work. Let me give you an example: Many homosexuals experience discrimination in the workplace. As Minister for Children and Family Affairs of the Bondevik II Government, I presented the issue to the Stortinget of a common enforcement system against discrimination, and the enforcement of discrimination against homosexuals and lesbians in the workplace was added to the Ombudsman. This concerns the enforcement of the non-discrimination chapter of the Working Environment Act. At the time, one of LLH's leading representatives said this was one of the most important things that had happened in anti-discrimination work for homosexuals. I would like to have this in writing, but unfortunately I did not. I am very proud of the work the Bondevik II government did, also in the follow-up of St. Report. No 25 for 2000–2001, which we systematically implemented. It is also interesting to hear some politicians criticise the Christian People's Party for having changed positions. Because there are some of the parties here in the hall that haven't changed their positions about gays over the years? The content of the law we're dealing with today would be unimaginable for most parties just a short time ago. In dealing with this law, the Christian People's Party is also accused of discriminating lesbians if they do not receive the same rights as heterophiles to assisted conception, i.e. the possibility of having a child. But what about the kids who don't get the opportunity to have a father? The government will even accept anonymous insemination abroad. Does that mean that it has to be discriminatory against the children? And what about the gays? Why shouldn't they have the same rights to have children? That is also the case for those who are discriminated against - if that is discrimination we are talking about. No, this case is not about discrimination, as I see it. It's about adults' rights at the expense of the child. It should be a cross-thinking that the 2006 French parliamentary report rejected a gender-neutral marriage law on the grounds of children's rights. Assisted fertilisation to lesbians involves a systematic and planned breach of the legal protection of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Father will be defined as superfluous, and the state will actively contribute to children being deprived of the right to grow up with and know their father. People who are denied this right are denied answers to key existential and identity questions, as I see it. Does the Norwegian big thing in 2008 really mean that dad is superfluous? Why is gender irrelevant at home, when, as politicians, we fight for diversity in kindergartens and schools, just for the sake of children? I would strongly appeal to the representatives of Storting to vote in favour of today's marriage law and say no to assisted fertilization for lesbians, and in particular to the acceptance of anonymous insemination abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1694	I gave a marriage vow 40 years ago, and I've been fighting my whole life to keep it. And I get to say with my wife, it's a lot of hard work and a lot of luck. [[muttering in the hall]] I also grew up in a Norway where it was strange for me to have a thought that other than heterophiles could be happy with each other. So there's an insight I've had into adult life. I must admit that I refused for that meeting for quite a long time, until I realized that I had to take over the human proximity, the existential proximity and the commitment that was in it. It has done something to me, and it has affected me in the following way: I think that the commitment of commitment to life, including between those of the same sex, is a strength for a society. What should bother any society is where you have so much to struggle with togetherness that you don't get it done. I wish only ten pst. by the energy that is mobilized to vote against the law that I am voting for today, had been used to support the life that is struggling, not with condemnation, but with an outstretched hand--for it happens that we humans have to have the outstretched hand just because it is like this in our lives. It is also such that a person sent me an e-mail and asked how I could go on a cross-walk long Friday and vote for the law that I do. Did I not believe in God's forgiveness? I had to answer that every human being who lives his life needs God's forgiveness, no matter where you are. So I said something that I shall also say now: I am in order that in the civil law order there should be legislation that creates a binding framework for anyone who wants to live with each other, whether they are heterophiles or homosexuals, and that gives children the rights they should have. And then I'm a rock hard follower of the fact that the state has to get away as quickly as possible from any direct or indirect attempt to govern religious or church communities as to what they are going to have the right to. I am aware - and pleased - that there are proposals here today that express it, but even I would have thought that it would have been the most tiring thing that the marriage had been a bourgeois legal order, a civil agreement, and that the blessing given determines the individual in the religious relationship vis-à-vis his religion and in relation to what one stands for. We're not going to get there today in principle, but we're going far on the way. I am very pleased with the suggestions that lie here, that it is of course a matter of course that no government agency can dictate anyone who has a belief, to act across that belief. It is also in the post I made on this platform, that I understand and know that there are many people who believe that marriage is established by God, and that is what it is. I respect those who have that vision. I just want them to respect that people can have a different view, and that in a society like ours, we have to create legal rules that allow us to live together in a real way. And then also the end of this article is the testimony it started with -- that I started with a different ballast in life than the one I have when I vote today. But my close encounter with people who have been happy with each other, committed and proper to each other, has made such a strong impression on me that it is from the conviction that I am voting for the law that a majority in the Storing will ensure at voting today. It has been a long way to go, but the road is over for me.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1709	For the nearly 58 years I have lived, the view of homophilia has changed greatly. The view of the parties has changed greatly, and the view of themselves by homophiles has, fortunately, also changed as this happens. Also in their own party, attitudes have changed. Therefore, I am happy to say today that I am fully behind every word that my party leader said about this - but with a slightly different point of view. It is also a joyous day when I can vote in favour of the law today. It eliminates a good deal of discrimination, but much remains. The most difficult thing remains, because it is changing attitudes. I would not have voted in favour of the law if you had fallen for the temptation to use this law change to dictate the beliefs of marriage. It would have been to abuse the legislative power. I also think it would have been a far too dramatic step to deprive priests of the right to marry, i.e. to make marriage a bourgeois institution and a purely legal institution. Now we've been asked to investigate it. I would like to know, but let me say so that this enquiry came so late that I also suspect that there are certain tactical motives. But you'd have to decide. However, some strong pressure from the Norwegian Church to abolish the victorial right of marriage has not been experienced before, to put it this way. I have also read hundreds of articles that have been sent to me. They have basically convinced me of one thing: there is a lot of discrimination out there and still goes into society. And then a lot of people might expect me to say "over gay." No, not primarily. I read many of the posts as a gross violation of many lonely dependants. I am among those who have grown up with a father and a mother, and am very happy about it, but today it is not that everyone has that opportunity. Some of the words and expressions used in our contacts are such that they violate many thousands of this society that do not have the possibility of father and mother, or where heterophilic marriage has broken up as a result of a lack of loyalty or love, and where children do not experience the situation that so many now celebrate. That might be the worst part. Then I have to say, with a certain undertone of irony -- for which I'm not known, but for which I can cost myself occasionally -- that it's touching now to record a violent breakdown of the partnership law. I also dare the claim - but here I am on thin ice - that in the next period perhaps no proposal will be made to amend the law that Odelstinget and Lamentationt are now probably doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1720	We have now had a long debate with many strong contributions. Personally, I think it is great to be allowed to participate in and listen to this debate. There is no doubt that the debate and the forthcoming decision are historic in many ways. We are now using the opportunity to correct the injustice and discrimination caused by today's legislation. A lot of input into this case has been made to us big-time representatives. It's great that people are engaged, including those who are opposed to the changes. It's great when we, as elected representatives, get clear and clear input. I have great respect for the opinions of others, including those against this amendment of the law, but it is disappointing to see how many people are against this amendment of the law, go in their argument. Yes, even more people describe where we are for the law, when we leave this earth. The rules here on the house allow me hardly to mention the name of that place, I suppose, but it is tempting. Many of these recordings, in my view, show little tolerance for the opinions of others and the views of others. It has to be allowed to disagree, and we have to respect each other for it. I have to say that I have been disappointed with much of this. The best of children is often dealt with as an argument in the case. It is repeated in the debate that we have to think about the best of children. I fully agree with that. I take as a starting point that we all want the best for the children, regardless of who they grow up with. Many children today grow up with like-minded couples, and I am convinced that these children too are given the best care and follow-up in their upbringing. Many opponents claim that the number of gays and lesbians will increase as a result of this Decision. Honestly, I don't think that people's sexual orientation is determined by a club seizure in the Stortinget. I hope that the decision will help people to stand up with their legation, in other words to be honest with themselves and the outside world. Honesty is as far as I know. If love is the greatest of all, as it is said, today I will use my voice and my close love to ensure the majority of the law and thus create a legally secure framework also for gay and lesbian couples and their children.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1733	Let me first say about the occasional bullying and harassment that has occurred prior to the handling of this matter, that it is not okay. It's not okay, no matter what position you might have on the decisions that are being taken in the Chamber today. Nor is it possible that the majority in this room attributes to me and the rest of the minority attitudes, human vision, that we don't have. I have never been accused in my life of being a darker man than because of my views on this matter. And something especially further from the truth, it's not a matter of getting there. I registered Kristin Halvorsen's high raised moral indexing finger in her posts, and how she almost contributes to the bullying of those of us who have a different viewpoint than what she herself has come up with. For many of us, it has been difficult to arrive at a position on this matter simply because most of us believe that love occurs across and across, regardless of orientation, regardless of gender, regardless of what you believe in, regardless of where you live. But then there's also a lot of relationships in a society that you can't regulate. That doesn't mean you shouldn't have respect for people who choose to decorate their lives differently than what you think is traditional and consistent. I have that respect. When I still disagree with the law, it's because of a lot of relationships. I recorded that the majority accuses the minority of pushing the children in front of them in the argument. So you might as well turn it around. I think the majority push the children in front of them when they argue. What you're really doing is making this law to legitimize that someone has been bypassing the law for years to have children because they've wanted them. I respect that many people want children, but I also respect that there are laws that have regulated different forms of life in our society. We also have the same law for those of us who are lonely. We are also subject to laws regarding our rights as mothers, adoptive mothers, etc., and there have been changes over time. We can't regulate ourselves because it takes two sexes to make a child. That you call it discrimination not to have such a law, I don't understand. At the same time, there is one relationship that is very high for me. It's the right to know its biological origin. You take away that right from a lot of kids. And after talking to adoptive children and other children who have spent their entire lives mapping their biological origins, I think it's very easy to take it into account in the arguments put forward by the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1742	I have great respect for the Christian People's Party and the Advancement Party, which have a different position on this matter. But having respect for another position is not weakened by one arguing strongly against the position of other parties. On the contrary, respect is actually about taking the position of other parties seriously and explaining what you like about the positions. I and the Right believe that today's legislation, where the relationship between two adults who want to live in a commitment relationship is divided into two different laws with different content, is discriminatory. I'll try to explain that to my friends in the Christian People's Party and the Advancement Party. Even I have lived under the partnership law for almost eight years - in two weeks for eight years - and obviously experience it as a significantly better situation than if we had not had a partnership law. But it is nevertheless discriminatory. I think my party leader, Erna Solberg, used an image of this which is very good and striking in relation to the logic used by the minority in the vote, when they write that since homosexuals can marry under the partnership law, it is not discrimination. It's exactly the same logic that was behind the argument that was used in the U.S. when one said that color wasn't discriminated against because they had the right to go to school just they went to another school. It's the same argument that underlies that position. This is the experience of those who live by the partnership law, and that is the way it is experienced by the homosexuals. It is quite special that this is defined here from a perception that it is the majority who will decide when the minority experiences discrimination, because that is the argument that underlies the Christian People's Party and the position of the Advance Party. They should take seriously that a minority in society sees today's legislation as discriminatory, and takes it into consideration, because that is actually the situation. So it's also like these two laws actually contain completely different rights, not least in the situations where one has children -- and one does. There would have been greater credibility in the Christian People's Party and the arguments of the Progress Party today if they had promoted all the legislative amendments to the Partnership Act that were needed to give the two laws the same status. But I'm recording that they haven't.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1755	During the debate, several of the representatives have focused on the many letters, e-mails, telephones and SMSes that we have received. I share that view, as I also said in the line exchange in connection with my post, that some of the enquiries have gone far beyond the line, but many of them have also been good. I could imagine reading up one of them, like, among other things. have gone to the male representatives of the Workers' Party and the Central Party's large-scale groups. It says: "Hey, I'm addressing you as a man and as a father and I'd like to be allowed to ask you some questions. First to you who have known a father: Has it mattered to your development as a man and as a human being that your father was just that--a father? Think back on childhood; everyday and party, play and work, joy and sorrow, football matches, ski tours, fishing trips, etc. Would a potential lesbian roommate for your mother be able to play the same role as your father did? And to those of you who have experienced the joy of being a father yourself: are you as a father only a donor and a caregiver? Does it matter to your children to know that you are actually their carnal father? Can a random woman replace you? Even I have to answer a definite no to all of these questions. Neither my father nor I are perfect. But the relatives are still of great importance. True enough, in an imperfect world, it is not all bad to know their parents. However, legislation should be designed to ensure, as far as possible, that children grow up with their parents. If you answered no to any of the above questions, you should consider voting against the proposal for a new marriage law. Then you help to make sure that as many children as possible can know their father in the same way that you did. With kind regards » I will anonymise the name, but he will sign it with Son and Father. This is one of many who have expressed concern for the children in the reality that the Workers' Party, SV, the Center Party, the Right and the Left will create for us in the future. These are wise and healthy words. I think Dad also has something to contribute in the future. He can actually be significantly more than a sperm. He can actually be something that contributes to a positive development for the child. It's in danger of the law we get by. today. At the very end of his visit to the representative, Höie, it is strange that he comes with as strong a result as he does, when he last did during the last growing-up period, among other things. wrote the following in Innst. O. No 16 for 2003-2004: ‘The extension of the offer of assisted fertilisation to lesbian couples means that this health offer is extended to persons who are not childless for medical reasons. The majority believe that this represents a morbidity of childlessness that is not desirable. ‘... So that's what the representative named Höie wrote at the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1800	This is a historic day in many ways. Following the proposal for a new marriage law, two of the same sex may also marry. Finally, we have come this far. This is a great step for humanity, I will claim. It has not been many years since two of the same sex that were happy in each other, were viewed as a criminal and could be punished for their love. Fortunately, we have come further. What I think is the saddest thing in this debate here today, are those who claim that they put the children in focus, not at all. One claims that children have the right to a father and a mother, and that that is the best thing for the child anyway. What's best for the children is that you have good caregivers who see the child and care for the child. There is nothing more important for a child than that it grows up in a safe home with a firm frame and gets the love that the child deserves. That's what's important, and that's what this is about. I'm 100 pst. convinced that a gay or lesbian couple can, in line with heterophilic couples, provide the same good care as a child needs. There are many children growing up in homes where you don't have good role models, and who don't have a solid, safe environment. Maybe it's for the child's good, 'cause they're living with mom and dad? Of course it's not like that. This proposal that we are discussing here today means that it is caring and not gender that is crucial for whether they are good parents. Only persons considered fit shall become adoptive parents and sexual orientation shall not be decisive. This is a good day. Congratulations on the day, everyone!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1814	In many ways, I think this debate has been quite sad, because here it classifies the only blissful thing as a mother, father and child. That's what's best for kids. We know that it's not like that. It's also the way to signal to all the children who live with one parent, who are adopted, and who have other family settings, also two parents of the same sex, that it's not good enough. I totally disagree with that, too. We know that's good enough. What's good for children is that they have good caregivers around them, that they have rights equal to other children, and that there's a social setting that we put up in the community around them, that many people have had, like men in kindergartens, men in high school, but also that you have a large and good family around you that can be caregivers. I was educated as a midwife in 1976. Then we put an "S" in front of the name of women who were sorcerers. It stood for spuria, which meant they were giving birth to wrong children. There are many who have been involved in the short history of discrimination in this country. I believe this is being carried on far from this pulpit today from the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party. In fact, I believe that the consequence of the attitude in this matter, and the consequence of the debate we have heard today from the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, must be that they are opposed to adoption, that they are also opposed to assisted conception of heterophilics, and that they are also, in fact, opposed to the behaviour of lone-parents alone. The opposition to, and opponents of, this law has also been concerned with further investigation of, the bill. I have no faith that an investigation in any way would have changed the views of the representatives who are sitting in this Chamber today. Community marriage law is a matter of value. It's about human rights, and it's about discrimination. I would also say that this day I believe is a victory for the right to love one another and live together within a secure legal framework, both for adults and for children. Then I'd like to mention a little post that's been in the Eastfold papers after May 17th, be deserved, with three degrees and rain. I don't think there was anything to do with us Eastern folds, but maybe the God of heaven would tell us right on this Constitutional Day that we have a government and a great deal about to change the marriage law. I have followed the weather all day: a lot of blue sky, brilliant sun. [[Laughter]] Congratulations on the day!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1831	Community marriage law is an expression of a changing society. Too few years ago, a child was born outside marriage in many environments a shame and a feeling for large family, mother and children. In some environments community is still not a good tone. Current law has, however, been amended continuously to ensure equivalence. That's the same thing that's happening today. The law will be changed to ensure equivalency. Many have changed in 15 years. The plurality of the Central Party and the Right supports new law today. The Christian People's Party writes in the setting that they want gay couples to have good and safe arrangements for their lives. Three examples of change. The proposals have led to debate. That's good. Many have taken e-mail or pen hold. Some of the articles, in my view, ask that parts of the debate are somewhat obscured. Not all senders accept homophilis, much less homofiles. Who asks us other people about practice? On the contrary, in a lot of contexts, the meaning of being self-understood is just underlined. Sometimes I also get a sense that the debate is based on an ideal society, where mother and father in happy, lifelong marriage provide only good days for their kids. This is not the world. Many unforgiving words in this debate include couples without children and parents, who do what they can to give their children a good upbringing. 127 couples joined in 2006. Today's law change thus means no threat to marriage. Rather, let's hope the opposite, that those of the gays who choose a commitment relationship, by this equality, become more. Today, we are discussing deep ethical issues. The first principle I had to try myself on was my great resistance to adoption. I know from work and otherwise gay people with care and limits on which I am safe will be the best thing for a child to experience. I can no longer stand for an argument where an adoptive parent cannot be considered because of legging. Then I have met the claim that I reserved for assisted fertilization because I have not experienced this dilemma in a close family. It's actually not like that. I know women who are undergoing therapy because assisted conception has failed. I know women who wear out excessive expectations from their surroundings. I think we should have taken time to think through the experiences that we have so far before we discussed the extension. Then I must finally say: I was against new law in 2005. I want to be honest with my political work. Being honest means to me in this matter of changing your vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1848	I take the word again, because I was a little unprecise in my answers in the lineword shift earlier today, especially on questions from the Christian People's Party about the Central Party's relationship in the Government to this proposition. I said we didn't take any initiative to change the content of the proposition. It's a truth about modifications. I do not give our government members, either from the Center Party, the Workers' Party or SV, recognition of the work done. What has been sunny for the Center Party all along is that the Church and other religious communities must become self-sufficient in these matters. It is also reflected in the government's proposal for a new marriage law. It's important for us to make it clear that the Center Party is very happy with that. It is of great importance for us that the law makes it up to the Church meeting to change the liturgy so that the marriage of lesbians and gays can take place in the Norwegian Church. If the Church were to change the liturgy, it is up to the individual priest to decide whether he or she wants to conduct such a marriage, a right of reservation similar to that of the clergy today when it is due to divorce. I just wanted to make it clear that it has been important, not only for the Center Party, but also for others in government cooperation, to get this into the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1855	Some of the worst things I hear about are people who have lived for years, even their whole lives, without telling them who they really are. In Norway, there are probably thousands of people who still today have never dared to be honest with themselves or the environment, for fear of condemnation, for fear of outburst, for fear of shame and for fear of not being treated as a human being on the same line with everyone else. Today is therefore incredibly important. Soon no one will be able to bully, discriminate or condemn gay and lesbian people or their children under Norwegian law. I believe it is obvious that as long as it is such that Norwegian law does not equate homophilic and heterophilic love, but discriminates between them, it will be easier to treat homosexual and lesbian and their children differently also in everyday life. I hear that someone believes this common marriage law threatens the father's role, the role of man, the love between man and woman and the marriage as an institution. Ulf Erik Knudsen feels reduced to a sperm. That's what I think I'm looking at. But I cannot, with my best will, believe that there are so many men walking in Norway's streets and feeling threatened by other people's choice of living, that their identity and their own lives are at stake. Even today I feel touched, touched and proud and secure, because on this day we are writing history. It's nothing less than fantastic that we finally get rid of important parts of our law that discriminate between people. It's almost impossible to believe that soon-- hopefully and finally-- we can say that it's not who you love, who will decide whether you can be considered fit to have children. It is if you are fit to have a child, who will decide the matter. Children want safety. They want love. They want honesty and respect. Children who grow up with respectful, caring and safe adults tend to become respectful, caring and safe themselves. Imagine if we could get 50,000 signatures for the campaign savesmå.no, which consists of people working to protect the smallest children from abuse, violence and neglect, regardless of the parental sexual orientation! Today, 200,000 children in Norway suffer from a lack of protection and care by adults. Where are the activists? Where are the props? Where are the protests and the commitment? I beg you who feel this day as a threat to the love between man and woman: please, use every day to fight for love on behalf of the children who today suffer from the absence of love. Today there is reason to put on the princess drive, go out into the streets and celebrate. Long live love! Long live freedom! Long live the inclusive communities!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1868	I think that this debate has been very factual and good, but there is a small thing that has upset me, and as I believe there is a need to comment. In the change of lines in connection with the post of Ulf Erik Knudsen, the party of progress had taken its own direction and made a line on its own -- quite original. But the Morten Höglund of the Progress Party had a very good and clarifying post, where he strongly distanced himself from infringing statements in the context of the debate on common marriage law. You have to respect that someone else has a different vision. I thought that was very well said by Morten Höglund. Unfortunately, it did not take many minutes for the representative of the Progress Party Knudsen to go to the bar. In the change of line with the representative Trond Lode from the Center Party, he accused Lode of lying after Lode had honestly explained that he had changed his view of common marriage law. It is an irresistible level of debate on the part of Ulf Erik Knudsen that I believe is not Odelstinget worthy. I want to challenge the representative Knudsen to ask the representative Lode for an apology for that accusation. So the children's best has been highlighted in the debate. The representative of the Højbrätt highlighted it. Yes, we're all concerned with the best of children. But look at the body that has been commissioned in Norway to talk about the best of children - the Children’s Ombudsman. What does the Children's Ombudsman think about this matter? The children’s ombudsman has, in his hearing opinion, agreed that gay and lesbians should be given the opportunity to adopt and they have opted for the right to assisted fertilisation for lesbians. In the consultation opinion, they refer to experience from Swedish research, which shows that children in similar conditions have the same good family life as all other children. Just on the basis of this research and also the NOVAS study, which shows that homophilis is accepted in society, the Children’s Ombudsman concludes that it is right to open up homophiles to adoption and assisted fertilisation. The Children's Ombudsman believes that this is best for the children. Then the question you have to ask is the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party: Is the Children's Ombudsman wrong? Finally, I have also noticed that the representative Knudsen is concerned about being reduced to a sperm cell. I want to reassure the representative Knudsen that we heterophile women still want to enjoy your men - and that in this room I have not intended to go into detail about what is in it. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1879	I have been asked questions from Ingreigt S. Sørfonn about common marriage law will have any impact on the private school law. As I see it, the marriage law will not have any effect or change the principles of school education. Here the curriculums are very clear. In the fourth stage, whether you go to private school or public school, you have to learn about variations in family forms, including: families where officers have the same sex. After the 7th stage, there should be a dialogue on the variation in sexual orientation, and after the 10th stage, students should be able to discuss the relationship between love and sexuality in the light of cultural standards. So the curricula, whether private schools or public schools, should not conflict with the purpose paragraph. And there is ‘the ability to carry out the training in accordance with their vision and to say over-interpretation, as long as it is informed of other views and Norwegian legislation in the field’. So here's the law ready. Schools, whether private or public, have an obligation to teach about variation, so there will be no change in this position. With regard to assisted fertilisation, the discussion has been thoroughly elucidated. And there are different views in the Storting on this. When we were allowed assisted fertilisation, there were many representatives who voted against it. But what we haven't had a thorough discussion of today, on the other hand, is the question of adoption. I can't see that neither the Christian People's Party nor the Advance Party from this pulpit have been able to present anything about why homosexuals are initially unsuitable for applying to become adoption parents. The Christian People's Party has partly discussed why marriage cannot be concluded, but no representatives of the Progress Party have done so from this pulpit. Siv Jensen was here instead. She made a long post about this with assisted conception, but did not argue why gay people are unsuitable for marriage. "Love arises on the cross and on the cross," she said. But they're not good enough for marriage. I'm interpreting it as a sign that we're getting a little bit on our way in these discussions. We still disagree on a part. However, when virtually no one argues against a marriage law, and everyone says that homosexuals are good caregivers, it shows that we are able to change Norway through this important discussion in Odelstinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1894	Towards the end of a long and interesting debate there are a few things I would like to comment on. One is about the accusations of the Advance Party against the Right that we have broken our program and -- I had almost said -- lied to the voters. Then probably the Progress Party has spent more time reading advertisements from not very friendly actors to us in this matter than they have used to read our program. There's nothing in our program that stands in the way that the Right can vote the way we vote today, and we haven't given the impression of anything else either. Another comment that also came from the Progress Party was that the Right would be willing to renovate at the Church's position and the Church's integrity in what we are now talking about. I also think that is a rather unreasonable accusation. The right has been clear about the Church's position and has reserved it in every context as long as we have dealt with this matter, and separately in any other similar context. We are also going to be quite clear in the future that the Church will have an independent position and, of course, manage its own liturgies and its handling of these questions. In that context, I noted in and of myself the representative May Hansen's reply to a line on compulsory civil marriage. She said that if you had gone in to investigate this now, the Church would kind of relax and not take a stand on these things. Then I think she knows the Church pretty badly. I think this is going to be a big theme within the Church even in the time to come. I hope that the Norwegian Church will find good ways to deal with this. So, finally, the role as a father. Sure it's important to be a father, and sure it's important to have a father. But we live in a society where families are so diverse. There's someone who doesn't have a mother, too-- actually, a good part. And there's someone who lives alone, there's someone who lives with two mothers, and there's someone who lives with two fathers. We haven't talked about them much today. We could have talked more about them, really. In short -- we live in a society that depends on tolerance. We're dependent on not using our index finger against each other, and it demands a slightly different approach than the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party have demonstrated here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1907	This debate has, to a very large extent, been about who has views that are politically correct, and who does not have them. I want to make a contribution in that context and hit a blow for history and biology in my way, that is. using someone else's word and quoting from one of my favorite books. It's written by former sorenist Stian Sørlie. The book is entitled "Unsatisfactory Society: Attempting to Problemate the Natural. " It says, among other things.\t\t You can change the ‘The depiction of the three footstep pairs in the Olduvai divide in Tanzania, set aside in soft lava 3-4 million years ago, is not going to be erased. Here, a human-like individual wandered through the valley and set off his footprints, followed by a slightly smaller individual who walked cautiously in the first track. And next to these still adults, the tracks, we find a much more vocal trackset of a much smaller individual, jumping and dancing in the future. "The nuclear family" is of course a unit and has been so for as long as people and hominids have wandered around the earth, whether they have lived in caves, houses, villages or big cities and whatever variants sociologists and ethnologists can draw from their rarity collections. This ur cell is going to resist all attacks and make all predictions a shame - until reproduction is eventually taken over by chemical institutes. But then human society is no longer a human society. Until that happens - if it happens - children will depend on their parents' closeness, first and foremost mother's. For mother's role cannot be taken over by any state in, no matter who it may be and no matter how massive the propaganda tries to indoctrinate us on the opposite. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1922	Like several people, I have to be allowed to spend a little extra time on the Progress Party, since they chose to use the opportunity to take a line on themselves, which meant that we didn't get the opportunity to line up. I want to ask the representative Knudsen to take his argument a little bit down on the ground. Let's relate to reality for a second. Both the Advance Party and so far the Christian People's Party have talked a lot here today about their dreams of the core family - the dream of mother, father and children and the dream that all children will grow up with a mother and a father who is cordially present throughout childhood. It's a very nice dream, but the world doesn't look like it today. Many children live with a mother or a father. Many children live with two mothers or two fathers. This is reality today. The Progress Party and the Christian People's Party say that today they are fighting for children's best and children's rights to biological origin. But that's really what they're fighting against. That's exactly what they're going to vote against when we have voting in a short time. There is nothing in Norwegian law today that forbids homophilis, and as far as I have got with me, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party will not propose to prohibit it either. There is nothing in Norwegian law that forbids gay people to live together. Nor do I believe that the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party would like to propose banning it. There is nothing in the Norwegian law that forbids homosexuals to give birth. I also do not believe that the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party would like to propose such a ban. Then we stand in front of the practical reality that iodine, as long as we don't forbid it, will still have children in this country, either by assisted fertilization here at home, with a friend or a man in some kind of relationship or, above all, by what is most common, assisted fertilization abroad. It's going to continue regardless of what the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party may think. The consequence of refusing lesbian assisted conception here at home is not that we are going to stop having children, listen to the Christian People's Party and the Advancement Party, turn around and find us a man and have children and live happily together. This is actually about lesbian women who want to have children. They will never choose a man to live with. What we can do here today is to make sure that we change the Norwegian law, so that those children who are going to be born at assisted conception, at the age of 18, are given the opportunity to know their origin. That is what the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party are actually voting against here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1943	Today we are dealing with a case that deals with both gay dishes in the same line with heterofiles, and what will be important and good solutions for many children in society. These are important changes, and since this is a matter where many are exempted from program formulations and multiple decisions, it is some of us who will benefit from the ability to tell why we're doing what we're doing today. I'm going to focus my article on one of the themes involved in today's discussion, which I think goes beyond correcting discrimination against homosexuals and securing the rights of the children who have gay parents. The question of the right to assisted fertilisation by donor genetic material, regardless of who received it, and the orientation they have, raises many difficult questions: Is it a human right to have children? Is it always right to use the possibilities that new technologies give us? And not least, is it ethical and moral right to allow medical-technological developments to control the possibilities of reproduction and, in some cases, the properties of the human being that comes to it? There is no human right to have children, neither for heterophilic nor for homosexuals. It's basically only man and woman together who can create life, while caring for life is not exclusive to reproduction. My fear is that by contributing to more and more children being produced by assisted fertilization, whether we want it or not, we are helping to push our society towards the sorting society. The technological possibilities are already opening up to it today, and only we as legislators have the right and the duty to set the limits. The danger of a development in which creating life becomes a commodity in a market, and of a selection process in which the preferred genes can be produced, makes me think that entire biotechnology laws must be reconsidered and put in a better place. The consequences of such a principle view of assisted conception are that assisted conception should only be given in relation to where the parents of the family are a woman and a man, and both can be biological parents. As opponents of assisted fertilization with donor inheritance, I do not want to vote to extend this right further, precisely because there is no human right to have children, but all children have human rights. For me, the question of assisted fertilisation is not about the individual's care ability. I think it's equally distributed among people of different orientations, which it's always been. That is why I support the other changes here today. But when we decide whether or not to extend the right to assist in fertilization with donor genetic material, we make a decision as to whether to grow up their dishes and their ability to self-realize, already heterophilic married, and in this case lesbian couples, in the next round maybe alone. But if the proposal were to be given a plurality, the decision we take in relation to Kinderelova, whether it should be changed or not, will be about their children's courts. Of course, it is important to ensure that children are protected, and to ensure the legal rights they receive, regardless of parental orientation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1962	When I hear from the representative Knudsen's quotes from the e-mails we have all received, I understand that he does not understand the scope of what he is saying, and how it is interpreted outside this room. Some people to whom the representative Knudsen addresses, interprets and perceives it as if gay people live in a closed room 24 hours a day and do not meet another person. It's the two people, and behind those doors it happens very much strange. There are some people who believe, and there are some people who believe that Ulf Erik Knudsen says, because he has not yet said anything clear in the public debate. The people who are lone gay or lesbian don't live in a vacuum where there's glamour, glitter and drag show that the kids have to watch every two hours. They live at most normally. And if I wish for a child -- which maybe also Trittbergstuen, Höie and Per-Kristian Foss -- I know at least that there's a couple-three phones I would have taken: phone one to my mother, telephone two to my grandmother, telephone three to my mother-in-law, telephone four to my sister-in-law, telephone five to my best friend -- just because I mean, like the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, that it's incredibly important that children have role models of both sexes, because we're a little different. Children must have positive role models. That's why I think the argument from some people here is quite disguised. For later on, as if children with gay and lesbian parents today live in such a strange, different way. You don't say it correctly, but that's the strings you're playing on. I really think the representative of Knudsen's half-gravy shows are quite transparent. But I repeat what I said in my first post, that I hope that also the representative Knudsen and the Progress Party feel a common commitment in the future when the law is passed, to build up prejudices and not build them up. Then there are also others who have noticed what the representative Knudsen said about reducing it to some kind of low-quality cell, and I think one should change to a pride of being a man, that he is a man enough to be a good adult person also as a politician, and a person to whom someone is listening. Vote against, but go in the fight against bullying. Then, in fact, it could be that I perceive the representative Knudsen as such a good adult that I might also call him.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1972	I have noticed that those who today believe that the Partnership Act is discriminatory, and it seems to be a majority in this Chamber, are representatives of the same parties who a few years ago thought that anything other than the Partnership Act was discriminatory. The use of the term 'discrimination' in this debate is therefore not credible. I ask that representatives who use the concepts think through the consequences, after the decisions are made in this law, in relation to the freedom of this society, the space of this society, and the liberality of this society to assert the view of marriage that practically the rest of the world practice and stand for. I think there should be some understanding in this Chamber, also among those who are followers of the proposal made by the Government, that many people in this country feel that there is getting tighter and less room to assert that view, when stamped in the way that has been done by many in this debate. I think we could have been there. I also think we could have been apart from the classic techniques of producing the opponents' positions as something other than what they are, and then attacking the warped image, the enemy image. This creates a greater distance between us than it really is. It is said that the Christian People's Party is against all adoption, we are against all assisted conception, etc., as the representative of May Hansen said. That is not right at all, and the representative of May Hansen knows that. And to the Council of State, when it comes to calling for our view of adoption, I can refer to the setting. That's well justified there. In particular, we have justified this with an assessment that is completely identical to - the Council of State's own - the assessment of the Children's, Youth's and Family's Directorate. It can be found in the option on page 22. I don't have time to read this from the pulpit. Finally, I would like to say that a special feature of the debate is that fathers are no longer fathers, they are carers or role models. If one assumes such a view of the parent role, I can understand that homosexuals feel discriminated against, if the reason for the massive resistance to the law changes was that homosexuals should be less suitable as caregivers. Of course, that's not the case. But children are no right, parents are more than care, and role models and skills are more than a profession with measurable variables of success. It's basically a Marxist inspired conceptual device that's used here. By reducing the father of a caregiver or a role model, the reason is that anyone other than a biological father can take his or her position. It's not a development that is desirable in Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1983	All of this first: When you hear Dagfinn Højbråten’s need for others to explain what they have thought about the Partnership Act, you can get the impression that it was the parties that are promoting common marriage law today, which was in favour of the Partnership Act, and the Christian People’s Party then probably who were in favour of common marriage law at the time, since they were in favour of something less discriminatory. I believe everyone but the Christian People's Party understands that the Partnership Act has been a step towards common marriage law, and that it has been important to get to what we are doing today. Otherwise, it is very difficult for me to get what the Progress Party believes in this matter. Siv Jensen was up in the pulpit and said that she could not understand how anyone could look at the Progress Party and its representatives as dark men. But the answer did not come long afterwards in the form of contributions from the representatives Knudsen and Anundsen, who chose to quote each of their texts. First of all, I would say that it is a rather cowardly debate technique to use quotes to promote your own views, but at the same time to be able to distance yourself. I also think, like Octay Dahl, that Knudsen should think about the attitudes he promotes, and what others think about what is being said. What do those people who don't have a father, but who are told from this pulpit that not having a father is not good enough, it's not the core family that should be able to stand up to everything? I think it is a pity that men who are so uncertain about their own role use this opportunity to ruin a day that should be a great day, a party day that we shall celebrate. There are many men in this society who are so safe on themselves and on the role they're going to play, that you don't have a problem seeing that others choose to live in other ways, either that a man lives with another man, or that two women live together. It does not impair the value of a heterophilic union or marriage. I don't think it's that important for a child what you call the parents either. I think the most important thing is that children either have a parent or two parents who are happy with them, and whether there is a man or a lady, there are also two people who play different roles, who have different things to learn away and give to a child. It's not like two mothers in a family are the same anyway. I wish we could be in addition to the somewhat sloppy attacks on a family that is different from the A4 family.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e1996	I'm not going to repeat the arguments for our vote today, but I want to make some reflections about today's debate. First of all, I ask questions about the Minister for Children's Affairs saying that this law is not about the Children's Convention. A law that has great consequences for children must always be about the Convention on the Rights of the Child. I'm wondering a little bit what she meant by just that statement. I also ask questions from the many who have said in today's debate that an investigation is not necessary, because it would not change the position of the Christian People's Party or the Advance Party. No, for the most part, that's not why we asked for an investigation. We asked for an investigation because we wanted to know more about the consequences of the changes we are making today. That's why we wanted an investigation. State councillor Meltveit Kleppa came up with it myself -- I felt it as a support for the question of spending more time, finding out more and figuring out more when she said that someone could take better time and figured out the consequences of assisted fertilization. I ask the question, did you really think it was because we were going to use it in a political game? No, it was because we needed to know more about the consequences for those relating to these legislative changes. I had expected a little more respect for different views of the changes in the law that are taking place today. I have experienced that more representatives have assigned us who have a different view than they themselves, we don't think at all, and attitudes we don't recognize. It surprises me. For one of the fundamental values of any democracy is that one has respect for the opinions of others. There has been a lack of some articles today, and I think that is sad. I very much agree with the Per-Kristian Foss representative when he says it's the attitudes that determine whether we can get a non-discrimination society. I very, very much agree with that. But if we're going to get good attitudes, we actually have to start by not attaching opinions and attitudes that we don't have. I have not known myself again in some of the characteristics that have been presented today. So to May Hansen's posts. I am disappointed that she believes that the Christian People's Party is against adoption, against assisted conception, and against the raising of children by lone-parents. I just have to say, as a lone parent for my children all these years, that I am disappointed when one believes this about our party, which has been sitting in front of us to help lonely caregivers, given good support, helped with the right to community for children who feel that their parents are moving away from each other, who want to improve the family's condition -- this has been a core issue for the Christian People's Party. We are concerned that children should also know their origin, and that is important in relation to the rights of all children.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e2011	I have tried to explain why a law where one with two sets of laws regulates the same matters, but where the distinction between one law and the other law is only about sexual orientation, is perceived as discriminatory by a minority of society. It does. But even though I myself belong to that minority and experience this as discriminatory, I have always been clear that it would be inappropriate for me to vote in favour of a common marriage law that cancels that discrimination, if such a common marriage law would contain a new discrimination, of faith societies that were forced to believe or do things that they disagreed with. That is why I have always taken the reservation in the position of common marriage law that one should ensure that the freedom of the Church and the freedom of religious communities were preserved. But then it's quite amazing to hear the representative Dagfinn Højbrätten argue that we, who belong to the majority in the hall, who defy a minority in society's experience of discrimination, should not have argued that today's two sets of laws are perceived as discriminatory because it seems narrowing in the social debate and creating a narrower society. I think the world's turned upside down. I fully respect the fact that the Christian People's Party and the Advancement Party do not think it is discriminatory, but they get the jam themselves to argue how such legislation is not perceived as discriminatory, when it actually does so by the minority it covers. So to the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen: My post went alone on how today's two-way division is perceived as discrimination. I did not touch on the question of assisted fertilisation at all. Today’s legislation, where a distinction between partnership and marriage, is discriminatory. When I and my partner, two well-dressed Right-men, associate with others in social relations that we haven't met before and introduce each other as partners, most people think it's the law firm Höie and Solvang that's on the move. It's going to be a relief to introduce each other as real husbands. But the question of assisted fertilisation is very difficult, and I am in favour of the argument that I also had when we dealt with the biotechnology law last time. However, after a long doubt, I have come to the conclusion that the consideration of the children born and their ability to know their biological origin when they are 18 years old is so heavy that I have changed my position since 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e2018	A lot of people in my generation think that's very strange about the time. It kind of goes a little fast in the swings for some of us. I remember the first time I saw a nigger! And then we went to dance and dance with a partner of opposite sex. The girls who danced with girls were the ones who could end up as murals. But luckily, the world is moving on. Studies from Sweden carried out among children with peers indicate that people and friends lack some respect, and the children themselves say that they are well, it would not have been too pressured from the outside. This shows that it is important for children to respect their family relationships. NOVA’s living conditions study also shows that homophilia is increasingly accepted. I think a lot of people in my generation will be in the future. Even at my age, I want to look forward and meet tomorrow's parents with the respect they deserve. Then one day we have to thank Kim Friele and all those in the fight for egalitarianism and against bullying and discrimination. And we as grandparent regeneration have a job to do. Our grandchildren have no predisposition. They take the world as it comes, and there we have something to learn. I also have to say, we're still going to work together here in this room. We must also have respect for each other's views. Then we're going to go out in the summer day, and then we're going to accept the new generation of children, no matter who their parents are.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e2034	Dagfinn Højbråten made himself a victim here instead, and I didn't think that was a nice sight. Obviously, we should respect the fact that there are different opinions about a matter. But on fundamental issues that deal with the right to equivalency and inclusion, I believe there is a limit. Why are those who put their legs in the gravel worthy of the greatest respect? In my view, it is all the people who have fought, even life as an effort, who deserve the greatest respect. Kim Friele was mentioned as one of the fighters, and there are many here who know something about what this has meant. The hoof showed to the world around us, that in the world today, there is a majority of his vision. Yes. He could also mention that in very many countries homophilis are prohibited. In some countries, the death penalty for the representative Knudsen is consistently referred to as ‘sexual practice’. In most countries, homophilia continues to be regarded as something ugly and sinful, aberrant and, in worst cases, criminal. In Norway, a large number of homosexuals and lesbians still take their own lives because they cannot live with shame and condemnation. Isn't this worth a sentence? Where does the limit of respect go, when those who invoke respect, are those who at the same time share in repressing others? We, as 'voting and sitting' here today, have the majority in their backs in Norway. Among young people, the elimination of discrimination is massive. The next generation is going to ask us why this didn't happen before. It's like the smoking law, just so infinitely much more important.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e2045	Only a few reflections from my side at the end of a very important debate, a debate which I also think has been good, for it has shown the different positions we have in this Chamber. It's also part of the democracy we defend and work within the framework of. This case is difficult. There are different opinions that have emerged. It challenges the values and attitudes of individuals. Within my party, there have also been different opinions, as you all know, and the representatives have been set free. We've focused on respecting the different attitudes when we've been working on the matter internally in the big group and internally in the party. I would also like to stress, when both the representative Tørresdal and the representative Højbrätten feel that they have had little respect for the positions they have expressed, that I have full respect for the positions of the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party here have expressed. I do not agree with all the arguments, and I do not agree with the views, but I respect that they have expressed their opinions in the way they have done today. Many of us have changed their mind over the years. That's what most characterizes this case. And that's part of being honest in politics, which also the State Council of Meltveit Kleppa and the Central Party representative of Rogaland, Trond Lode, underlined in their contributions. Then it gets wrong, I think - and I would like to point out - that someone who stresses that he has changed his mind, is characterised or described as a liar in a debate in Stortinget. I think that's unfortunate, and you should distance yourself from that. Finally, I would like to stress that when we vote against the proposal for compulsory civil marriage, it is because it is contrary to the desire of the Central Party to preserve a viable people's church. Today, half of all couples are married in the church, and the Senter Party still wants the Norwegian Church and other religious communities to have the right of marriage without the requirement that civil marriages should also be made in order for the marriage act to be valid. We believe that the proposal for mandatory civil marriage can in the long term weaken an inclusive and open people's church, as marriage today is a very important part of the population's relationship with the state church. In the end, the centre party will vote differently in the different cases, so I won't give any explanation of vote now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e2060	Dagfinn Højbråten has had the word three times and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e2063	I am pleased with the tone that has been given by the speakers of the Central Party in this matter. However, the tone that came from SV's speakers, at the latest now from Inga Marte Thorkildsen, we could have been spared. For what No Marte Thorkildsen did now was to give us a blatant example of what was my point, namely, that you take the opponents' positions and caricature them to the extreme -- so no Marte Thorkildsen went to land with the death penalty for homophilia to characterize the Christian People's Party. It's just an example of a form of debate that I hope we'll avoid in the future, no matter what our vision. So we have to live with the fact that all religious communities have a different view than the Storting. Many schools to teach have a different view than the Stortinget. Probably half of the population have a different view than the Storting. And in order for us then to have a free and open debate, we must be willing to respect each other to a greater extent than what we have in power here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e2068	May Hansen has had the word three times and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e2072	I have great respect for the fact that there are different views in this matter. When the representatives from the Christian People's Party say that SV attributes opinions and positions to them that they do not have, I say that in relation to the situation in this case, and in relation to the debate we have had, I can't help but understand that the Christian People's Party is against assisted conception also for heterophiles, because it is said that in the absence of father, the children rob a father. The same thing is done by adoption, you deprive your children of their biological origin. I challenged the Christian People's Party, but they haven't responded to it. And is it that the Christian People's Party is against sperm donation? I actually think you could answer that. However, this debate is about equality between lesbian, gay and heterophilic love, and also about equality of rights for children born of two parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e2079	No Marte Thorkildsen has had the word three times and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e2082	My point was this: Isn't this worth a sentence? In fact, I believe that those who are so skeptical that we are going to be fully equal to homophiles and heterophiles have an additional responsibility to point out the injustice that homosexuals and lesbians live under around the world every single day. That was my point. I think that Dagfinn Højbrätten, as the leader of the Christian People's Party, has an extra great responsibility to maintain the love of the next -- the one I share, who is not a Christian. Often I feel that I am the target of that next love. For me, it's kind of absurd. I think that in the context of campaigns such as The one about the insemination child should Dagfinn Højbråten stand in the front and say that this we take a clear distance from, we shouldn't have any of this, people aren't allowed to treat those who are too full of equality and not least gay and lesbian in Norway in that way, with such a lack of respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower.ana.ud1380e2089	As there are several speakers who have signed up, the President will propose that the morning meeting be suspended and that we continue the debates at the evening meeting, which will be held at noon. 18th@item: inlistbox - It is deemed to have been adopted.
