ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e114	The representatives of Hill-Marta Solberg, Åge Starheim and Silvia K. Kosmo, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Akershus County: Anita Orlund For Buskerud County: Knut Gerde For Rogaland County: Kjell Arvid Svendsen The request for the leave of the representative, Odd Einar Dørum, is made from the Left Group from 2 December to 4 December to take part in the meeting of the Western European Union in Paris. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. Alvhild Hedstein is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e148	Alvhild Hedstein is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e154	The President will propose the election of three presidents of the Stortinges meetings today and the rest of the current week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen, Gunn Olsen and Svein Roald Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen, Gunn Olsen and Svein Roald Hansen are unanimously elected presidents for this week’s meetings. The President will propose cases No. 1 and 2 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e183	Few points: First of all, I would like to remind you that it was the Stortinget that in its time wanted a separate payroll commission, so you wouldn't have to pay yourself. With the old system – I would remind you – we came up at regular intervals in the situation that the Storting had slowed down, and from time to time you also had to make quite large adjustments. The second thing I want to remember is that this is a 2008 paycheck, which others got in May–June. It is then much later than for other groups, and it has created ground for misunderstanding, I have noticed, in the direction that the Stortinget gets an extra paycheck. That's not the case. Therefore, the Presidency is now asking the WG to present its position rather quickly after the ordinary settlements have been made in May to June, so that no misunderstandings are created. This leads to the weakness, you might say, that you don't get the trend of leadership in the state. But it's more important that we get a settlement more in line with other groups at the time they get it. The third point is a brief comment on the minority comment from Inge Wohnning and Carl I. Hagen. I would like to remind you that pay and remuneration are something you are entitled to, but that you are not obliged to receive. I would also like to remind you that Erling Folkvord in his time went to Stortingets payrollingskontoret and got another paycheck because he did not agree that the depositors had the high salary. There were no problems for Stortinget, and of course it is so that others can. The fourth point is a comment on SV's minority comment. We have tried to clarify what is SV’s proposal for 2008, when working on the suspension, and have understood that SV will not have any supplement at all for 2008, and that SV wants to provide an equal crown supplement for the future, based on the average in the pay statements. Then my comment is that in that case this will be making the payroll commission redundant. We're bringing the question of salary to big business representatives right back into the storeroom, as we had it, and we can quickly get into the problems that I pointed out in my first point. Such a similar add-on would also mean that the Storting will systematically slow down in relation to many other groups with which it is necessary for the Storing to compare. I can't recommend that. A lot of considerations can be taken into account about wage fixing and fairness and how much we really need to pay, but for my part, I believe that it is necessary to take responsibility for our political system not getting into a completely different pay line than the other groups we have to compare with have. That's why I'm glad it seems that the majority of the Stortinges take that responsibility, and that we stick to the system that we've agreed on, that we're going to have, that's a payroll commission that proposes our wages. Of course, it has to be adopted here in the Chamber, but there's a recommendation from the payroll commission on where we should lie. The settlement proposed for this year is roughly in line with the other group received in May to June. It also applies to the salaries of the members of the Supreme Court, which is case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e198	The determination of the remuneration of the grossing-up representatives and the members of the government has always been controversial. When I first came to Stortinget in the autumn of 1974 and took part in my first debate on this, I was told, quite rightly in the rotunda, a long history back. It was once the Bond Party in Stortinget that proposed to reduce the compensation from 3,000 to 2,000 specialties, and it was unanimously adopted. After the meeting, there was a growing representative from the Bond Party who began to cry. One of the others went away and asked what was wrong. The representative admitted that he and his family would have significant financial problems when they went down in remuneration. The one who spoke to him asked, "Well, why in the world did you propose it?" He just looked out and said, "It wasn't supposed to be adopted." I've told this story before, and this has been a long time ago, so it's been a persistent problem. Some have also raised the idea that perhaps the Constitution should be amended so that the determination of the remuneration of the members of the government and the representatives of the depositors – possibly also the salary of the members of the Supreme Court, but there we have gradually found some solutions, I think – should be left to a slightly wider complex Commission. It was not only to give advice to the Storting, but it was also to decide it. It requires a change to the Constitution. It should perhaps take into account and consider all representatives in the next big picture, who are then able to promote Constitutional proposals, so that we do not have the intermes like what we are getting again today. As grossing-up President Thorbjørn Jagland said, Erling Folkvord asked for an order directly at Stortinget's accounting office without – as far as I understand – being notified of the presidency or the director, and he was allowed to withdraw a lower salary. The President-in-Office has now said – and I can say that I agree with the heart – that we should not have any bureaucratic provisions, so those representatives who feel uneasy about receiving a compensation that they think is too high should of course have the opportunity to say that it should be lower, and determine how much lower. It has to be fully possible to do. In the minority comment from Inge Wohnung and myself we also open a public register, if the point of the representatives is that this should be made visible in the public, which I have great reason to believe it is. They will appear to be moderate, appear in public as those who deal with something less than the others, who are on the shelf we've always had about high wages, and who we're always going to have. The wages and allowances are now satisfactory, they are nothing to complain about. I have a certain understanding that someone might think they're high, but that debate may go. But those who want to acquire voters, vote, and become popular by voting against, must also have opportunity, of course, in a register to publish what they have done. Then there will be consistency between life and learning. In that case, the consequences of their own policies will be taken into account. I feel like you haven't done it so far. I have examined and asked, and there is no one from the Socialist Left who has voted against an increase in the remuneration that has itself chosen to abstain from it. Nor have I found any members of the SV of the Presidency or of the chairmen of the Committee who have waived the additional remuneration of the members of the Presidency and the chairmen of the Committee. There has been no indication of any interest in relinquishing the additional allowances. We're facing a picture where I think there's little harmony between life and learning. There were some in a debate yesterday that began to compare this with the fact that if there were different large-scale representatives who voted in favour of different quotas for what to take with brandy and wine from abroad when you were travelling, it was so to understand that someone who had voted for a higher quota than the one for which it became a majority could claim that he could take the higher quota because he had voted for a higher quota. That's not the way it is, it's the other way around! We have a quota in place, and during Kristin Halvorsen's Minister of Finance, it increased to 1 litre of spirits. So you can bring up to 1 quart of spirits when you come from abroad, but it's perfectly legitimate not to bring spirits! It's completely possible, there's no obligation there. This is equivalent here. We adopt the ceiling. We decide that until that sum, a depositor can be remunerated. But everyone is free to take a lower remuneration. That's the point of the note from Inge Wage and me. Although they're in a different order, it's a consequence of SV's comment. It is an offer to the UK’s biggest representatives who feel uncomfortable by having such a high remuneration as they talk about in the public debate and in the election campaign. It's so that they don't have to have the burden that we've opened up to such an arrangement, and the president has confirmed that the Storting can do it. I would like to address the proposal concerning the members of the Government, and those who are in the political leadership of the departments. We don't need such a system here, but there may be someone in the government apparatus or in the departments that need it. If a political adviser, a state secretary or a state councillor says that he would like to have a lower remuneration than that adopted by the Stortinget, perhaps the Council of Ministers would say that they are not allowed to comply with the decision of the Stortinge. That is why we have tabled a proposal empowering the Government to put in place a similar system. It's not a directive. But there may be some in political leadership, especially from the Socialist Left Party, who feel the same discomfort by raising the pay fixed by the Stortinget, and then they should also have an opportunity to give up the remuneration they think they shouldn't have for some reason. That is why we want a concrete decision in the Stortinget, so that no ministerial councils or other ministerial staff may create difficulties for the members of the government and those in political leadership who want to take the consequences of their own positions, which I fully respect, and take the consequences of what they claim in the public debate. We'll make it possible for them to be consistent between life and learning. Now I've taken up that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e215	The representative Carl I. Hagen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e218	Storing representatives should and should be good examples in society. We should constantly strive to go ahead as a good example. For the batch SV it has always been important to show moderation. We have been one of the parties – perhaps that party – that has criticized the strongest wage growth among high pay. Once the management pay has been high, we're used to saying that we have to show moderation. We accept a wage increase among those who earn the least, but we think we have to show moderation among the high pay. Today, we're going to deal with wages and salaries, the wages and salaries of big business representatives, who have a good salary, and who come in the high-wage group. We therefore believe that it is also important that we show moderation when we are to pay for our seas. We have received an adjustment from a commission that has recommended an amount. We believe that that amount is too high, and therefore we want a more moderate wage trend, so that we go ahead as a good example to other highly paid groups. That is why we have actually made a proposal today – and I am addressing that proposal – where we want a more moderate wage trend. Then I'm surprised that it's created a huge commitment to the presidency because a party has that vision, that it's almost not legitimate to claim the view that a person wants a more moderate wage development. The representative, Hagen, was concerned that there has been a lot of work around this matter lately. Yeah, who created it now? Who created that circus in the last few days around the proposal from SV? At least that's not SV. It is the other members of this Chamber who have contributed to it. We have put forward a proposal in the Chamber that we should want a more moderate wage trend and that grubbing-up representatives should take the lead as a good example. It must be legitimized in the national Parliament without any motive added to it that you do not have. Then it's said that SV doesn't correspond to life and learning. Yes, we have now, every year in SV, whether we have been in municipal government, county councils or big business, had a party tax. We also go to the accounting office. I have registered with the accounting office that all our representatives per. 6 pst is to be withdrawn today. of gross wages and salaries. From 1 October we have decided to increase it to 8 pst. of gross wages and salaries. We also go to the accounting office and withdraw, and we use that money to strengthen the party organisation for all those who work voluntarily, so that one gets paid for actual expenses. That's the way we've done it, and I'll say is the similarity between life and learning. I also record that we are receiving unexpected support, even from Trygve Hegnar. I looked at a debate last night, where he characterised both the representative Wage and the representative Hagen with words that surprised me, but I must agree with that. So SV is not alone in this case, we also get support from another team. So we have to be allowed to make proposals that we think are right. There is no individual wage fixing in Stortinget. We want to get the whole Biggest on that proposal. If we lose that vote, we lose that vote, we lose that vote, we lose it, we lose it, we lose it, we lose it, we lose it, we lose it, we lose it, we lose it, we lose it, we lose it, we lose it, we lose it, we lose it, we lose it, we lose it, we lose it, we lose it, we lose it, we lose it, we lose it, we lose it, we lose it, we lose it, we lose it, we lose it, we lose it, we lose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e233	The representative of Inge Ryan has taken up the proposal to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e238	Inge Ryan mentioned management wages. Then is my first question: is it not so to understand that the Government, where SV is a member, has not made any attempt to limit the trend of senior pay in the country in terms of wage and salary making, but that, on the contrary, more and more of the managers have switched to personal wage and salary agreements? Where, then, is the context of what he's saying? So Inge Ryan says that SV is in favour of moderate wage development. Can he please confirm that for 2008 SV does not want wage developments at all, but a zero settlement for government members and government councils? When you're talking about a moderate payroll and a crown supplement instead of a percentage supplement, which crown supplement or what group of other employees is it SV wants us deposit representatives and government members to be based on? What amount of money from the 2008 settlement is what he has in mind?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e245	In terms of wage developments for managers, which was the first question from Hagen, we have always been critical of the salaries that leaders grant. We have repeatedly in the Storting and in the media expressed that we believe that one should be mindful. So we've been very clear in all respects that leaders should show more moderation in relation to the salaries they grant sail. So to the second question of moderate wage development: yes, over time, gross wages have increased significantly. It has risen from approx. 500000 kroner when I arrived at Stortinget seven years ago, from 520,000 kroner then until today. That's why we believe that since we're facing challenging times today, we should go ahead with a good example and say that we can refrain from raising wages this year, but that we'll go into a crown supplement later on. How to calculate that addition – which is Hagen's third question: There are people who are able to calculate better than me, people who work in administration, who can find average wage developments in society. This must be possible for those who work with the kind of questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e252	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e255	After having been present in this room for several years and fixed its own salary, and occasionally has been able to read in newspapers that we do it with a little shame and bending glance and do it without saying a word, it is nice to be present during a treatment where it is allowed to say what a person means. I would like to take this opportunity to do so. The left does not sit in the presidency, and can thus make its view valid in this way. First of all, I have to say – I also remember a time before we had this payroll commission, where it might seem that there should be more open treatment on the Stortinget – that I strongly supported the transition to a payroll commission to get a professional recommendation and assessment, and assume that one should be loyal to the setting that comes. There's someone outside of us who decides, but we're the ones who decide anyway. It's been an important principle. Then I would like to say the following: I have voted many times in favour of the salary increase recommended by the Parliamentary Chair. I have done it with a good conscience and with great boldness every time. If someone I'm convinced deserves the compensation they get, adopted in this room, it's the representatives of the Storting. If I can be allowed to use this opportunity to say – I have never seen anyone do it from this pulpit – that for many years in this hall, day and night in this house, I have experienced colleagues who work hard and who have a great responsibility. Many take personal offenses to be able to perform their duties. Many relinquish important, different careers. The compensation provided for is deserved. I've never meant anything else, and I think it's important that you say that sometimes, because you find yourself being dogged in the media and in different contexts. You have to do a good job, but you don't have to be boasted about doing a good job. I know I boast of myself too. As you know, I don't have any problems doing that, but I would like to use this opportunity to boast of all my colleagues. The compensation adopted today is deserved and is correct. I also think we should be able to say that with clear words from this speaker. We also fix wages and salaries for state councils and prime minister. I have had the pleasure of being the Council of State on a couple of occasions, and I had the pleasure of following closely a Prime Minister's responsibility and work. I've expressed it several times, including in this room, that the most demanding and most difficult job you can have in the Norwegian community is to be a prime minister. The salary received by the Prime Minister for his work is well deserved. I also believe that there are not so many others who should serve so much more than the country's prime minister, and who have hardly earned it, but it is beyond this debate. There's something different than us in this room that rules. I also think it's important to say. Then it's right to say that the efforts and responsibilities of the state councils are so great that I believe the compensation they get here is well deserved. So it's interesting to be reminded of the story I've also been allowed to be part of. I had the pleasure of being a one-group representative, as colleague Erling Folkvord, between 1993 and 1997. We didn't share offices, but we were pretty close. We had to work day and night to keep up with all the big groups. We sometimes shared joys and sorrows. I was well acquainted with Erling Folkvord's strong view, that he would have no other salary than the one he had in the Department of Oslo Municipality, and made an appointment after which he received it. I think I was right about that. I respected it, I thought it was great. I deeply disagreed with the choice he made, but I respected it. I am aware that this is an occasion that has been there all along. I haven't heard of anyone else choosing it. You have rather chosen to protest for the world, but be on your way. I respect Erling Folkvord's way of doing it, even if I disagreed. Then there is a proposal today that gives the members of the Government and the government system politicians the opportunity to take some sort of personal sever in the wage setting. I don't know if I think there's any big point in this context, even though we have a government that's good at taking that type of theses. As much as they protest for all the world, but are in the process of the government apparatus, I think they may be so in this context as well. So I see no reason to vote for that neglected. I just want to remind you that there's a practice where there's an opportunity – Erling Folkvord – to make a reservation. It could be respectful of that. Then I think everyone else who decides that they want this salary increase should receive it with great boldness. That is what our leading elected representatives deserve, and it should be said clearly from this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e277	It is necessary to say something about one point on which the representative Inge Ryan came in, in order to clarify what we are talking about. Inge Ryan said that SV goes in for moderation. He then refers to what SV believes about the development of management wages. In this context, we need to know what we're talking about. Leader pay trends among business leaders are different from the trend of head pay in central government and, to a large extent, government enterprises. You can keep it outside now. You can keep the whole business out of it. What we're talking about, and what we should keep clear about in this case, is the leadership wage development in central government. It is the responsibility of the politicians in the government. There has been no moderation by the government politicians in terms of wage developments in central government, nor in the Ministry of Finance or other departments managed by SV. That's the problem we're facing. Leader pay developments in central government are likely to have been well above 6 p.p. It is a political responsibility that this happens. I believe that if you're going to talk about wage developments, you have to consider this, and you have to start there. I would recommend that the government start there and get this under control. If you look at how this has developed in a wide range of departments, we have actually come into the situation that, for example, Ministerial councils make about twice as much money as government representatives. I don't want to go into exact numbers, but I just say something about what this is all about. Then it's not moderation we're facing. There is a run-down political process, which means that leaders in central government have received significant supplements. Then you come and say that the Storting will turn the clock back and get a completely different situation than the one that was at the settlement in May-June, and what has become the leadership wage development this year. I think it's a little important that we now get clarity about what we're talking about. You can't talk diffusely about management wages and talking about these million amounts you're operating with in DnB NOR, in Hydro i and other businesses. I find it particularly sad to see how it has evolved there. What we need to talk about in this context is, in fact, the development of leadership wages that we politicians are responsible for, and that is in central government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e291	The President-in-Office of the Council is right in saying that it is a political responsibility to show moderation, and then you have to have control, says the President-in-Office of the Council. And then SV recommends that we start with ourselves. It's a difficult time we're living in right now, and as everyone says, this is a paycheck from last year. No one has disputed it at all. The question is, is it right to do it now? Is it necessary to do that now? It's a political question we're talking about, and I'm surprised that the prime minister is so out of the ordinary that he makes big business representatives and the government's remuneration a personal and private matter – a moral issue, not a political issue. I must say, I'm very surprised. There is a reduction in a commission. It was because one should avoid discomfort by taking a decision on his own salary, but we cannot turn away from that responsibility anyway. I have respect for the representative Sponheim, who is up and argues for why he believes it is right to do as he does. Storting President Igland also partly argues why he believes it is right to increase the pay now. That, I think, is factual arguments. But we disagree. That is a political point of view, and it must be allowed to do so. We are promoting the proposals we want to adopt. We have a responsibility for having a fair and proper salary. If we look at the nomination processes going on in the counties, at least it doesn't seem to me that it's very difficult to get people to make elections for the Storting because the working conditions are too difficult and the wages are too low here. So no one needs to sit and cry if we adopt SV's proposal today, because you don't get the ends to meet with the salaries we have today. Wages are good. It's not sky high – it's good. It's good enough to recruit, and so that very many people want to get to the Storting, because it's an interesting, exciting, responsible and very important job with reasonable and good working and pay conditions. There will always be a very great discomfort when this matter is discussed. The noise around this case is actually other than SV that has created. But I'm a little surprised at the commitment put into assigning those who have a different view, other positions and other motives for what they're doing, than what they actually have. Our motive is that the Storting should go ahead in a time that is difficult for very many. There are very many people who have responsible, heavy jobs, boring and difficult jobs, who even experience uncertainties in these days. That's the jobs they have to do for a much lower salary than what we have. It is this general argument that we believe that the Storting should now take over and actually consider SV’s proposal seriously. Then we let go of this – sorry, President – the debate on whether this is a personal responsibility to take or not. Otherwise, I feel quite sure that Erling Folkvord did it like SV, namely, sent the money he did not receive in the big pay, to the party. In a TV debate yesterday, I think that the arguments for having a higher salary in Stortinget came out badly, when the representative Carl I. Hagen said in English: «If you pay peanuts, you get monks.» I think it all says a view of other people in a society that we depend on to do all the important jobs – in the shops, washing schools and old homes and all our businesses – that will then do these jobs for the whole of society to work. There is no one who sees any kind of realism in that these are people who are going to serve as much as a giant representative. But they are clearly to be regarded as monkeys, according to Hagen's argument, because they find themselves working for so low a salary. It says everything about why you think you should have such a salary yourself, while others obviously shouldn't have it. I agree, and I think it's better, that we get the Grandfather's paycheck closer to other pay adjustments during the year, as the Grandfather says. I think that's going to make it more consistent, and that you see what you're dealing with, that's the paycheck from last year. But regardless of that, the Storting can never get away from the responsibility of deciding whether it is politically correct and necessary to raise the salaries of the depositors at the time you decide. Now SV believes that it is neither necessary nor politically correct. We believe that this is an important question, where the Storting could now send out a signal that I think would be positive in large sections of the population, that we are showing restraint at a time that is insecure for many.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e308	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e311	I have a great sense of the view that society has come into this situation because of the financial crisis that we should have a very moderate settlement next year. Wouldn't it be better then that SV took an initiative that the Storting and the Government together went ahead in what is going to happen to spring? That's what's the point here, that's to spring we get a new settlement, and that's when we all have to show social responsibility. What happened in the settlement in May-June was that the government accepted a salary settlement that now turns out to be around 6 p.m., and that there has been a leadership wage development then of over 6 p.m. If you wanted to show moderation, you could have done it. But if you want to get something positive, big business and government could agree on a common position in the settlement that comes in May. We have arranged for this to be done by means of the fact that the Wage Commission is now going to come up with its position around that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e318	There's nothing wrong with starting that work today, that Stortinget's sea is going ahead and taking the initiative to start the moderation that SV thinks we're all going to show ahead because the country is in a difficult situation. I can't see that there's any contradiction between taking such an initiative towards our people in the government and getting the government to work on this long-term, and that the Storting Seas are taking an initiative today and going ahead. Despite the fact that this is a question of – that is quite correct – wage-setting from last year, it is of great relevance that we are already at a salary level which is not bad at all today and which should be able to live with in the future for the depositors. I believe it is right to start with that job today, and that the Stortinge can go ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e325	Karin Andersen chose to draw up a single sentence from a debate program yesterday, and she took it completely out of her context. She gives me the statement, even though I allowed myself to quote something I think it was Trygve Hegnar who wrote a few years ago. I did not say that I agreed to the statement at all, as Karin Andersen admits to me. I largely share the views of Lars Sponheim on the big business representatives, who work hard and deserve a good reward. My question to Karin Andersen is: Where does SV think the level of compensation for a rating representative should be? It might sound like she thought it should be like the average population. That's a good point of view. But if that's SV's position, it would be interesting if they publicly dare to say what the position is. So my specific question no. 1 is: What level does SV believe that the remuneration of the depositors should be on? Question no. 2: Do Karin Andersen and SV think that it makes sense with such a low remuneration that there will be a growing number of people who do not believe that they can choose careers and responsibilities over a different career?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e332	We believe that the salary of the big business representatives today is good, that it is a good level. No one in our house has called for it to be lowered. On the other hand, we have been working for many years to eliminate the good pension schemes of the depositors and to get a pension scheme in line with what is otherwise in the state. On that question, it's a very simple answer. We have not taken a decision on anything else. I wonder if Hagen can repeat that second question? It failed for me. Are you all right, President?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e339	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e342	The first question and comment were about the error quotes from a TV show yesterday.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e347	No, it was a question no. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e352	Yes, the question...
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e357	The president can almost not allow such a communication here, so I think we'll get rid of it and get back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e361	The representative, Andersen, said we should take the SV's proposal seriously, and I intend to do that. In that proposal SV has promoted in the matter today, we note that it says: ‘As a general rule, the regulation of the remunerations of gross domestic product representatives and government councils shall follow wage developments in working life, measured in crowns of the last year.’ If I have understood correctly, SV is today going to vote against an increase in salary. You want the same salary as you had before this case came. But if we were to take SV's proposal seriously, and if this had been adopted earlier, the proposal would have actually resulted in a supplement and a salary increase, as the proposal for SV is formulated. Then I just want to ask the following two questions: is it so that there's a connection between what SV actually proposes, a proposal that we take seriously, and what you're going to vote on? Can the representative, Andersen, tell with exactly what amount of Swedish krone is going to increase the gross salary now, in line with the proposal they have made?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e373	It's true that we've thought that this year's gross salary is good enough and that it can be the way it is. But we have promoted a new principle. It's that when the payroll is done, you can see what the average raise in crowns has been for the total payroll. And then you can put on what's the average in the population. It's the percentage that if you're calculating, for example, 5 pst. of a low salary and 5 pst. of a high salary, there's a very big difference in crowns. That's after all the dollars and cents people have to spend when they're going to pay their bills and make up for their daily expenses. Therefore, we believe that if not the gap between a high salary and those who have a lower salary is to be too high, it is a reasonable principle to average the amount of the crown in the salary bill that year.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e380	I have every respect for the representative's statement that a political position must be allowed. But then I might pay attention to one and not more. In this case, SV has several political positions. The SV State Council of Grande Røys, as a State negotiating party, is responsible for the settlement of salaries in the State. In the country, what has been characterised as a moderate settlement has ended. It's a little over 6.2 pst. So it's going to have 6.2 pst. for grossing-up representatives also be moderate. Question 2: What does SV think politically should be the signal for next year's salary settlement? Now two previous replicators have tried to ask the representative about it. This is about politics. SV has power. SV is in government position. But you're not able to express a single opinion about what's going to be a moderate settlement in the interim next year. I am calling for the SV's position on this political matter, at least.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e387	What we are dealing with today is the wages of the big business representatives. The deficit will determine whether our wages and salaries will be increased as a result of the 2008 wage-fixing. The SV’s group has taken a decision on this, and believes that it is not needed at this time. It's a wrong signal, because we're in a political situation that requires a little bit more of us. It will be a correct signal from Stortinget to send in towards the payroll settlement for spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e392	That's not what I asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e397	Then we'll have to discuss both internally with our own and in the government how that race is to be settled. I cannot speak on behalf of the Government in this matter. I'm a staging representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e402	How about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e407	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e410	It was heard from the final replication that the reason for SV’s proposal this time is that we are in a very special situation in 2008. If I don't remember completely wrong, we've been in the same special situation every year, because this is a reprisal of a well-known performance that SV tends to perform every year when we handle the corresponding setting. The representative Karin Andersen said that she thinks it's a healthy principle to start with herself. Actually, so do I. That is why we have made an offer to which we can either refuse or accept. The reason why it has been put forward in the form of proposals is that this debate is not just about the salary of the payroll representatives, as Karin Andersen said, it is also about the salary of the members of the government. If this opportunity is to be opened up also to the Government, the neat way is to do it on a proposal like that of Carl I. Hagen and I have allowed us to put forward, to give the Government the power to initiate the same thing. There is a Power The Government can use or not use. It doesn't force anyone. SV's parliamentary leader called on Trygve Hegnar, and that is a good company, of course! Trygve Hegnar has claimed that this proposal should be some sort of bullying of a party on Stortinget. In this case, it must be the smartest form of bullying that Norway's history has ever seen. No one imposes anything, we just remind ourselves of some rather simple, universal human principles. It is claimed from SV team that the power of the example should be what should be considered. Yes, if you have great faith in the power of the example, it's not unreasonable to test it out. What is the leaping point in the setting is the sentence: ‘The Presidency refers to the decision of the Grand Duchy’s Wage Commission in accordance with the mandate given by Stortinget.’; It establishes an overall presidency, including the SV member of the Presidency. From that point of view, the Stortinget only has two possible ways: either you accept the arrangement we have – when you find that the Wage Commission has done exactly what the Storting itself has ordered it to do – or you abandon the scheme and insist that the Stortinget determine its own remuneration each year on a free basis. What you can't do is, as you can imagine, put aside the recommendation of the Wage Commission, while at the same time you can see that it has done what the Storting has asked it to do. I perceived Inge Ryan's posts so that he also interprets the SV's proposal so that if it were to be adopted, it means in practice to cancel the payroll commission, for a payroll commission to calculate a crown sum, there is probably no need for it. But it might have been useful if SV had then done it explicitly, clearly, in its proposal that that is what you think – that the Stortinget should once and for all go away from the pay commission scheme and go back to the scheme that you had with self-determining pay on a free basis. Many interesting general debates can be held on whether the compensation received by Norwegian parliamentarians is high, reasonable or low, but there is only one way to establish such a debate in the real world: to make a simple comparison with other European countries, for example. our Nordic neighbouring country. That would be relevant. As far as I have been able to gain experience, our Norwegian level is quite exactly where the Nordic tradition lies, i.e. relatively, in the relationship between the remuneration of large-scale representatives and government councils and the salary level in the respective countries. There is nothing in our Norwegian situation that points out as an exception. I said that I have a sense of Andersen's principle approach – to start with myself.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e434	I'm not going to be very concrete or precise on what's fair pay or fees for a big-time representative. Someone can honestly and honestly believe that 700,000 kroner is too much, and I think that Sponheim had a very good post, he was inside that 700,000 kroner was also too small. So you might want to talk about average gross pay, that it might hit a little bit right anyway. But I record that this year, too, when the debate comes, the debate is absent about those who make elections, are elected and spend a lot of their time and careers working as big-time representatives or in government. They're forgotten. Because I think there are probably representatives among us who had a market value far beyond NOK 700,000 – and then I'm careful – if they had chosen differently, that maybe, if they had jumped off the career as a politician and entered into other industries outside this house and outside the government quarter, they would have collected much higher wages, maybe as much as both 2, 3 and 4 million. kr, but which for quite other reasons chooses to receive a fee of SEK 700000, with a background of enthusiasm, idealism, with a background in the desire to work with politics, change systems and perhaps improve society. They choose a much lower salary level, choose to neglect a lot of the family, neglect friends, neglect other interests, through 16, 17, 18 hours a day every single day throughout the year. They are also forgotten in this year's debate. It seems to me that someone now strongly wants to signal that the criterion of being elected as a staging representative is that during the nomination process you sign that you should not have more than average industrial workers' wages to put yourself on the electoral lists. Yes, what is the average wage paid by industrial workers? I have been working as an industrial worker for 20 years before I entered the Stortinget, and not one of those 20 years have I had average industrial workers' wages. I have been far above average industrial workers' wages, even though I have been working as an industrial worker for 20 years. Does this also mean that industrial workers, all of them, are going to fall on average industrial workers' wages? Because that must be what you mean when you're basically so concerned about it. If an industrial worker had today spent as many hours as some of the representatives in this house do through their work, an industrial worker’s salary would probably have passed 700,000 kroner per year – if there were no restrictions on overtime work. But I know that as an industrial worker over 20 years, I could earn far more than that as a wholesaler can serve today, if I put an effort into it and worked more than 7 1⁄2 hours each day. No one's discussing it. Maybe we should have done that. So some people now believe that NOK 700,000 is an acceptable level for a big business representative. I think it's a little strange, because you haven't thought of it before – you've said year after year that the adjustment of the gross fee was supposed to be the average crown amount. If these people who believe it had been passed, the fee for a deposit agent today might have passed 500,000 kroner. This means to me that those who now believe that the fee is acceptable today accept a significantly higher salary level compared to what they have thought before and over many years. That's why you should be a little bit principled about that as well. Now it's a little bit difficult to find an average amount of heads. I think it's completely impossible to find it, because you don't know which groups to compare with. I, who came into the Storting as a 37-year-old and had worked for 22 years in industry and other areas before that, know at least that it was completely impossible to compare with others. But it's clear that if it's the average crown amount you're going to have, and you're going to see it in relation to having a salary of 700,000 kroner, the tax amount you're going to have to pay will eat up more of the average crown amount for someone who makes 700,000 dollars than that would do for those who earn much less. So that means you want a lower settlement for those with higher incomes than for those with lower incomes. I think we'll have this debate later, too, but I think it's okay to get it. What's the problem with such a debate is that the minority here will always get out better. It's because those who sit in the lodge next to you will play on what's so very important – envy. They will not be reflected or objective when presenting these kinds of debates. Of course, they'll compare a big-time representative or a government council or a prime minister to the average for most people, without taking into account the number of hours worked throughout a whole year, the burden of being in public, and all these hours spent both night and day in this house. That is what I say, who must honestly admit that I should have done with far lower fees than what I have today. But that's why I trust that there are people outside this house who care about what should be the fees of a big business representative. I accept that. I also did that at the time the Commission said that the staging representatives should not have anything. And if the Commission had said the same thing as SV, that we're going to reduce our fee, I probably would have tacitly agreed to it as well. I think that one should be a little more insightful and a little more objective when discussing fees for big business representatives. Let me also say that when we discussed this in our big group, there was a state politician who said that he would go against the attitude of the payroll commission because he thought it was worrying that the gagningsrepresentatives now began to approach the paychecks of state politicians. I believe that if we are to have a debate on fees or salaries for politicians, at whatever level it is, we should not just hang out representatives of big business. Because that's what this is all about. It's about hanging out big business representatives, creating so much envy out in the Norwegian community that you almost feel bad at heart because you've made choices to represent party and voters in your own county at a time when it's becoming tougher and tougher to represent through our National Assembly.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e451	There's no way on long suffering stories we're going to hear today about how difficult it is to sit on the Storting, and how tough and terrible it is this honorable, interesting and exciting work we have, which is well paid. It would be absolutely impossible if the Stortinget, as the Sandberg representative is now talking about, was to have a payroll system where it was taken into account that some people were going to get salaries in the millions class, as they seemed to, in Sandberg's view, to question sitting on the Stortinget. Sitting on the Storting is a mission of trust. It's one of the most interesting jobs you can have in society, and it's pretty well paid. That's SV's main message. We want less pay differentials. We've had a fundamental view of this. We have been promoting this proposal for many years, and we have not been making any headway. That is why we have had to repeat the proposal again and again. That's why the argument that we're gradually accepting this salary level is wrong, because if you had applied other principles in the past, we would have had a different system in the future. This is interesting with market value. That's why it's of course important that the gross pay stays at a reasonable level, but I've never thought that it's necessarily the way to do a much better job if you get, let me say, 200,000-300,000 more a year. On the contrary, I think the fact that the Storting has a good but reasonable salary level means that respect for the Greatness of society is otherwise greater than it would have been. I don't think that in Norwegian society is acceptable for big business representatives to have much higher wages than others. And I think that's important. I'm a little surprised by the very large personal commitment that many people show in this matter – what it is that makes them think it is so crucial that the Storting is now raising wages as strongly as you are doing right now. We are right now in a nomination process where at least I do not know that there are problems in any party in recruiting competent candidates who are clear and more than willing to enter into this work with the pay and working conditions we have today. So we solve this matter easily by saying that the Storting joins the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e469	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e472	I record that this commitment to SV and Karin Andersen is of a principle nature. And principles should be carefully listened to. Principles I'm assuming are something you want to live up to and live by. Now we know that it is entirely possible for the representative Karin Andersen to dismiss parts of his salary. I would very much like to know if Karin Andersen, who has such a principle approach to this question, believes that the salary is now too high, and is willing to take advantage of the opportunity to dismiss parts of his salary. In addition, the representative Karin Andersen is also the chairman of the committee and thus receives his own salary supplement. So she has a higher salary than me, which is not committee chairman. Would the representative, Karin Andersen, consider dissociating herself from the additional allowance she receives, which many others in this house do not have?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e481	The salary of staging representatives, committee leaders and members of the government is the fundamental question that we are going to address today. So we're going to decide on a salary level for example. the deposit representatives. The point of SV's proposal is that we believe it would be right that the Storting had now sent out a signal that we see that the situation is difficult, and that we, who have a reasonable salary level, would therefore choose to be a little more modest right now than the majority of the Storing seems to be. So this is not a private question, a question about what I'm doing with the payroll I might get. I can assure the representative that there are many possibilities to use the money you get in the pay bag to support various very good purposes – it will probably be possible to do so. The point here is not that the Storting itself lacks money and needs this money. The point here is that you signal that you're willing to keep your own pay level at a slightly more moderate level than the majority want.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e492	Karin Andersen now repeated what she said in her post, namely that this is situational, that is right now. There is nothing in the setting as the reason for SV's suggestion. And the SV's proposal is practically identical to what was going on at this very time last year. You have to make up your mind about one of the parts. If this proposal has been put forward every year, it cannot be justified in the name of propriety that this year we have a state of emergency, and that is why we are proposing exactly the same thing as we proposed last year. One must almost decide for one of the components, for a minimum of political positions must be that there is a certain connection in them.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e499	I understand that the representative has misunderstood the proposal, so the proposal is based on a principle to regulate wages in the future. Otherwise, we have said that the situation now calls for extra attention because we are in a tough situation, and that there is now reason not to increase wages the way it is done by the payroll commission. This means that both a new principle is put in place on how wages should be regulated in the future, and taking into account a political situation, such as the one that is now, as we believe the Stortinge had insisted on a slightly more modest wage increase than the representative of Wage thinks he should have.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e506	Zero is relatively modest, I agree with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e511	The representative, Andersen, believes that wholesalers should set a good example. Then I would like to know why SV's deposit representatives cannot go ahead with a good example, as the representative Wohnning suggested on the speaker's chair instead. Why can't we take the consequences of our own policies and show us others in this room how responsible and how morally responsible the SV's representatives are, and say that we abstain from this increase in wages, we vote in favour of the proposal by Carl I. Hagen and the representative Inge Wohnning? What is it that doesn't make SV's grossing-up representatives say they're going ahead with a good example – here, the Norwegian people, we're abstaining from the salary increase? Then it does not help to give the money to SV as a party, because we are talking about using the taxpayers' money and giving it to SV as a party. I can also give money to the Church's Emergency Help or to other things, of my salary, but that's not what I go around and boast about. I ask: why can ́t SV’s deposit representatives now say that we refrain from this salary increase? We have the moral sense that we do not want to spend the taxpayers' money. We want to give them back to the people.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e520	It seems that there are many representatives here who are not quite able to understand that it is the Stortingen who will decide on this matter today. So it's the Storting that's going to decide on this pay fixing. I have to say I'm a little surprised at this commitment for my own salary. But it is not about the morals of each representative or what each representative should spend his money for. This is a political issue to be addressed by the majority of the Storting. We have put on the table proposals for what we think is politically correct, and we are asking for Storting's support for our proposals because we believe they are correct. What SV's individual representatives or SV's group decide to do in that case, we have to decide for ourselves. At least there are no individual representatives from the Progress Party to decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e529	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e532	As far as I am concerned, it is Karin Andersen alone who represents SV's group in this debate. That is why I feel the urge to ask for clarification of what is called the political principle in this context. Firstly, is it correctly understood that the SV's proposal involves the termination of the payroll commission and the return to the system of the Stortinget before the establishment of the payroll commission? It must be possible to answer. Secondly, if this is to be a pay policy principle for the Norwegian State, and the SV is in government position and even has the posts of the Council of State which are all the leaders of public sector wage settlements and of the government agency serving the government councils, is it to be understood that this proposal is meant to be the beginning of a completely new public sector wage policy? I have registered that SV has just submitted its political demands in connection with a possible still red-green government, and I have not registered that this point is included. It should have been, because this will revolutionize pay policy in Norway. The reason why I think it is important to clarify this is that if political principles are to demand credibility, there must be a minimum degree of consistency in them. If there is no minimum degree of consistency, there is only one possible conclusion to draw, namely that the principle is meant for the gallery and not for the political reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e545	Karin Andersen gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e549	As far as the issue of the payroll commission is concerned, we have not yet submitted that proposal, but I agree that if you apply such a principle to determine the salary of the Enlargement, it will mean that the payroll commission is in principle superfluous. So I agree. This is not a warning of a different pay policy in the public sector. This is a question of policy on how politicians should set their own wages. We think it's a separate question, but it's related to how society else is and how we view leadership wages in general. Then I'm not talking particularly about executive wages in the state, but I'm talking about executive wages that help raise the salary level, which makes the pay gap increase. That's SV against.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e556	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2. Councillor Terje Riis-Johansen exceeded 1 kg. [[See page 913]] [[see Unit]] proposition
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e576	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e585	The good proposal of the Christian People's Party addresses an important topic. It makes the potential for saving energy in society visible. It is an important part of the total energy supply. We should produce as much energy as possible in a prudent and cost-effective way, and then we should use it in the best possible way and, in fact, in the least possible way. Such an approach is good for the nation, but also for the individual household and enterprise, which can save money to reduce their energy consumption. When the IEA presented its energy study for 2008, energy efficiency improvement was also the most important means of reducing energy consumption. It accounted for more than half the potential of the IEA. The other part was about to turn energy production from nuclear power and purified fossil energy into renewable energy. The government announced that an increase, or energy efficiency improvement, would be a priority area in the energy communication. That would be good, because then a general approach had been adopted to this, looking up to consumption, looking up to production and the long-term trend. Unfortunately, the message has been scrambled. After having experienced Political Quarter this morning, I understand well why it happened, because this government shows that they are obviously unable to agree on policies and instruments in important political matters in the Oil and Energy Department. It was also similarly disappointing that the Minister of Energy, to hide this disagreement, said that now it was important to take individual cases and get them dealt with, which any previous government has been able to do in parallel with making groceries. So the councils did not list energy efficiency improvement as one of the priority areas. It probably doesn't mean they've scraped all the work, but it's not of the highest priority areas, except in a debate where we only discuss energy efficiency improvement. That is why Stortinget has today a good opportunity to put the theme back on the priority list. A potential study, as proposed by the Christian People's Party, is supported by an overall opposition, as well as a low-energy selection, as proposed by an overall opposition, allows this work to continue and be based on what the Energy Council has presented to the Government just now, even if the energy message was scoffed. It can give us a broad approach from non-political experts, which means that the next government independently of color has a document it can work with, which you don't have today. Today, a lot of things happen piece by piece, and in addition, politicians often limit the range of technologies and solutions. It gives us worse and more expensive solutions than we wish. Therefore, this work must enter into good forms that turn into action. Now there are a number of studies and reports, but little happens. The development of the red-green government has even been negative; one of the reports on energy consumption, for example, sees it. non-residential buildings. Government Parties ask the Government to consider an energy efficiency improvement investigation in the setting. So they only ask that it be assessed. This means that the opposition is too weak. It neither obligates nor renders the Government particularly responsible. There has been no lack of things that this government should consider, many of them are enough, but there has been a lack of decision in the Storting that obliges the Government to actually deliver something, and not just scrape it when it itself is unable to find solutions. There have probably been action packages for the most part, if you look at bioenergy, the industrial power regime – the list can be almost endless. But there is none of this that has been submitted to the Storting for decision. Thus, the Government has committed itself to nothing other than its own promises and media tunes on what is to be delivered, and it can go free from any criticism and fair political treatment in this Chamber. Therefore, it is important to take decisions and not just ask the Government to do something that it can scrape without having consequences. All sectoral organisations in the energy sector say that the instrument and objectives of the Government are not linked. The small power industry, the wind power industry, the Norwegian Bioenergy Association, the District Heating Association and those involved in energy efficiency improvement say that there is no match between the objectives and the instrument. We can look at what is happening in the European Union, where the ambitions are generally smaller, but where they deliver at least what is in style, and where one in the long run achieves greater results rather than having great ambitions one cannot concretely concrete. That is why the Christian People's Party's proposal for a potential study is good, and an overall opposition supports it. In addition, the proposal for a low-energy sample is good, and there is also an overall opposition behind it. I've been visiting a number of companies over the past few weeks. All of them show that they have a high potential to save energy, but they need a framework and instruments from the effective authorities. Unfortunately, it doesn't look like they're getting yet, but the proposal today, if it's passed, can oblige the government to start work in a more real way. With this I take up the proposals of the Progress Party and the opposition parties Right, Christian People's Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e606	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e609	In a world that screams for energy, and where climate change can threaten the lives of many people, it is absolutely necessary that we in Norway also think about how we use our energy, and whether we can use it in a better way than what we do today. There are undoubtedly great possibilities for that. We have traditionally had good access – ample access really – to reasonable energy in several forms in this country. We have so far, given the level of income in this country. Our infrastructure is underpinned by the same consumption pattern that we are challenging today through energy efficiency improvements in a number of areas – and perhaps in two areas in particular: in the transport sector and within the way we use energy in our buildings. There is a high potential for energy efficiency improvement, not least among households, construction and transport, as pointed out in the proposal. It's obviously the government's focus in this area. That is wrong, as the rapporteur just said. To take the transport area first. The government has invested in a tax conversion in a greener and more environmentally friendly direction. This is also about energy efficiency improvement. The government is now betting more than ever on public transport. This is also energy efficiency improvement. This relationship will strengthen this government in the years to come. There will be a clear indication of an energy conversion in the transport sector, and there will be a much better energy efficiency in the instruments and proposals coming from the Government. So the Council of State, by letter to the Committee, says: ‘The most environmentally friendly kilowatt hour is the one that is not used and efficiency measures are often cheaper than investing in new production.’ Of course, that's absolutely right, and I'm going to end up with that. In the case of electricity, two aspects should be emphasised in my view. Point 1: Measures to reduce the use of electricity in individual buildings at the same time as measures to mitigate the growth of consumption. That is also mentioned in the proposal. The second ratio is the conversion of energy use from high-processed electricity to e.g. district heating in the case of heating. It is also included in the proposal. But is it necessary to carry out potential studies in order to increase the appetite for action in these areas? That's the question. As far as the measures are concerned, Enova is one of the major instruments in its possession. I don't need to repeat the increase and reinforcement of Enova's opportunities right within this area, which this government has provided, but it's a significant change – yes, it's almost black and white from before 2005 until now and the years that come. The results that you can refer to through Enova could have been better. With the resources now available to Enova, within the possibilities and themes included in the proposal, there is no doubt that there is the presence of – let us say – that has been established over the years of this government. The main question in this case is how do you achieve results? Is this achieved by reducing new samples and new, wide-ranging investigations, or by implementing measures in line with what I have mentioned? I have noticed that in the six cases of the Energy and Environment Committee on the agenda today, the opposition proposes the following: setting up a wide-ranging low-energy pool to conduct a comprehensive potential study on energy efficiency improvement in the various sectors of society, the development of a comprehensive CO2 management plan, the establishment of a hydropower policy cluster notification of network policy, the creation of a nuclear map, the launch of an investigation into a scheme for a national green certificate market Furthermore, it is not ambitious to propose investigations into surveys and the reduction of samples. At best, the willingness of the opposition to take action in these cases can be significant bureaucratic employment without necessarily being given the measures afterwards. It is far more demanding to propose action-oriented policy solutions. I'm not in doubt that continuing the line that the government has today is what will give the best results. That's why I think it's necessary to maintain the focus that the government has, and that one does not interfere with the goal of a number of investigations and a number of samples.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e661	An overall committee fully agrees that we need an overall approach to the country's energy supply. Nevertheless, only the opposition agrees on the proposals. For the Right, there are five points that are important. We need to develop Norwegian production, we need to increase energy efficiency, and we agree with what is written in the setting, namely that a kilowatt-hour saving is the most environmentally friendly kilowatt-hour. We need new production and not least new renewable production, and we need completely different support schemes than what we have today. We need to have environmental impacts both in terms of production and new production, and we need to look at the distribution of electricity and other power. Therefore, there is a need for this very review, a potential study for energy efficiency improvement proposed by the Christian People's Party. The government has not been able to deliver the energy message that has been promised for three years. If the government had done its job, this proposal would not have been necessary. However, when the Government does not do its job, it is up to the opposition to present proposals and options for action. This is also the reason for Terje Aasland’s comment that a number of cases are now being proposed. The government does not take its job seriously and does not deliver to Stortinget what Stortinget wants and asks for, and what there is a strong need within a global energy market. This potential study should have been unnecessary, but the proposal is here, and the Government has not delivered. And it will increase the appetite for action if we follow up with potential studies and see what support schemes are needed to realise the opportunities that lie here. Because the possibilities are huge. We have great opportunities in households, construction, industry and transport. We identify a number of them, but yet we have hardly seen any action by the Government to do anything with them. Not only do we need this opportunity study, but we actually need a completely different ground to look at action plans, and it will not be until September next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e670	I think this is a good initiative by the proposers. We need to identify the potential for energy efficiency improvement in the various sectors, and we need to look at how we can reduce energy consumption in Norway and use energy in a more efficient way. The government already has plans for the first and evaluates how we can get to the last. Climate change and over-exploitation in our part of the world require strong energy efficiency in buildings and in the transport sector, to mention two important areas. It's e.g. on the transport side so that petrol cars have an energy efficiency of approximately: 18-20 pst., which is terribly low – most of what you put on the tank, goes out in the form of heat loss – while for example. the electric car has an energy efficiency of 90 p.p. and is completely unsurpassed in this way. That means it would be a good idea to bet on electric cars. I am pleased that the Norwegian electric car manufacturer Think is now doing very well, despite the financial crisis – or perhaps just because. It shows that the winners will be those who are ready for the future and who are preparing for another climate reality. I can also mention in this connection that General Motors in the United States is in a completely different situation, where they have invested in Hummer and petrol-lubricating cars of type SUV and are now on the brink of bankruptcy. It's not random. There is also some reason why our government has been entitled to the future and is committed to – it has also been done by previous governments, it is said in the name of justice – that zero-emission cars should receive a number of benefits to stimulate the competitiveness of the zero-emission option, and that it should be possible to get the cars at a price that is most viable for people. In the case of construction, the Norwegian building mass stands for a total of 40 pst. of the total energy consumption of Norway. As Bellona pointed out when they launched their new report on the topic last Monday, most people agree that a dramatic more efficient use of energy in construction is a key instrument in slowing down climate change. Bellona also pointed out a number of obstacles to reaching where most of us want to. Here we have a job to do. There are some tools in place, and some are on the stairs. But there is no doubt that we need to do more, and that we need to have an active approach to the matter. Among other things, the Government will review the building regulations more frequently in the future, and we should take good advantage of that. We also need tougher requirements for public buildings than for commercial buildings. And there will be far more opportunities for municipalities and counties to make demands in terms of energy form when the new Planning and Building Act enters into force. It is important that new buildings have good quality and low energy requirements. In 2007, the Government launched new energy requirements in the regulations of the Planning and Building Act. As far as I remember, there was a champagne party in the office of Nature and Youth, and that does not happen often – at least not to celebrate a new regulation. These energy requirements will save 400 million in one year.–450 million. kWh. This corresponds to the annual energy consumption of approx. 20 000 dwellings. The energy requirements of the Building Regulation shall be increased more frequently over the years with a passive house standard target in 2020. Passive house means house with low energy consumption. In addition, oil fires will be banned in new buildings from 1 July 2009. In addition, we need to put in place the energy labelling system, support the low-energy programme for construction and make a heating market work. One of the main problems in Norway is that we use a high-quality energy form as power to heat up our houses. It is wasted with valuable energy that could have been used to electrify the socket and the car park, for example. In addition, many Nordics put in a trap and, of course, create a lot of fear when power prices increase. The public sector must lead by example. It is a paradox, as the Committee points out, that the State, which has 25 pst. of all non-residential buildings in Norway, stands for 35 pst. of the energy consumption of commercial buildings. We have to turn this around. As the Committee points out, Norway is expected to have a very high potential for energy efficiency improvement, but to date there has not been a thorough identification of the potential in different sectors and objectives. Energetic efficiency improvement is defined as one of six areas of energy21, with its own interim report on energy use. We should notice what's being described there. I also expect the Council of State to have an active approach to this, and to ensure that we both carry out studies that look at the potential for energy efficiency improvement, and look at how we can use our energy in a more sensible way to bring down the total energy consumption in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e693	Many red-green politicians often and for a long time in the media talk about the importance of energy efficiency improvement as climate action. The willingness of the same parties to commit themselves to concrete action through political decisions in the Great Britain is not as obvious. The government's action in this matter demonstrates what has become a pattern for the red-greens in energy policy: there is much talk and promise, but little or nothing is being done. When I promoted this proposal, it was based on a concrete input from the energy industry and industry. They pointed out that it is difficult to achieve a targeted and comprehensive focus on energy efficiency improvement in Norway. The reason is that there is no overview of the amount of energy used for different purposes and that there is no data on the savings that can be realised in the short and long term. The same need was also highlighted in the final energy report21. The interim report on energy use also shows that there is a need to develop comprehensive analyses of where efforts to improve energy efficiency are most sensible. It is noted that there is a need for a methodology for such analysis, usually based on EU methods of potential assessment. The representative of Aasland asks whether the most important thing is to have action, or to ask for notifications and studies. Actions are important, but we need to know where to put them. Yesterday the Government received the Energy Council report from the Council of State. We can read in today’s Newspaper that we can make $250 billion on an additional measure. This report is important, but it is based only on estimates of the EU energy efficiency package and not on a study of Norwegian conditions. Energy efficiency improvement and the need for monitoring have also been further updated in recent weeks, through the IEA's new report, which claims that we need 54 pst. energy efficiency improvement if we're going to be able to achieve the 2-degree target. We could also read in yesterday's Newspaper that energy use has unfortunately increased in 2007 – in housing blocks, churches, hotels and commercial buildings. Today's comment from State Secretary Stubholt is that these figures are disappointing. If they're disappointing, we also have to do something about this disappointment. So there is no lack of evidence of the need for this proposal we are now considering. We need a comprehensive review of the different sectors to be able to identify different energy efficiency solutions. The whole opposition is gathering behind this proposal. We think we should put down a low-energy sample. Government parties like to talk more about energy efficiency than to do something about it, so they are proposing today that the matter be annexed to the protocol. However, in reply of 25 August this year to the Committee of the Minister for Oil and Energy, the following warning is given: ‘Energy efficiency improvement, highlighting the energy efficiency potential of different sectors, will be an important theme of this Communication’.» In retrospect, more specifically 21 October, the same minister announced that he had still not intended to submit an energy message. We can see another breach of promises and another setback in this important area. The government hits its chest with what they call a big bet on Enova. Black and white has been referred to as in this debate. Perhaps 2.4 TWh in 2007 is black and white compared to new production, and Enova has been able to facilitate savings. I believe this is not black-and-white. The current government is now showing clear signs that it has had the majority disease – it is paralysed and over-ripe for a replacement. I guess it's like a broken three-year-old who wants to decide everything on his own: like three-year-olds, you know everything best yourself.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e717	We human beings are designed to make it easier for us to have a high consumption of what we have good access to – and only save when good is scarce. That's the same thing about energy as well. We have the advantage in this country that we have had good access to energy – especially good. This is a great advantage that we have used over time for the benefit of the people. We're still going to do that. At the same time, we know that the climate challenges facing the world and which Norway has also committed itself to contributing to the delineation of the consequences require that we both reduce CO2 emissions, save energy and produce more renewable energy – for all this is related. With that as a backstop, we as consumers and nation should both try to reduce our power consumption and use the energy we produce, in the best possible way. In Norway, we use e.g. a large amount of electricity on heating. The available stream and a cold climate have made this a natural choice. According to the view of the Centre Party, there is a high potential to use bioenergy to a greater extent as a source of heating, thereby releasing power to use in areas where it provides greater efficiency. At the same time, one can make a lot of use of heating that today goes to what we at home in Nordfjord call firing the crows. We could use the energy contained in waste, residues, fertilisers, sewage and not least in wood of different kinds for heating. So there's a win-win situation. The electricity we release, we should use to replace energy based on fossil energy sources. Transport and private cars are an open sector to bet heavier on electrification. Industry and industry, such as the petroleum industry, are other examples of sectors. Correct energy in the right place is therefore a targeted and correct climate action. We are therefore pleased with the constructive and offensive attitude of the Government in this field, and with the signal to bet even more offensively in the time to come. We have a great potential for energy saving in buildings, a potential that we have to draw from the requirements we impose on energy use in buildings, and by increasing the competence of industry when it comes to energy-efficient solutions when one builds. Enova is an important tool for achieving results in this area. Increased research efforts are another tool, because in many cases efficient energy conversion and energy saving depend on good technological solutions that produce results. In this case, the opposition is impatient. It's a good skepticism, because it's not in contrast to what's the government's goal. When we in this room compete to find solutions that are in line with the government statement, it's a situation that we in the Center Party might like. But what is even more important is that we stand together on good solutions for the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e733	Energy efficiency has been too low a central theme in the energy debate. It's short and well done too little in this area. Here I think we should be honest enough to say that there must be more governments sharing responsibility for. However, it is gratifying that the opposition parties were able to obtain many elements of the climate agreement that will affect further work on energy efficiency improvement. Norway has been in a situation where we have had reasonable access to cheap energy, to an extent that has been necessary. The result has been too little focus on energy efficiency improvement. In this situation, I think it is of great importance to identify the potential and to have a plan to trigger the potential for energy efficiency improvement in the various sectors. However, in addition to such monitoring, active action is required. In many areas, a speeding up of this can already be achieved today in order to get the potential out. Keywords here are grant schemes. The use of fiscal policies could also be effective. Standards are needed, requirements are needed, labelling arrangements are needed, and offensive efforts are needed on the Low Energy Programme in an interaction between administrations and industries. The left believes that a low-energy selection is a good idea. It could help to put energy efficiency work on the agenda with greater weight and provide a good professional basis for exploiting this potential. As several have already mentioned in the debate, the mass of buildings is central in this area. Estimates of the potential to be taken vary. Some people believe that there are about 10 TWh with measures that are known and are already commercially available. I believe that in terms of energy efficiency and energy saving, it should be possible to exploit a potential that enables us to serve what is now generating growth in energy consumption in Norway. What characterizes this area is that there is energy to save, there is money to save for households, for businesses, for municipalities and for the state. And what's an advantage of this area is that the potential can be taken out much faster than in other areas. Energy efficiency can also provide the basis for industrial development in a wide range of disciplines. I believe that the plumbers, the electricians and those in the ventilation industry who acquire knowledge and enthusiasm in this area have a clear competitive advantage in further efforts to strengthen their business. I think this area is going to be very important for many households and businesses, and then it needs a business life and professionals who are able to serve the increased interest that comes in this area. I also believe that putting greater pressure on energy efficiency related to the building mass will be a suitable tool in these times of crisis, where it is said that one will put resources in the direction of the building mass. I hope the Government will do it in such a way that it is combined with setting energy and environmental requirements for the work to be done. The left promotes in its alternative state budget proposals for a fund called Climate Change, which should be an interaction between public authorities and private actors. It is intended to be a fund that will stimulate climate entrepreneurs and assist companies that are working in the very area that we are discussing today. In several areas, we have previously given clear orders, and it goes out to get the deliveries. This is the case, for example. in the case of two-way communication. I think informed and engaged consumers are a key if we are to succeed in this area. So I'm asking for clarification from the Council when she wants to put forward a two-way communication plan. The left proposed in the climate agreement – and got it there – that an energy check be made by the individual household, which could clarify the potential for energy saving in the individual household. As has been pointed out in the debate, the transport sector is also of great importance when it comes to improving energy efficiency. You have to focus on that, too. I think it is important that Norway join the EU 2020 target of 20 pst. energy saving. I would like to end by saying that I think it was embarrassing that the government’s sneezing in the EU directive on energy efficiency improvements in buildings led to Norway’s being brought before the EFTA Court. Here we should be a country of the past, not a sink.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e763	With a small reservation about the conclusion, I think the chairman of the committee made a good contribution. It was also concrete in some areas that it is particularly important to work on moving on with energy efficiency. When I start by saying that, it's because I've followed the debate with interest just looking for what's the opposition's concrete input in this area. I just have to admit, I'm disappointed there. I perceive that there is a desire to achieve something in terms of energy efficiency. It's a wish that I share completely, and something that works a lot. I'm like that also listens to good input that makes us move on in this area. I'm going to promise to make good recordings that actually contribute to something in this area, in my work and in the work that I do with Enova. There is no doubt that the climate challenges we are facing are highly real. Everyone in this room – and more than one – has an extremely great responsibility to manage to bring about changes that contribute to improvements, which in turn contribute to achieving the two-degree goal – and not the six-degree threat that lies there. But when I read the comments of the opposition parties in the setting and listen to the opposition here in Stortinget today, with the exception that I now referred to, I do not hear any of this. I hear only criticism of the Government, and I hear demands and wishes for investigations and new settings. With respect to reporting: Is it the case that the collapse opposition believes that the difference between a good and a bad energy policy, a good and a bad energy efficiency policy, are investigations? Is that where the difference lies in what is being discussed? We would like to spend time discussing whether it is the Government or others who are like broken three-year-olds, but with respect to reporting, it is also not a contribution to getting energy efficiency up and down. Good proposals that contribute to more energy efficiency are needed. We definitely don't need to spend time on whether some investigation is the difference between a good or poor energy efficiency policy. As many people know, it was a rather thought-provoking report presented by the IEA 14 days ago. The two most relevant conclusions in relation to this debate are, first of all, the question of the environment in which such a report is presented. It is not the most extreme part of the environmental movement in the world that presents a report that substantiates their claims, it is the energy environment – in itself an energy environment that has much of its base in fossil energy – that presents a description of possible scenarios ahead. The second is that so much of the cut in climate emissions that needs to come comes from energy efficiency improvement. When the IEA then refers to 50 pst., at least, in the field of energy efficiency, it shows that getting more in this area is absolutely necessary, but it also shows that there is hope. It also shows that, without going beyond standard of living or standard of living, we can do steps that actually contribute to achieving the two-degree goal, and that have a positive sign. As for what is done by the Government in this area, I find that if I say to the opposition in the Storting that Enova makes x and Enova makes y, it creates a limited commitment. But I'm going to keep doing that, because both this government and the previous government have definitely helped define Enova as an important instrument in environmental policy and not least now in climate policy. By doing so, we have also said that responsibility and implementation are not in the daily work of the Ministry of Oil and Energy or of the Ministry of Environment, it is actually in Enova. And Enova now has a situation where one third of the funds are used for energy efficiency measures. A half of what is achieved by results is achieved through energy efficiency measures. With all possible insights into spending more money on Enova – we are going to get more in the future in terms of energy efficiency improvement, the area needs to be raised – we must not want to go into a debate that is that it is Enova that actually implements the practicality of energy efficiency policy, means that it does nothing. There is a lot of work on a daily basis on the part of Enova to be out in companies, to be in municipalities and also to advise private households on what are good energy efficiency measures – and that is what is needed!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e783	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e786	State council posts show the problem of changing state councils every year, for every year we start with a state council without political memory in the field of science. In this room, opposition parties have individually or collectively proposed to do something about the depreciation rules for technical installations in order to achieve energy efficiency improvement. We have proposed to do something about the support system, so it becomes more technology neutral. We have proposed an extension, for example. in the case of pure-burning wood stoves, both to get away from particulate matter and to get a greater width here. There have been many concrete proposals in this Chamber that have all been voted down by the Government. This is precisely why the opposition is trying a slightly different approach, where one says that the Government will be allowed to decide a little bit more about the content, but at least brought something that the Storting can decide! That's what we're trying to do here. That is why I am interested in knowing whether the Council of State looks at the comments of the Red-Greens, asking the Government to consider carrying out an investigation, which he is going to do, or whether he thinks it is completely unnecessary – as his post indicates.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e793	As I have also said in communication with the Committee, it is to look at how we best achieve the goal of energy efficiency improvement, which I want to do and what we do. Then, early in the fall, as the representative of Solvik-Olsen commented earlier, it was quite rightly said that I saw that it could be an opportunity to take it through an energy message. When I have chosen not to do so, it means that the work continues, but with a different frame around it. This means that entering into and looking at the potential, working concretely with some areas in terms of what we can achieve in terms of energy efficiency improvement, is very important. There is certainly one of the areas in which more should be done in the future than has been done so far. Last afternoon, I had invited and gathered Energie-Norge to a joint debate on this topic. We discussed energy efficiency improvement for three hours, in addition to some issues related to internationalisation, just to move on in this area. So the answer is yes -- it's working on it, and we're going to keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e802	It is a disappointed Council of State that is present in this Chamber today, and he must, of course, be disappointed in his own efforts or the way in which others debate this matter. But we in the opposition are trying to take the industry seriously. When they clearly tell us that you do not know where the most profitable way to drive energy efficiency is, because you do not know where the energy is used or how much is used in each location, we ask for a full potential study, as the EU has done. Yes, as an EU opponent, I would say that they are still doing something wise in the EU in this area. The Council of State refers to the main measures taken by the Government, Enova. However, he does not mention a single concrete measure by Enova in terms of energy efficiency improvement either. But they had an idea virtue yesterday for three hours. I would like to ask for five examples from this idea of new energy efficiency measures that the Council of State will present to the Storting when the table is cleared.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e809	I might be sorry for my voice today, it's possible it's going to be a certain challenge compared to the number of posts. Of course, the representative of Holten Heimdal will be presented in an appropriate manner, when we have measures to follow up what was done either yesterday or in other contexts. I believe that pointing out that Enova delivers concrete TWh in terms of energy efficiency improvement is an answer. I find it completely incomprehensible that not the representative Holten Hämdal and others believe that it is an answer that it is working with energy efficiency improvement. We can also discuss individual measures here in Stortinget in terms of what works best, but that Enova can come back and say that they have spent a third of their funds on energy efficiency improvement, they have a half of their target in terms of energy efficiency improvement, must be proof that there is not a great darkness out there in terms of working in the field of energy efficiency. So I say [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e825	The Council of State is quite offensive and chooses as an invading sport to chatter with the opposition and asks whether the large difference is the number of investigations. I think it's a rather strange idea that the Council of State, which is number three in a row, has not brought along the whole series of concrete proposals promoted by the opposition, and that he has also not received all the concrete proposals that his two predecessors have made and come with in the field by area. So while the vision is up there, the implementation capability is a lot of steps down. I'm sorry about that. But the worst thing is probably not to listen to the industry's desire, which is based on implementing a policy on the extraction of new renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e832	Whoever listens and does not listen, we can certainly discuss without agreeing. I am trying to convey a message related to what is actually happening in energy efficiency improvement in Norway per year. today. It is possible that it is uninteresting for the representative of Kristiansen and others to refer to Enova. I mean, it's not. Once we have chosen to use Enova as an instrument to achieve energy efficiency, we must also be able to use the results of Enova as examples and evidence of what is happening and not happening. I believe that the results of Enova are not bad in relation to the framework they have been given to work on this. Then we can discuss whether to add more resources. This government has chosen to add more resources to the energy efficiency field than the government of which Ivar Kristiansen's party was part. That means we're betting more in this area now. In addition, we have said that more funding will be provided within the Energy Fund for next year, and that means that Enova's framework will increase accordingly in the future. It means more money to Enova to drive its energy efficiency improvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e839	Initially, I just want to ask for confirmation of what was the Council's response to Ketil Solvik-Olsen, that there will be a study of the potential in the various sectors to identify how much energy use can be made more efficient. If the answer to that question is yes, it is positive because it means that the intention of the proposers is accepted. There will be a tool for further work, as well as many other measures. I would like to ask the Council of State to confirm that, when the Government is planning a crisis package, designing measures related to the building mass, one will be concerned with getting a device that will also enable one to do some of the environmental and climate work to be done. So there's question number three: does the Left Council think that the idea of a climate fund to channel investment aid to businesses and climate entrepreneurs is a good idea that one will consider in the ongoing work on crisis response?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e848	The answer is yes to the first question raised by Mr Kvassheim regarding the consideration of energy efficiency potential in different sectors. We're doing that, and we're going to do more work on it. So to the second question. When it comes to looking at the energy efficiency potential within the building mass in relation to what is now coming from new measures towards the financial crisis, I want to look at the possibilities for it. So the answer is yes to the question of whether there are links here that have an employment effect in relation to the needs we have for it beyond spring and summer, and that at the same time brings climate and energy benefits. When it comes to looking at different fund structures that can contribute to business and climate, as I said in my speech, I am positive with the Stortinget proposals, new ideas, which can help to move forward in the field of energy efficiency improvement. I'd like to think of it as one of the possible measures to get further.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e857	It is nice that the Council of State says he is in favour of proposals from the opposition. The fact is that every time the opposition makes proposals in this Chamber, they are downgraded. Then that invitation is really very little worth. It is also quite serious that the Council of State, when he talks about this being one of the most important works he has, refers to the IEA and that this is one of the biggest challenges the world has. But it is not important enough for him, on his own initiative, to come to the Storting and present a case so that we could have a political discussion of this in the Chamber. So there's something the government is going to do on its own without involving the Storting in particular. When we take it up, it's because the industry, which is meeting the government correctly, is going back without any decision to deal with, without any framework conditions, so they know what they can do. Therefore, it is important to know whether the Council of State will ensure that a package of measures is provided for the Storting that we can deal with in this Chamber, or whether he only plans to take decisions internally without being obliged to deliver.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e865	To take question two first. With regard to the package of measures, and then I assume the representative is thinking about what the government is now working together with and what the representative Kvassheim was just about to do, there is one thing that the Storting will be presented and thus also have the opportunity to discuss. Regarding his comment that we have a business with no framework conditions or no knowledge of the framework conditions, I disagree. I believe that the work that Enova does on being out in companies and working concretely with energy efficiency measures is the framework for this work now, and it is a well-known framework, a known size. In any case, I get a lot of good feedback from concrete companies who believe they have made money on this, and who believe that the climate and environmental issue has been a great service with the work that has been in cooperation between industry and Enova.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e872	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e877	Even more often when we discuss things in this room within the scope of the Energy and Environment Committee, I find it very difficult to understand what the government parties really mean. It may be my abilities it lacks, but it may also be that it is approaching choices, and that you do not agree as much as you like to give the impression. I want to say that I think the representative Thorkildsen made a good contribution. She says, among other things: that she is satisfied with the opposition's initiative, as far as the Council of State is concerned when he says that it is working on the things that the opposition is asking for today. One more thing about the comments of the representative Thorkildsen, and it's about electric cars. I also want to include rechargeable hybrid cars, which may have the potential to become a family's only car. Many families in Norway cannot afford to have more than one car, and then it is important that it is both environmentally friendly and can go far, which an electric car cannot yet do. The Landsforening of Energy Companies says that because you have a large potential for higher efficiency on these cars, 6 TWh new energy is needed. Then it's exciting to hear how the representative Thorkildsen behaves when we're going to discuss hydropower later today, which is the cheapest and best way to supply these electric cars and rechargeable hybrid cars. Then we come to the paradox, because both the Council of State and the representative of Thorkildsen say that this is a good initiative, and that they are working on it, while the representative of Aasland describes this as a bureaucracy, and as unnecessary and wasted work. It must well be because the representative of Aasland does not want to have a debate on this in Stortinget. The last time I checked Norway's laws, Stortinget was the top political body in this country. I hope the government hasn't thought to change that. It almost seems that the representative of Aasland is offended that the opposition is taking this initiative. Obviously, you have to ask yourself why the opposition is doing it. As I said, in view of the fact that we in this house are still the top political body in the country, all that the government has supplied to the Biggest about energy is a four-sided paleness. In three years it's not very much, you could say. And then you say it's in the budget you put the important framework conditions. If we are to take this into account, it is such that the framework conditions for wind power production have been changed every year that the Government has provided a budget. As far as energy efficiency is concerned, in addition to what comes from Enova, they have been changed for the first time this year, which is good – but too late and not good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e890	First of all, I want to say that if there is more energy efficiency in this house, perhaps the representatives will have to use stilts and mittens, because there is quite a low temperature here today. But to Lien's posts, I want to underline a few things. We are not against the potential study being mapped. We even write that in our majority comment. It would have been desirable to have better results from Enova than what we've had up to now, but it's a fact that the government has now given Enova completely different resources than what has been the case in the past. It also means that the measures in the wake of Enova — different programmes targeted at areas specifically mentioned in the proposal — are most likely to produce better results. Our challenge is something that we cannot automatically solve in this room, because much of the energy efficiency improvement assessments are linked to the economic opportunities and assessments. In many cases, it is still much cheaper not to take energy efficiency measures. The government has very clearly drawn up lines in terms of building requirements in terms of energy efficiency and use. And we could of course maybe go even further. But where does the initial pain limit go? And where is reason? That's where it is – to trigger that potential. I think it's a combination of market and governance that will solve the challenges. So I regret that I was perhaps a little surprised that the Progress Party this day – through its proposals for the six matters we are going to deal with – was perhaps going to cope with the greatest bureaucracy of the time against the Oil and Energy Department and in the derivation of it. It is only to acknowledge that the situation may have changed slightly in the case of the Progress Party and their attitude towards bureaucratic solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e899	I don't think anyone in this room disagrees that the most environmentally friendly terawat hour is the one we don't use. But it is a great responsibility for all of us to use energy in a sensible way, both as individuals, on the part of industry, as big communities and as politicians. And that's where this matter we're now discussing, comes in. It must never be that knowledge is dangerous. Knowledge is important to make the right decisions, to take the right measures and to achieve the goal that we all have of not having a temperature increase of over 2 degrees. From 1990 to 2007, we have seen an increase in electricity use of 28.1 TWh in Norway. In Sweden, there has been an increase of 16 TWh and in Denmark 5.3 TWh. Enova is an important tool, but the question is whether we can settle down on that development when we see what our neighboring country has done, versus what we've done so far. We know that the situation is different. We have water resources in a completely different way from what they have in Denmark. They've used the wind a lot earlier. We're going to use it. But the question that needs to be asked from this speaker today is whether today's energy minister thinks that the increase he sees here in the use of electricity is an increase that he is satisfied with in view of the climate challenges we face.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e908	I think it is good that we are discussing energy efficiency improvement in the Chamber here, because we cannot just discuss new production when it comes to how we are going to live up to climate change. I just want to make a comment to the representative Tord Lien. I thank you first for the nice words. I appreciated them. I also agree very much on plug-in hybrids, the cars that are now coming too fully from 2010, which are going to represent an alternative for ordinary families in Norway who need cars of a certain size and cannot have e.g. a little buddy. What we have to do with is the infrastructure related to transport, the ability to charge the batteries. There is a lot of excitement going on around the cities and also in some districts, among others. Lærdal has taken the aim of becoming a district municipality that is set on the infrastructure of an electric car, and I think that is an example for follow-up. It is also true that we have initiatives internationally, such as: Better Place, which is very exciting, which establishes itself, among other things. in Israel and parts of Denmark. They are in dialogue with the Norwegian authorities to look at the possibility of also having battery replacement stations. Here there is going to be a revolution, and there is also some reason why SV sees it as possible to propose that we work internationally for a ban on the sale of petrol cars from 2015. We think that is completely realistic. In terms of hydropower, I believe that the most important thing in that area is upgrading and expanding existing hydropower expansions and facilitating mini-, micro- and small-power expansion, but where you have plans, so that you can see this in a complete way. It is also extremely important, as I was in my post, to convert electricity from heating to electrification, among other things. by the transport sector and by the socket. There we have a considerable job to do. One of the things the government has done in that area is to grant 100 million. kr more to Enova this year in the revised budget, where we among other things. get NOK 10000 to also install solar collectors, in addition to pellet ovens and heat pumps. It's also important that we put energy plans in place in the municipalities. We're also actively working on that. But there we have a challenge, including: as regards the competence of municipalities, because many municipalities do not have environmental advisers. We should work on that in the future. Maybe we could get a local environmental promise. Municipalities can save considerable sums if they implement energy efficiency and economics programmes, but they need knowledge. Enova can be used, but I think we also need to strengthen the local competence of the municipal administration. Very briefly, a small comment on the Progress Party: at least in one area they are trying to do something about the so-called bureaucracy, and that concerns supervision. They tickle, among others. Petroleum control with a million dollars. I think that's a bad example for follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e923	This became a fresher debate than you could imagine. I want to bring in a new theme. The truly high and, to the extent that the very cost-effective potential for energy efficiency in Norway is enough in industry, which is a major consumer in power in Norway, and which, as the representative Sande was in it, is somewhat ‘fours for crows’ today with its excess heat. But many of these projects are very expensive, and they depend on industry in general having long-term and good enough framework conditions to dry up these investment decisions. I guess you can't say that the industry has realized that they've been under today's government. One may not be able to blame the Government for the entire failing international market situation – one could, of course, be tempted to try it, but it would not be very credible – but high and growing energy prices are a problem for which the Government is responsible. Two of the government parties, not exactly the party represented by the government council, but the other two government parties, are responsible for the large degree of uncertainty about what climate quota regime we want after 2013. The other two government parties say that a much stricter climate quota regime for Norwegian industry should be set up than the EU provides for for its enterprises. In such a setting, there is considerable uncertainty for the entire future of the Norwegian industry, and there will not be one krone invested in energy efficiency projects until it has been established where the Government and the majority in this room are in relation to the climate quota law. Another thing to do in order to realise a greater degree of energy efficiency potential in Norwegian industry is to look at the current system, how, for example. Petter Stordalen, other hotel owners and to the extent that Olav Thon, who owns a number of shopping centres, receives much higher support per year. saved kWh than the industry. It is a challenge that the Council of State can take on board. I would like to say to the representative of Aasland that I still do not understand how it can contribute to a great red tape actually to present the work that the Government obviously does anyway, to the Storting. I can't see that means a great deal of red tape. I might rather call it politicization, but it might be dangerous. In conclusion, I must say that I am very pleased that the representative Inga Marte Thorkildsen is now turning to the question of small power and saying that it is right to extend small power plants in Norway too, despite the fact that it is not mentioned in the Soria Moria Declaration.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e938	First of all, as far as the small-scale bureaucracy debate is concerned, I can inform you that in these days as a result of increased funding for the NVE and in this way several concessional matters and applications that are hopefully being dealt with, and perhaps several appeals, we are assessing whether we must now also use the library for the office up at our disposal. So we're at least about to take advantage of the office premises. So we're going to think it'll last for a while. Knowledge is not dangerous, said the representative Holten Heimdal. I agree. That's exactly why I think it's so important that we stick to a principle in relation to this area, too, where we set the framework for what kind of goals we set for, among other things. Energy efficiency improvement, and so we accept that professionals are sitting and assessing how the Great Britain's granted framework best produces saved TWh, new renewable TWh, etc. through a system just staffed by professionals. Then the representative Holten Hemdal also took up the assessments of the 28 TWh that the representative pointed out was the increase in electricity consumption from 1990 to 2007. That's a big number, I totally agree with that. In relation to going into the numbers and evaluating what's in them, I think one has to look at some single elements here. There are individual elements like Worm Lange, Hustad Marble and Hydro Aluminium, which must be said to have been desired projects from this room. It's not that many months since we were in this room and not least representatives from Holten Hemdal's party were very concerned about how much energy was going to be spent on another big business a little further down in the West. So the fact that energy consumption has increased in this period, I'm not going to minimize, but it's at least an addressing in relation to the fact that there's also been political decisions, and there's been a desire for industrial establishment that obviously needs a lot of energy. As far as the journey is concerned, I believe that we need to use less electricity for heating, and I believe we need to add more water pipes to move heat. In this way, it is good that in recent years, 8 billion kroner have been spent on getting water pipes for heat delivery in place. We're going to do more on that in the future. We use a smaller part of the electricity for heating, and more for transport. The electric car has also been mentioned here today, and I think it makes sense to use electricity for transport. We're also going to electrify relative to offshore, on the base. We also need to release electricity there. There are no alternatives to it, like that. do in the case of heating. And then I have to say at the end: when the representative Lien is concerned with the foreseeable framework conditions for business to drive energy efficiency, and then mention low energy prices as one of those measures, it says a little bit about that when it comes to the problem, this is a slightly more demanding area than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e951	The representative No Marte Thorkildsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e954	In order to stop where the State Council was failing, the electricity charge, the fuel oil charge and the charging policy in the case of cars in general could be brought forward, with a very poor performance in terms of energy efficiency. On the contrary, the result will be increased fossil energy consumption and lower climate accounts. But it probably doesn't care about the party. So to the issue of hydropower expansion, and small power expansion in particular: it has never been such that SV is against small power expansion. The point is that we want to get it into plans where you see the whole thing, so that we don't build out a little bit here and a little bit there, and don't see the result until it's too late and you've built out too much of Norwegian nature. It's been our position all the way – and it still is.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e961	Unfortunately, political debate is often marked by a bit of a leak without justification. The progress party has a very good car policy, which would make sure that those who need large family cars would be able to afford to buy them, while stimulating a hybridization of the car park that would reduce emissions. In addition, we want a transport policy where one also removes the queues from the roads, so that one removes the emissions that are there. In the case of small power plants, I record that the representative Thorkildsen says that SV has not been against it. Then she should talk to the previous energy policy spokesman in SV, who cheered when the Soria Moria declaration was presented, because there they took the small power plants out of the Green Certificate scheme on the grounds that now there were enough small power plants in Norway. I'm very happy that SV is moving, and I get hope they're moving even further towards a realistic policy. So to the representative of Aasland, that it's bureaucracy to present to the Storting through a big message the work that the Government is doing, I think it's very funny. But then, an efficiency improvement on the part of the Government may be to refrain from presenting the government budget every year, too, if that's how you think about it. It's going to be a completely meaningless approach. This is about depriving politicians at the Stortinget influence over the job that the Government is doing. It is possible that it is Aasland's desired policy. I don't think it's a positive direction. Then I would like to sum up a little bit: despite the hustle and bustle of the proposal and the claim of red tape, one should be able to interpret the government's signals to the point that the potential study will be conducted because one is already doing the job, says the government, and then one must be able to present it to the Stortinget. That's how I think everyone in the hall can see it. The council gets to correct me if someone's wrong. So the input from the opposition may be that one in the potential study looks at the possibility of using the tax regime to make it economically viable to implement measures, such as: by writing off measures on the tax returns or by further improving the depreciation rates. Another approach could be to treat energy efficiency measures in the same way as power development measures. Now one sees that Elkem Aluminium is developing a technology around carbotermic aluminium production that can cut energy use by up to 30 pst. Globally, it could mean an energy saving of 150 TWh or more. But they get very little support from the public. Had Elkem, on the other hand, established a wind power company that was supposed to expand as much power in Norway as they could save in Norway, they could probably have received billions of aid. But they're being fed off with tens of millions to develop something that's energy-saving. Making a non-discrimination here could be a very important tool that actually makes it possible to realize what everyone here is talking about so pleasantly. Because here the instruments don't stand in the way. That's exactly why the opposition has said over and over again that they want to get an overall approach, so that we can see the instruments in context, and not just look at them once and for all. But I look forward to the study being presented to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e975	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 913]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e991	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It is seen as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1000	In Norway, we are lucky people who have not had to choose nuclear power to provide enough electricity, and we have also been foresaw, which many decades ago and for good reason did not choose to use nuclear power. There was good reason at the time to ask serious questions about how safe the operation of nuclear reactors was, some practice has shown that there was very good reason to worry about. Possible nuclear reactor accidents were and are a horror scenario. Another fundamental issue was raised, namely the management of nuclear waste from spent nuclear fuel. The waste is extremely dangerous and must be kept separate from humans and the environment for more than 100,000 years! It is remarkable and serious that after approx. 60 years of nuclear power generation have not yet generated a safe long-term waste storage system in the world. It is so far in so-called intermediate storage, partially stored in a water basin, partially processed and encapsulated in glass such as glass. in Belgium, or in concrete and air-cooled steel containers such as in France, etc. Common for all countries is that no one is yet able to long-term stockpile this waste, even if one in e.g. Sweden and Finland, after a very long period of research and testing, appears to be able to start long-term storage between 500 and 700 metres underground in mountain soils by 2020, while other countries with huge amounts of waste, such as the United Kingdom and the United States, have not reached this point in time. It is agreed that the safest way to store the waste is to store it in mountain soils after intermediate storage in water basins. Why do I mention this? Well, because this shows how very complicated and enormously expensive it is to handle nuclear waste. The demolition of a used reactor is very expensive, as the demolition material must be treated as high-radioactive waste and kept for tens of thousands of years. The reactors of the future are probably safer in operation than those of the past. The accidents have come. The Three Mile Island accident in 1979 in the United States stopped all new expansions in the United States until today. The Chernobyl accident led to almost a total stoppage of development in Europe. Many other less dramatic accidents and near-accidents are known. My point is that if accidents should occur, the consequences can be dramatic and above all long-term. Nuclear pollution from Chernobyl, of course, had enormous human and natural consequences in the neighbourhoods, but still today in Norway, we still have a large transfer of radioactivity from soil to plants and animals, such as the United Kingdom. as a result, even in 2008, we need to have a culling and early slaughter in order to reduce radioactive cesium in e.g.: sheep. Nuclear power trailers are now on the road in an effort to achieve free targets based on climate change and increasing energy needs. The proposal we are considering today to ask the Government to present a big message on Norwegian nuclear policy focusing on thorium has not been given a majority in the Committee simply because the majority will not intervene on this track – in energy terms, a short-term wrong track. Energy and climate challenges are best addressed by investing in renewable energy sources. The thorium trail is an uncertain path. After a long period of research, e.g. In India and other countries, well back in the 1950s and 1960s, one has not yet developed a single commercial reactor. The development of a thorium-based reactor argues with far less waste and the need for much shorter waste storage times. It is probably correct, but even the Thorium Committee says in its report that in the case of the waste, ‘the same safety measure is adopted as for plutonium which is mandatory until proven otherwise’. I am pleased that the Minister of Oil and Energy in his reply to the Stortinget about such a message, among other things. says: ‘This means that it is not appropriate to facilitate the construction of nuclear power plants in Norway.’ Similarly, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade said in the Question Time on 15 October this year: ‘I would like to stress that the Government’s energy policy is firm, which means that there are no plans to allow the construction of nuclear power plants in Norway.’ This is a clear and important speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1032	I record that the government parties are trying to turn today's debate into a question of saying yes or no to building nuclear power plants in Norway. It's tracking the debate already in the beginning. Today’s debate is based on the fact that the Council of State, Enoxen — a visionary Council of State in this area — agreed to set up a thorium selection to look at what this consisted of. The report of the sample was submitted in February of this year. The selection was clear that one should look further at the potential of thorium. It can be a significant source of energy, which is important for the world's energy supply. One should look further at the resources in Norway. They can be significant, but we have to look at what exists and how easily extractable they are. One should develop Norwegian competence, develop the environments that are e.g. at the Institute of Energy Engineering, at SINTEF, at universities, and report to us on the work carried out internationally through Euroatom. It also calls for the environment. So when one from the political side, the government, says that no is well covered here, the professionals in Norway disagree. The Hearing Officers had a deadline for May. There were a number of hearings, 45 in total. I record that the Council of State in its letter to Stortinget writes that they can be divided into two groups – someone was for, and someone was against – without specifying it. When you ask to specify this, you can see that 45 have made recordings. 12 of them are without comments, but 24 are positive to the report of the Thorium Committee, and only seven are negative. Over 75 pst. It is therefore considered that the report of the sample should be continued, inter alia. Energy companies' national association – EBL, Ministry of Defence, Institute of Energy Technology – IFE, Norway's geological survey, University of Technology and Natural Sciences – NTNU, Main Organisation of Industry – NHO, Statkraft, Norwegian Council of Physics, University of Bergen, University of Oslo, University of Ås, to name a few. They're not saying we're going to build here, but this is so important that this should develop a competence in Norway to see what the potential is here. Just because the sample report is so clear, and the hearing opinions were so clear, it would be natural for such a case to end up in the Storting as a big message. I think it's almost contempt for the actors in the process that this is just put in a drawer, and that later on you're like this doesn't come up with anything new, or something interesting, when what they say is actually very interesting. So the vote refers to the proposal as a question of yes or no, but from the Progress Party it was intended as an attempt to update our competence, check the resource base and achieve international cooperation. The need is definitely present. All of our neighbouring countries, except Denmark, have nuclear power, and gradually more and more will build new nuclear power. Then it is in Norway’s own interest to understand as much as possible of what is happening. Where's the technology picture? How can Norway help to ensure that the nuclear power plants that are built in any case are as safe as possible? And can we also help to expand the energy resources that the world has by making thorium become a current source, it's also important. Interestingly, when the Council of State is asked whether Norway has any objections to what is happening in Finland, it answers no. There is no concern, therefore, that nuclear power plants are being built in Finland, neither in waste management nor in the safety of operations. But to discuss something like that in Norway, or to discuss whether to build skills, he won't. So where is the relationship? If Norway considers this to be safe because there is a border away, it should also be interesting to discuss it in Norway, at least in relation to building an environment that can contribute to development. In this context, it is important to point out that the World Energy Outlook 2008 report of the International Energy Agency (IEA) states that achieving the 450 ppm target in relation to the CO2 content of the atmosphere is one of the four areas of activity that need to be put in place. Oil and gas consumption will increase in relation to today. Coal consumption will be significantly reduced, but 20 new nuclear power plants will have to be built in the next decades, and renewable energy, CO2 management and energy efficiency will also have to be improved. Then it's worth noting that when everyone now celebrates Obama as the new hero in the United States on the climate front, he also says that part of his package is safe nuclear power. Norway should not put its head in the sand and should not discuss the issue. We should have a political debate on how Norway can approach this and help ensure that whatever happens is done as best as possible for Norway. I will take up the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1061	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1064	Let me begin by commending the Thorium Committee for the work they did when they pointed to opportunities and challenges by using thorium for energy purposes. Fusion technology and thorium have opportunities to provide us with new energy – in the long run – in the long run. What the Thorium Committee clearly states is that we need far more research on nuclear energy, on fusion reactors or on thorium. We in Norway are lucky to have reserves of hydropower that we have. Similarly, we now see that Norwegian consumption in a normal year exceeds Norwegian production. We have so far taken a strong distance from the construction of commercial nuclear reactors in Norway, precisely because of the two main challenges of melting — and within it also other accidents and leakages — and not least the problem of waste. Nevertheless, we see that within what the Thorium Committee has now gone through, there are opportunities we should look at further, without concluding with anything other than what the Thorium Committee is doing, namely that Norway needs more knowledge. That is why the Right has promoted a proposal in which, like the Progress Party, we are asking for a big message on nuclear policy, which at the same time looks at the possibility of Norwegian membership of Euratom. In addition to the proposals of the Progress Party, the Right proposes to base today's current policy of rejecting the commercial use of conventional nuclear technology. In other words, what we are asking for is a clean update in relation to the possibilities of thorium and fusion technology. I am thus promoting the proposal on which the Right stands alone in the vote, but I would also like to link two final comments to thorium in general. It's a fact that nuclear power is part of, and will also be a very important part of, the world's energy supply in the future. What thorium so far seems to be able to contribute is that it cannot be used in weapons technology, either for nuclear weapons. It's just positive. Let me also make a final comment about our two research reactors, Kjeller and Halden, respectively. Both reactors are very old. I'm assuming that the Right, and I guess more, want an update on the situation of both reactors -- whether you're going to go in for an update of the equipment and a general renewal, or whether you're actually going to put down the reactors. I look forward to a comment from the Council of State to that very thing, either in today's debate or in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1081	The representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1084	It is a party on the Stortinget that is dedicated to thorium, and it is the Advance Party. In addition, the Right has a nuanced positive attitude, I would say. Nevertheless, fortunately, it is a dwindling majority in order not to go further with initiatives in this area. Instead, as a majority, we will focus on environmentally friendly energy sources that do not present safety, health and environmental challenges. The thing is that thorium-based nuclear power will have the same environmental impact as today's nuclear power plant. It appears in a new report from the State Radiation Protection Agency of October this year. The report confirms that thorium-based nuclear power has the same negative environmental impacts as nuclear power based on uranium. The use of thorium leads to highly radioactive waste, and the risk of accidents will always be present. At a thorium-based nuclear power plant, according to the State's radiation protection system, uncontrolled chain reactions may occur and, in the worst case, a meltdown. The straw supplier also states that thorium-based nuclear power plants will produce long-term radioactive waste, which will require the same treatment as the high-radioactive waste from today's reactors. The report also points to the impossibility of providing a full overview of all potential environmental impacts of thorium-based nuclear power in Norway. In other words, it is entirely possible that other negative environmental impacts will arise if the thorium trail is explored in Norway. In other words, this gives good arguments to us who do not want to spend resources on this, but who instead want an environmentally friendly development in Norway. One main argument for Norway to explore thorium as a source of energy was the assumed large presence of thorium. In Norway, the Fensfield in Telemark has the highest incidences. However, earlier this year it became clear that it would be very difficult to extract this thorium. The reason for this shall be that the rocks in which the thorium is bound are so fine-grained, with grain sizes all the way down to micro-level. According to State radiation protection, therefore, the environmental impact of a Norwegian extraction will be completely different from that of other countries. According to Norway’s geological survey, Norwegian extraction will be based on a number of acid-based processes that will generate liquid radioactive waste. The report shows that any thorium extraction, whether opencast or mining, will lead to negative environmental impacts. Extraction will produce radioactive waste in the form of slags that can lead to increased radiation in humans and the environment and to the spread of radioactivity. The processing of rock from the extraction will produce radioactive dust that poses health and environmental challenges in the areas where this is taking place. There will also be a risk of accidents in mining operations. Accidents such as explosion and fire can lead to the spread of radioactivity. As we know, we can never guard against accidents. Previously, it has been claimed that thorium technology cannot be used for weapons purposes. It was also now claimed by the representative Gitmark. Suffering if it becomes more difficult than today's technology, the report from the State Radiation Protection shows that it will still be possible – contrary to what was claimed by the representative before me here. Already in the 1950s, the United States carried out its first test explosion using uranium-233, which, according to Bellona, is the substance produced by a thorium-based nuclear power plant. In addition, high-enriched uranium or plutonium are needed to contribute to the thorium in order to initiate a chain reaction. These are radioactive materials that can be misused for weapons purposes. According to the State Radiation Protection Agency, there is uncertainty about several aspects of the thorium fuel cycle due to a lack of operational experience in all parts of the technology, because commercial thorium-based nuclear power has never been established. There are still a number of development tasks within all stages of the fuel cycle that need to be implemented before it can be established. Together, I believe that this just shows that betting on the thorium trail will require enormous resources from Norway, a country that does not rely on nuclear power at all. I cannot understand with my best will why we should bet on this when we have so many other unresolved problems. In addition, all the environmental arguments, the safety policy arguments and the health arguments, which I have now gone through. I can mention that a proposal made by the Nordic Progress Party on a common Nordic commitment to research and development of thorium power was discussed in the relevant Committee of the Nordic Council on 24 September 2008. Then the proposal only received the vote of the Progress Party. For us in SV, it will in any case be completely out of date to bet on thorium. Rather, we want to fully focus on new renewable energy production, energy efficiency and energy savings, plus CO2 management.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1104	The centre part is not supported by a nuclear staging message. First, nuclear power generation brings with it significant environmental challenges, all the time when the waste issue is not solved – there is no sign of a solution with the first, nor of the use of thorium. The second reason is the safety risk both in this type of production and in the management of waste. In short, we in the Center Party believe that this is the wrong way to go. This is not a bet range, and it should not be a bet range for Norway. Both the case spokesperson and the representative of Thorkildsen have told us in a thorough manner about the consequences of such a production. I see no need to re-examine what has been said before. But I want to add a moment in the end, the need for priority in energy policy. Because it is that the Progress Party does not give priority to energy policy. They are constantly making new proposals on messages and distributions in all areas of energy production. It's no art to be a politician if the doctrine at any time is: More to everyone, always. We in the Central Party believe that politics is about priority. We believe that Norway should give priority to energy policy, it is renewable energy production that should be our niche. It is the right way to go for a country that has not only set itself the goal of supplying clean energy to own countries, but also in the long run contribute to climate work through the export of clean energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1113	We in the Left think it is very important that a broad majority of all the parties on the Stortinget outside the Progress Party in the election say a clear no to commercial nuclear power stations in Norway. It is also important for the majority to justify its resistance to both the safety risk, the environmental aspects and the problem of nuclear waste storage. An overall environmental movement is also taking a great deal of distance from nuclear power plants in Norway. This includes nuclear power stations based on thorium as a fuel, because this is not particularly different from conventional nuclear power. Left took the initiative for a meeting of environmental organisations in Norway, which ended with a joint opinion in which they strongly opposed nuclear power plants in Norway. No Marte Thorkildsen has in a good way referred to what was the reason for the joint opinion of these environmental organisations, and I am fully committed to it. I would also like to commend the rapporteur, Asmund Kristoffersen, on his good report on the position of the majority committee. There is a good connection in the long-term work of the representative Kristoffersen within this field. It goes both on the Norwegian policy and on our commitment to Sellafield, which is part of a comprehensive policy to which the Left subscribes. This approach clarifies that long-term policies in this area remain firm. We're satisfied with that, because there have been some people who have tried to take advantage of the opportunity to doubt whether this basic attitude was still in place. One has pointed out that there was a thorium selection, one has pointed out that StatoilHydro had an involvement, and that Statoil had an involvement in the company that worked with nuclear power. It has created an uncertainty that is now cleared by the way of a solid majority. I agree with Mr Sande that the important thing about climate and energy policy is what kind of role Norway can play that means something beyond the borders of the country, and in what areas we have special prerequisites for doing a job that becomes important. It's definitely not within nuclear power. It is within two main areas: it is within CO2 management and landfill, and it is within marine energy production. There we can do something that it shines off, and that matters far beyond the borders of the country. We can build up what can form the basis of an industrial adventure related to clean energy production and CO2 management, which is demanded in large parts of the world. This is where we should use our human resources. This is where we should use our technological and financial resources. Our aim must be to have a large net export of clean energy and at the same time to build a supplier industry that is in line with the industry that has been linked to the oil and gas industry. It has been attempted as if there was a new momentum, a new situation, when this thorium debate was raised. It was produced as if thorium were a potential gold mine for Norway. This turned out to be an air lock. Reference may be made to the assessment by NGU, where the conclusions are crystal clear: the resources are not commercially usable and if a thorium power plant had been built in Norway, the fuel imported from abroad would have to be imported. The left is satisfied that the majority of the majority of the majority share the basic position left has always had in this matter. It is clearly established that the commercial use of nuclear power in Norway is not relevant. There are other areas we're going to bet on to do a job to generate energy for our part of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1136	The report of the Thorium Committee does not justify supporting or rejecting thorium for long-term energy production. According to the report, there is uncertainty about the Norwegian thorium deposits and their value. Thorium for nuclear power generation does not eliminate the problem of radioactive residues, but the waste problem is likely to be slightly less than in uranium-based solutions. Significant research and development remains before thorium-based nuclear power can become a reality. I believe that the report of the Thorium Committee does not provide the basis for a change in today's nuclear policy. This means that it is not appropriate to facilitate the construction of nuclear power in Norway. In order to meet the energy climate challenges, Norway should concentrate on and strengthen efforts in carbon capture and storage, renewable energy and energy efficiency rather than bet on what will be a new area for us, i.e. nuclear power. I got rid of this issue through the letter I sent to the Energy and Environment Committee on 6 November this year in response to the proposal for a representative now under consideration. I believe it would be inappropriate to launch a comprehensive reporting on the use of nuclear power in Norway when there is a broad political consensus to reject commercial use of conventional nuclear power in Norway. For most parties, policy is about priority. I think the most important thing now is to do more on renewable energy in relation to the new energy production, which is to be raised. Nuclear power, however, is an important part of the world’s energy balance today, including in Europe, and a number of countries are looking at the possibilities of stepping up their efforts. In addition, several other countries that do not have nuclear power today are looking at the possibilities of building nuclear power plants. In order for Norway to be up-to-date in the nuclear field and contribute to safety and waste research, it is important that we maintain the competence of what we have been working on in this area over the years. Norway is today a so-called third country within the Euratom programme, which means that we are participating on a project-to-project basis in the programme. About six million. kr has been set aside annually for Norwegian participation. The cost of full Norwegian membership of Euratom has been estimated at about 90 million. kr per. years. As a third country, we have access to research projects in areas of particular interest to Norway. I cannot therefore see that, in the current situation, we are served with full membership of Euratom.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1148	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1151	It is actually a little sad to record the development of this case in the Government. From having a government council in 2006 that had some thoughts about the world’s energy supply and about the importance of energy sources that could contribute, and thus seeing a potential where Norway has special resources, special occurrences, one has now moved almost not at all to care about the issue, but, on the contrary, only to look at actions within its own borders. I would like to see us do more on renewable energy. The government's results so far show that it's done very little, so here it absolutely has to do a job. This does not mean, however, that the expertise that, after all, exists in Norway in this, the resources that exist, should also be better used in this context. In order to maintain competence, one indicates that a worker selectively works with Euratom on some issues, but it is also important that we have competent people in Norway who can be involved and contribute here. Today, there is one major student in nuclear-related work at the University of Oslo. How does the Council of State see that in the future we will have competent people who can work with these kinds of questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1158	I have no further comments on what I said in my post, that we have some environments today that are working on this, based on, I was saying, the limited traditions we have within nuclear power. It is intended to continue, but besides that I have nothing more to add to that debate now. What I think is the important thing about the debate that is being debated today is the priority question about this. Today we have started discussing energy efficiency improvement, which Stortinget is concerned about. Last Wednesday during the Question Time in Stortinget it was the development of wind power that was on the agenda – I do not ignore the fact that we are going to discuss hydropower later today. I think it's necessary to say yes to something, and really prioritize something in practice, one must also say no to something. I mean, if you're going to take care of the overall, that our ability to contribute to solving the world's energy and climate challenges is significantly greater by working on carbon, capture and storage, by working on the hydropower side, and also on the wind in the future, than by entering an area where Norway has no special advantage, has no special competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1165	No more words have been asked for a line. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1168	It could have been worth asking more questions too, but with a council that obviously doesn't want to discuss the topic, it doesn't have any purpose to force him to stand on the platform. Looking at an IEA report on how to achieve the 450 ppm target, the potential that nuclear power represents is more important than the potential that CCS represents in order to achieve that goal. This means that Norway should have a separate interest in this. We have environments today that are good, we have environments that work for Sweden. But what one ignores is that these environments are getting pretty gray-haired. They admit it themselves. When a book on thorium was launched last Monday, the industry confirmed that they need to fill young people with skills, who have a will and a desire to do this. It sees you when a travels around universities, that there is a considerable amount of young people who think this is exciting, who will be involved and contribute, not because they have a vision of building this in Norway, but because this as an international industry is so important for the total energy supply that it is important to develop it. Because one in Norway has many perspectives on the environment, on waste management and on safety, we have the attitudes that are also needed to help us move in the direction we want, rather than taking sides and saying that this does not want us to have our fingers in this at all. It's very passive and very sad, and it's almost that one can't take the ones who are talking about the highest risk of climate change because of CO2 emissions, seriously, when they're going to shut down today's oil and gas activities in Norway, as the IEA says, should be maintained, and not look at nuclear power, should not look at hydropower in Norway of importance, and have not managed to get other renewable energy systems in place that trigger investment. So to the State Radiation Protection: I talked to those who made the report in the State Radiation Protection, as opposed to others in the debate that would like to see only the NRK. State radiation protection did not take a stand for or against nuclear power. It wasn't that they said this was as bad whether it was thorium or uranium. They just said it was equal. But it could be just as little dangerous, or it could be just as much dangerous. Obviously, the State’s radiation protection system does not pose any safety risks in what one operates in Finland. That's why I think it's pretty cowardly of SV to assign the state's radiation protection opinions they don't have. When the Norwegian government does not see the problem of nuclear power plants in Finland, why can one then claim that the State's radiation protection system is dangerous with nuclear power in Norway and at all dangerous to look at nuclear power in Norway? It is also worth noting that the State's radiation protection was not based on a modern thorium-based nuclear power plant, but they were based on a normal reactor, where some uranium was replaced by thorium, but otherwise everything was similar. Then it's no wonder that one gets the same results, because that's exactly the same technology you use. It shows that the debate needs a level of knowledge that is higher than what we have had today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1180	It would have been important if the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen actually said what he meant, whether it was important with nuclear power or not. In his main post, he devalued his own proposal by saying that the majority would turn this matter into a debate for or against nuclear power. Yes, the majority must take the proposal and the reasons for the proposal seriously. That is what we have done, which is why we have dealt with it in the committee. The proposer, in his introduction, justified the need for nuclear power by pointing out what is happening in other countries, and also prophesying that we will probably be dependent on nuclear power in the future. He also called for a commitment to know nuclear technology and full membership of Euratom. The Council of State very much responded to what was happening, and pointed out the knowledge we have in Norway through the activities of the Institute of Energy Engineering at the Halden reactor and Kjeller. So to the extent that Norway should have an interest in participating in this work, we as a third country, as mentioned earlier here, can participate with the projects that we want, within, for example. radiation protection, waste management and safety. I don't need to defend former state councils in the oil and energy sector, but neither former state councillor Enoxen nor former state councillor Haga has said anything about using resources on nuclear power and on thorium research here in the staging room – I haven't seen it in minutes or heard it myself. Then I think it's very regrettable, whether it's said in this room or otherwise, that nuclear power should be the answer to the world's climate challenges. I think it's sad because it's a rhetoric that shows a total lack of what's the main problem with nuclear power. It's not the operation itself, although in my post I pointed to examples of very dangerous accidents, but it's the management of the waste that's the big problem for the generations of the past, which we carry with us over hundreds of thousands of years. That's what makes the majority here not want to go into this as a road, but thinks that in Norway we have completely different opportunities to provide secure energy supply than nuclear power.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1191	A significant proportion of the representatives of the government parties are trying to make this a debate on yes or no to nuclear power. It's not. Because there are no alternatives that can replace today's nuclear power generation in the world. Our neighbouring country in the east, Finland, has already started one project and is about to start another. It's quite obvious to everyone that Sweden is also going to do that. In contrast to many of today's speakers, then, Sweden and Finland, which have quite similar political systems to ours, and which impose the same environmental safety requirements as ours, believe that the final solution to the waste problem has been found. So to reject this without further ado, I don't think I'm right. Former Councillor Enoxsen was not concerned with nuclear power, it says. You might say that, but I'm going to disagree with that, because the Enoch stood in this room, under pressure from, among other things. The Progress Party, and said that now he had turned around the issue of thorium and put down a thorium selection, which has spent considerable time and resources, including taxpayers' money, to work out a note on thorium where research on nuclear power is largely positive. So it is that the representatives of the government parties very often refer to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. The leader of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, nuclear researcher Pachauri from India, has said that nuclear power will be an essential part of the solution to the global climate challenges – a view that is also shared by Hans Blix, who is repeatedly quoted in other contexts by the members of the government parties. So nuclear power will be an essential part of the solution to the global climate challenges, these people say. I am absolutely sure that the purification of gas power will never be an essential part of the solution to the global climate challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1202	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 914]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1218	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that five replies be given within the allocated speaking time after contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1227	In this debate we are asked to consider a proposal from representatives Elisabeth Aspaker, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, Øyvind Halleraker and Ivar Kristiansen to ask the Government to issue a national green certificate market. There is a great commitment from a broad political plurality in this room to establish a green certificate market with Sweden. Such a market could provide good incentives for new renewable energy production and at an even higher rate than today. At the same time, the Committee gathers that ensuring the production of renewable energy to cover own consumption and for future exports is one of Norway’s main contributions to reducing global greenhouse gas emissions. Many were disappointed when the first attempt to establish such a market did not occur at the beginning of this ageing period. This House informs the Council of State by letter to the Committee that the Government has now established an understanding with Sweden of the development of a single market for electricity certificates and that one aims to complete the work by 1 October next year. This work has broad political support, which is further supported by the Climate Change Agreement between the Government Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Right. While minority think one should start the work of a national market for green certificates at the same time as one has conversations with the Swedish government, the plural believes that we should stick to the strategy of the Norwegian government and recommend the Stortinget for further work. I'm going to assume that the minority itself is going to do well for their eyesight and present the suggestions that they think are going to follow the setting. The majority of the Committee fully supports the Government in establishing a Norwegian-Swedish certificate market. Until it is in place, the plurality indicates that the main hub for promoting renewable energy production is Enova. The 2008 agreement between the State and Enova envisages triggering 18 TWh new environmentally friendly energy production and energy saving by the end of 2011. The base year is 2001. Minimum 4 new TWh water-borne heat from renewable sources and 3 TWh new energy from wind power shall be contractually fixed by the end of 2010. In the coming financial year, Enova has a framework of nearly SEK 1.5 billion, which makes a significant contribution to achieving the offensive targets that one has taken on. According to the Centre Party and the rest of the majority’s view, increased renewable energy production is both right and important. It is important not only to ensure own production, but because renewable energy from our country can eventually replace non-energy power generation in Europe, and in this way we can help reduce CO2 emissions. Workplaces and skills development are important additional effects of such a commitment. The majority believe that the goal of increasing renewable energy production is best achieved by continuing to invest in Enova and continuing to work on the establishment of a Norwegian-Swedish certificate market. Against this background, the majority argue that the submission should be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1251	It is beginning to approach a year since we reached an agreement among all parties, with the exception of the Progress Party, on a settlement on climate policy in the Stortinget. It was an important roadblock and evidence that the Storting is able to gather on some important, long-term objectives and instruments in a policy area of such seriousness that it requires us to be able to put party politics aside to find the good solutions. I think sincerity is great in all parties' commitment to further developing new renewable energy in Norway. This applies to both the positions and the opposition. We are all concerned about setting up an agreement with Sweden on a common green certificate market as soon as possible, and we are concerned that the processes around the EU's renewable directive should go as quickly as possible and not put new obstacles in the way. In the meantime, we must have support mechanisms to ensure that renewable energy is actually built. The name of the scheme is not important – the important thing is that it is built. Of course, proposers are not the first to think of a national certification market. At the time of the submission of the gas report in 2004, the issue of green certificates was also widely addressed. At the time, it was the Right that had the Minister of Energy, an interesting point in itself, and then a national certification market was written about the fact that a certification market for electricity would hardly function properly if it were added to only a national market in Norway. Fears included: that in such a market there would be large price fluctuations and low predictability for operators. It is further written that this must be seen in the context of the fact that in Norway, for many years, small volumes will be placed on the market of the types of electricity production that might be included in such a market. Long transitional arrangements are also likely to be necessary, wrote the Department at that time. This has been discussed before and received little support from experts. It's because such a market will be very narrow. There is probably not enough volume of new renewable energy in Norway to get a market with enough actors to stand up and where price formation is taking place in a good way. A market-based instrument depends on a market that actually works. The experts fear, of course, that the market becomes unstable with wide variations in the licence price. There won't be much luck in a situation where we're all concerned about getting more long-term and more predictability in the framework conditions. Nor is there any doubt that the real gains in a certificate market are in international trade, where countries can take advantage of their advantages, where the volume is larger and where there is less market power. The proposers refer to Sweden. Renewable production was higher than 6 TWh in 2003 when the market was introduced. Now they're up in almost 13 TWh. So there's no doubt that the certificate market has worked, but they actually started with a different volume than what we do. Although the breadth and diversity of operators are important, the volume of the market is crucial for rational pricing. I am pleased that, before the summer, the Minister of Oil and Energy and the Swedish Minister of Industry agreed to cooperate to establish a common electricity certificate market. I think it makes sense to follow that main track with full gravity. It is reasonable to propose an investigation into the national certification market, but it is of course the case that all investigations, notifications and all plans take the focus away from getting the measures in place. Until a single Norwegian-Swedish market is in place, it is, as I said, important that it be built. So the government has doubled Enova's funds for energy, and we're up to over NOK 1.4 billion. It is a significant contribution to achieving the objective of increasing investment in and production of renewable energy. Then it opens up a higher level of aid through Enova by the ceiling on investment aid for wind power of 25 pst. has been removed. It turns out to be working. Several wind power projects have received a clear signal in the last few months – Unfortunately the wind power park in Rogaland, Havsul In wind power plants, which is a very exciting project, Haram wind power plant in Møre and Romesdal – and now last, just a few days ago, the Oil and Energy Ministry granted a concession to build a wind farm in the municipality of Karlsøy in Troms. In other words, there is every reason to believe that we will be able to achieve the target of 3 TWh wind power by 2010. It's actually the most important thing. I agree with those who believe that investment aid is not the best. It makes more sense to reward actual production and exploit market forces in the way green certificates do. But the increased investment aid works. It makes the projects come up. It's a transitional arrangement, so I think it's now important that we work with, and have a full focus on, getting the common green certification market, which we all agree we want, in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1274	In this debate, as in the previous, we were presented by the Government that it is more important to act than to provide investigations. Yeah, I totally agree. The problem is when there is a lack of action on the part of the Government — a deliverr of objectives, but never of instruments. Then the opposition has only two alternatives. One is a coup d'état, the other is to ask the government to bring matters to the Grand Government. We prefer the last one because we trust that 2009 will open up for what we really want. This is about systems. It is about choosing green certificates or subsidy schemes through Enova. Unfortunately, the government has opted for the last, despite the fact that a hearing in the Energy and Environment Committee in 2006 — there are two government councils since the Ministry — showed that all the hearing bodies, all 14, agreed that green certificates were far superior to what the Government proposed in its comprehensive four-page survey report. All 14 recommended green certificates, but most of the tools have been scrapped from the big message. This shows that there is a constant change in the framework conditions. The industry does not know what to do with it, and one does not trigger the potential in the Norwegian energy industry. It's just to trigger the potential that's important here. One can stand and decorate until one gets blue in terms of how good one is to give money to Enova, but when the system doesn't give the trigger of the project as one wants, one has not achieved the goal. Then we should take a discussion: have we chosen the right system? The industry, the environmental movement and the opposition have said no, one has not chosen the right system. Neither did the government parties say that when they themselves were in opposition, because then green certificates were the saluting. But when they got in position, they took away the system. There are many reasons why that happened. The government says that it was because one did not get an agreement with Sweden that protected Norwegian interests, the burden-sharing was distorted, and probably all the capital would go to Sweden. There are a lot of people who question how to get to it. In 2004, Econ had a report that showed that in a common green certificate market with Sweden, Norway would have better water resources again, we had better wind resources, and we had better bioenergy resources. In all the project areas, Norway was the country where capital came into existence. If we then get a burden-sharing where capital goes the other way, it must be because this government has chosen technology requirements that make it not interesting to invest in Norway. It all points out when you see what the Soria Moria statement says, that small-scale power plants should not be part of the scheme of green certificates. Ergo: the energy plant that would give the most power with the lowest possible need for subsidies has been removed from the Government. Then it's no wonder that you get that conclusion, that green certificates don't work. Therefore, it is so incredibly important in the work carried out by the Government, that one goes away from the technology-based scheme that has been in place, puts in place a technology-neutral system in line with Sweden, ensures that different projects in the countries are treated in a non-discriminatory manner, and that no SV here will be able to sabotage the renewable effort for another year. It is clear that a Swedish-Norwegian system would be far preferable to one that was only Norwegian. I don't think the Right has any problems admitting. But this is a step on the way. This is a step on the way to getting a system that works, a system that industry can also start to deal with, knowing that in one or two years' time, when both Norway and Sweden have got their requirements in relation to the EU renewable directive, they can collide the rest. But then a few triggers in the investments today, because you know you have a plan to deal with tomorrow. Then it is very sad to see that the signals coming from the Government when reference is made to the EU renewable directive are negative. We show you all the way that we can't do anything with the Swedes until they know what they have with Sweden. However, everything indicates that Norway will have similar obligations, and then a rapid end can come to the approach taken by the Government, that once the Swedishs have been cleared up, they will have to sit and wait for Norway to clarify its position with the EU. When we're going to do things in our usual way in a strange way, it goes quickly a few more years. That's what we've seen on the CO2 emission response -- as an example. With the dark signals from the Government, that we in Norway are trying to reduce our commitments to the EU's renewable directive, while at the same time making a political debate as if we were to be the world champion, one should definitely say that OK, we are going to take the objectives of the EU and implement what they have, as long as we have demands that are in line with others. This is why it is so important to put in place a green certificate market in Norway now, so that we can start that process and gain confidence in the industry. I take this up the proposal of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1290	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1293	First to the representative Marianne Marthinsen, who said a lot in his post. Let me just say that it's happened a lot since 2004. It was the Swedes who then asked for more time. We are now five years in the future, and both maps and terrain have in many ways changed quite strongly since that time. In fact, Sweden introduced a national renewable energy support regime on 1 May 2003. In Norway, today’s government has introduced a kind of wait-and-see attitude. The response that came six months ago from the Council of State was Enova. It also says that the Ministry of Oil and Energy does not see the need to investigate the matter, and that is not surprising. However, the starting point was the same in Sweden as today’s Norwegian stand, i.e. to replace an existing subsidy system that does not function properly, with a more cost-effective market-based system that provides incentives for the creation of new renewable energy. The Swedish scheme was adopted in the Riksdag in 2003 and was put into operation the same year. One of the main challenges facing the established Swedish regime was to ensure sufficient liquidity in the market, so that the price picture could be secured from day one, as we can see in Norway in 2008 and 2009. This was achieved by including a smaller proportion of existing renewable energy production from the outset. The Swedish electricity certificate market was from the outset dominated by biofuels, typical forest industries and municipal heat generators. These are relatively large producers with what we can call a more or less significant market power in the Swedish electricity licence market. This has gradually improved, with some wind power and some hydropower generation. In other words, the Swedish electricity certificate market was and is concentrated on a smaller number of producers, and therefore it has been of interest from the Swedish side to connect to Norwegian producers and Norwegian buyers. In Sweden, the number of buyers, i.e. distributors of power and industrial customers, significantly lower than in Norway. If you look at a purely Norwegian certificate solution, it will have a better starting point compared to the Swedish national scheme. The number of actors, i.e. producers and buyers will be higher in Norway mainly because on the manufacturer’s side there are small operators on the Norwegian side. This is favourable and means that a purely Norwegian market would be easier to set a fair market price compared to the Swedish market. This requires, in principle, only a crucial decision, which I believe is in many ways ready for collapse and government, namely the agreed objective of including small scale hydropower and wind power which had started later than January 2004 in the scheme, that of course the request adopted had to be based. This was part of the legislative proposal put forward by the Ministry during the previous enlargement period, which was so much affected by Marthinsen, in the context of a Norwegian-Swedish certification system, which is, of course, also Højre's primary wish, also after all a Nordic and perhaps a Northern European solution. Such a rule would result in the initial liquidity of a purely Norwegian certificate market ensuring the functioning of the market from day one. In other words, a Norwegian green certificate market will be more liquid than the Swedish system was when we go back to 2003, i.e. five to six years ago. Right no longer wants a wait-and-see attitude. The climate agreement meant that if no Norwegian-Swedish solution was in place on 1 July 2008, the government would come up with a solution that would lead to aid schemes for conversion to very good renewable energy production. This has not come. The rapporteur now says that there might be a solution with Sweden in October 2009. This is too long to wait. So, in a situation where Norway might implement the EU renewable directive, we go into lost years with open eyes. There's a situation right doesn't want to be on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1306	For us in SV, it is essential that we put in place better renewable energy schemes, including heat. We put great emphasis on putting in place a green certificate market with Sweden, and we see the EU's renewable directive as an important tool on the road. The government has gained an understanding with Sweden about the development of a single market for electricity certificates. We're very pleased with that. This work has been completed by 1 October 2009. We have always agreed with the proposers that it is important to increase the production of new renewable energy. The production of renewable energy for own use and for future exports is one of the main instruments Norway can contribute to the work on greenhouse gas emissions. Åslaug Haga said when she was the Council of State that Norway could become Europe's green battery. Hopefully, we can also use the wind turbines that we're now going to build in the future to fill the batteries that are going to supply the modern car park, as well. The representative Lien and I talked about the electrified or partial-electricated car park. The main tools of the government in increasing the production of renewable energy are, as has been said here, Enova. But we in SV want a well-functioning market both for electricity and for heat. It's the most effective thing. Nevertheless, I would like to emphasise that the transitional arrangement until this happens is that we have had a lifting of the ceiling on investment aid for wind power, together with a strong increase in the Enova framework and a strong strengthening of the NVE's procedural capacity. This is important grip. Enova shall, through its use of the instrument, trigger projects providing new environmentally friendly energy production and energy saving equivalent to 18 TWh/year by the end of 2011. The base year is 2001. By the end of 2010, they shall contribute to a minimum of 4 TWh/year of increased availability of waterborne heat based on new renewable energy sources, waste heat and heat pumps and a minimum of 3 TWh/year of increased wind power generation. The government's 2009 budget proposals will add EUR 1426 million to Enova. kr for energy purposes, which is a strong increase. I fully understand the arguments for investigating a national certificate market, but we think it is more appropriate to spend time on the tools we have outlined in the setting, not least on wind, on the work on the renewable directive and on the negotiations with Sweden. That's enough to do in the coming year, and we're going to press for the work to be done. I also expect the Council of State to be tough ahead to ensure that we get up much more production of new renewable energy than we have now. We all agree on the government side that we need to. The reason is that we have now been presented with facts that show that the world's dependence on fossil energy represents a direct threat to the future of the earth. The International Energy Agency characterised today's business a few weeks ago the reference scenario and the consequences it would entail, such as Ragnarok. Clearly, we have to contribute to Norway with the energy resources we have so that we can be part of the solution and not part of the problem in the future. In addition, as I also pointed out in a previous debate, it is a good idea that we should change. It's good to bet on what's future solutions, what's modern solutions. I used the example Think versus General Motors. I think that is a good example. Those who focus on the solutions of the past by focusing unilaterally on fossil solutions, and not least on low energy efficiency solutions, will go out as losers, while those who focus on the environmentally friendly and forward-looking solutions will go out as winners. So this isn't just about saving the world, it's also about positioning ourselves in a market that in the future is going to look pretty different than it does today. It is then clear that Norwegian competitiveness also depends on us being able to deliver in the areas that represent the future, to put it that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1321	I will begin my post by screwing back the time six days and quoting the Council of State Riis-Johansen in this hall: ‘I must admit that when this government took up the government offices, there was no scheme there for green certificates.’ The Council of State was also not more narrow than the fact that he now wanted to welcome the opposition in today's business on Friday after establishing a common green certificate market with Sweden. The opinions of the Council of State are not merely eloquent and perceptive. He also speaks against better knowledge. Because it is known, and has been known for a long time, that the Bondevik II government actively worked to establish a common green certificate market with Sweden in the pre-departure period. The representative Marthinsen has quoted himself from St.meld. No 47 for 2003–2004 earlier in this debate. So we had a plan to present a legislative proposal during 2005, with a view to launching the certificate market in 2006. In the 2005 government budget, prepared by the Bondevik II Government, and subsequently taken over by the red-green government, there was also considerable funding to establish a green certificate market in the NVE’s operating budget and also elsewhere in the budget. So there was a set of green certificates on the table when the red-greens took over. But the scheme was rejected by Minister of Oil and Energy, Enoxen, because he thought it was too expensive for Norwegian consumers. The result of Enoxen’s decision is three years wasted on renewables. In the climate negotiations just one year ago, the Government was pressured by the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left to resume negotiations with Sweden. It was in itself a confession that there was an unwise decision the government made when they shrank the negotiations with the Swedes in 2006. In the climate agreement, the Government promised to come back to Stortinget with a proposal for the conversion of the renewable electricity scheme if it was not possible to obtain a result for green certificates by 1 July this year. The agreement was that the aid scheme should be set up in such a way as to facilitate, over time, the increased deployment of renewable energy in Norway at the same scale as a scheme of green certificates would have provided. Unfortunately, the government has not delivered at this point. There has been a unilateral commitment to investment aid for wind power before 1 July 2008, the contract date we had. Other technologies, such as small power, wave power, solar power and salt power, can currently look far beyond predictable and better framework conditions. In view of this, it is incomprehensible to me that the Minister of Oil and Energy takes the position he takes in relation to the opposition's work on green certificates. He speaks against better knowledge, and I think he should hold on too well. Because it's like we have a government council that says we're leading in the development and development of renewable energy. He refers to our renewable share of 60 p.m., and therefore we are a leading country in Europe on renewable energy. I'll call this a rhetorical trick. The truth is that we have one of Europe's worst support systems in relation to the development of renewable energy. Therefore, green certificates are so important to get in place. When Norwegian investors choose to invest billions of dollars in the United Kingdom or Germany instead of doing so in Norway, it is because we have poor framework conditions. Norway’s high share of renewable energy is due to large-scale hydropower deployment in the period 1917 to 1980. Governments use this time and the work that was done then, as an argument to say that we are the best in the class. I respect politicians who have gone ahead. I have respect for Gunnar Knudsen, the father of the Concession Act and great-grandfather of today's Council of State. Yes, I respect the work that he and his generation did. But today's politicians cannot rest on the laurels for the work he and his generation did. Therefore, the Christian People's Party fully supports today's proposal to issue a national market for green certificates, because the last few years' stagnation in the changes to the framework conditions for renewable energy means that it is now important to find a stable transitional regime until we have been able to establish the Norwegian-Swedish certification market.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1348	The current state is that figures show that last year greenhouse gas emissions increased by 3 pst, after two years of reduction. So we're going the wrong way. At the same time, it is necessary to go far into government offices, deep into government parties, in order to find someone who thinks that the government's policy on renewable energy is worth cheering for. A co-ordinated industry believes that a lack of and poor support regime has contributed to the failure to exploit the potential in this area. In this situation, it seems increasingly regrettable that the government dropped cooperation with Sweden on green certificates. It would have been a powerful system that had triggered significant production. The previous government would have green certificates. The finality of the system can be discussed. But it was raised beyond doubt that the previous government went in for that arrangement. Today's government has removed it. Therefore, it is completely wrong when today’s government says that more than the predecessors of renewable energy production are charged, because it would be the previous government’s intention to have a green certification system in combination with Enova. It would give more power to the system, and more renewable energy resources would be channelled than the current government adds. The problem with today's system, although the framework has been extended for each project, is that it is dependent on reaching in the application process, and it is dependent on the input of enough money to enable a sufficient number of projects to receive a clear signal. There's still to be seen what's going to be the result of this. What we know for sure is that it seems to be delaying on many positive projects. It was important that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left joined the Government in resuming negotiations with Sweden, despite the fact that the Green Certificate Market was a poor solution, a poor solution, and that a support regime was much better. Many times in this room, with great enthusiasm, the prime minister and government councillor said that they had a system that was better than green certificates. Therefore, it was important that we got the moment of truth in the climate negotiations, and put in place a negotiating arrangement with Sweden. I'm not sure if today's government will arrive this time. I hope so, but I'm not sure. Therefore, it is a good idea to investigate in parallel a national certification market as a transitional arrangement, even if it has its obvious weaknesses. But it could be an option if you didn't make it to Sweden, or if it went out. One of the other reasons why I am very impatient in this area is that the industrial opportunities associated with renewable energy production are not strongly enough. I think we can build a strong Norwegian industry related to renewable energy production both at sea and on land. And there can be a business cluster of subcontractors here that can be of great importance across large parts of the country. So the effort that has been lacking by the Government has had energy policy implications, but has also led to the fact that one has not exploited a nutritional potential for which we could have made good use in the times we are now in.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1365	I want a common green certificate market with Sweden. I think it is a good solution if we are able to complete the negotiations that we have started. I believe that a green certificate market that works will be a predictable system for business. And it'll be a market-based system that has a lot of good things to do with it. For me, the message is the same now as it was the day I joined, when I said that it was one of the most important things that was on my table. That's still the case. What's good is that from that date until now we've had meetings both at political level – I've had meetings with Maud Olofsson, my Swedish colleague in this area, about it – and administratively to work concretely on the progress around it. The desire to get something here, it sounds like it's evenly distributed in this room, and I'll do mine for a green certificate market to come into place. Then I think that the point made by the representative Kvassheim when it came to the post from the representative Holten Hemdal was in place, based on the differences around this. The reality is that the concepts used here, that it's been actively working from other governments as well, and that there wasn't a pre-attached arrangement on the table that was pushed aside, is a straightforward description of this, and so it's a contribution that that's not what we need to spend time discussing further in the future. With regard to the issue of a national certificate market, I think the debate is interesting as to how it could work. It is possible to imagine solutions based on that, although I think that the representative Kristiansen is wrong when he says that things are very different now compared to what the Right and Right Councils in my chair thought about this a few years ago. There are some obvious challenges here. What I think is another quite significant point in this connection, is what the opposition itself has brought up with me countless times. It is related to predictability. What I understand is that the opposition in Stortinget believes that it is important for the energy industry to have predictability in terms of the support system and framework conditions, and that one of the opposition's views is that it has been tried to obtain a green certificate market, that it has been tried to have a feed-in system to function, and that now it has an investment support system and a possible green certificate market to wait, is a challenge in terms of getting new forms of energy up and down. If you're going to follow that reasoning, I think the only logical conclusion now is that we're going to stick to the arrangement we have, while we're working on a certificate market. This means using funds for investment support at the same time as a green certificate market is in place. Then we can discuss the level. It is fully possible to believe that we should spend more money on it in 2010 than it was committed to in 2009 and that the market is ready to absorb more investment aid than it is now. It's possible to spend more money on the Energy Fund. I believe that this is the most sober, factual debate in relation to expanding a system that the industry is now aware of, and which is communicated outside, pending the arrival of green certificates. Then I have to say to the representative Holten Hemdal, when the word rhetoric is used about my statements that Norway is a leading country on the renewable side, because we have a share of 60 pst. of renewable energy, while e.g. England has 2 pst. That I think it's an eye-catching statement. I believe it is a fact that we have succeeded in developing renewable energy in a completely different way from what most other countries have done. So we can say that we've been lucky enough to have had so many freak cases to take off, but it's about prioritizing. It's about a policy to exploit the natural resources we have, and thus ensure that electricity in it all, everything essential is produced through renewable energy. This does not mean that we should not go further, but we must then be proud to have come three times as far as the European Union has set as its goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1381	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1384	There will be rhetoric when the Council of State repeatedly takes the credit for Norway’s large renewable share as if there is something for which this government is responsible, when one knows that very little of what has been realized today by renewable energy was realised under this government. The potential is not triggered. In the Political Quarter yesterday, this was debated. The Council of State claimed that the investment support system currently used by the Government is a good system. At the same time, one knows that both StatoilHydro and StatoilHydro are taking their wind energy investments out of the country. Capital flows out of the country, not to Norway. Fred. The oil is moving out of the country. The question then is: when one so deeply in the Political Quarter embraced the investment support and said that this was a good system – one got the last word in the debate as well and said that this was a good system – I hope not it means that we can interpret it as that the Council of State actually prefers this rather than green certificates. Can he cancel it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1391	In order to make history short, I can just say that I can cancel it and thus confirm what is the demander's ambitions to get out, that green certificates will be a positive contribution to the Norwegian energy market. I welcome the green certificate market and believe, what I just said here on the platform, that we have an investment support system as an important tool while working with a green certificate market.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1396	In the argument for investment aid, the Council of State also today compared the figures from the United Kingdom and Norway in terms of the share of renewable energy. I think that in any case, we'll be able to record, as the previous replicator was about, that pending green certificates, Peace will be added. Olsen, REC founder Bjørset, Hammerfest Energie and Statkraft have their most important cards abroad. Riis-Johansen's predecessor, Åslaug Haga, stated a year ago: ‘I become alarmed when I record that the large investments in renewable energy take place outside Norway. It can hardly be understood in any other way than that the schemes we have in Norway are too poor.’ I hope I've quoted Åslaug Haga correctly. What is the Council of State Riis-Johansen here understood as Åslaug Haga did not understand at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1408	My point is that we have now developed in the field of energy – also towards electricity – the same as in the field of oil and gas, large Norwegian companies operating in Europe, and we can say globally. And just as StatoilHydro has evolved into a big company that makes big investments on Norwegian base, by also being good on other countries' markets, I believe that Statekraft, which is big on renewable energy, is also gaining competence by investing out. So I believe that it is that State force e.g. is present in the UK, UK, and is involved in the efforts being made now, can be an important contribution to the success of State power in developing the Norwegian sector, for example. offshore wind in the North Sea, the Norwegian Sea and possibly northwards from there.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1415	The council is trying to assign opinions that I don't have, and that I didn't say in my post, to have completed nailed schemes in the case of green certificates. It has never been in my mouth before, but I now had to quote the Council of State on this. I would like to go to the letter that the Council of State wrote to the Committee on 28 August: « a higher level of support for triggering new projects». [[...]] In what areas have the Councils provided a better level of support in terms of small-scale power, wave power, solar energy and salinity compared to the signal sent by the Council of State to the Committee on 28 August?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1422	That's a two-part answer to that. In the areas mentioned outside the wind, Enova has been sitting and assessing what is going on to get profitable projects moving. In the case of wind, we have had a discussion around the 25 p.m. limit on aid, which has now been removed, because we saw that at the previous allocation round, aid was granted without projects being realised. So it's perfectly obvious that a support intensities of 25 pst. was too small to realise the major wind power projects. Now Enova has received seven applications for wind. There are applications based on the possibility of higher aid than 25 pst. I assume that it also contributes to bringing up wind power projects that would otherwise not come up as a result of the legislation we had earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1431	There's no reason to say that the previous replicator and I had a different approach in terms of green certificates. What I said was that it could be discussed how far the project had come. But the most important thing is to state that the previous government wanted a set of green certificates. This government has removed it. The climate agreement states that one should enter into negotiations with Sweden on a green certificate market. If not in place in the summer of 2008, a few options have to be equally powerful. What the Government has come up with is a replenishment of the Energy Fund by DKK 10 billion, which will increase the return in 2010. Can the Council explain to me how a clarification with Sweden in the summer of 2008, which would give predictability to those waiting for an investment decision, can be replaced by a system that provides more money in 2010?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1438	What has been done to improve incentives for individual projects is that the restriction on aid to projects has been removed. So in this way, it's going to allow for a better economy in the individual project than in the past, because you've had that limit of 25 pst. It is the concrete thing that has been done to improve the profitability of the individual project. As for the overall level of support, it is right that the representative Kvassheim says that we have now made a run of provisions through the Energy Fund. This means that there will be a gradual increase in total aid in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1445	In January 2006, it was written in Montel Powernews that Swedish dealers who had negotiated with the Norwegian government on the first attempt had the impression that the Norwegian dealers would not really have a solution, and they interpreted it as it was about wanting a very technology-specific green certificate scheme in Norway. This is a principle that it may be right for the Council of State to clarify for the Storting. It's about a yes or a no to small power. It is also a yes or a no to bioelectricity based on bioenergy in industry. But this is primarily a principle. Is it the case that in these negotiations currently under way, the Council of State will take into account the objective of maximising technology neutrality in the green certificate system?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1452	As both today and in the past, negotiations are now under way – and at an early stage related to what is happening around the EU's renewable directive. As I said in Stortinget last Wednesday, I think it is completely wrong for me now to start commenting on individual items in relation to a negotiation situation and a negotiated solution. My ambition is to put in place a scheme that is as good as possible in terms of what we want to put in place to bring about new renewable energy in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1460	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1465	There is a significant pressure from the Council of State that now goes away from last week's false claims that this government has done a lot within green certificates, and that the previous government had done nothing at all. I am pleased that the Council of State is now clarifying its claims, for the matter is that the Bondevik II administration did a lot to have a green certificate market in place, which would have given a completely different support system and a completely different power development within renewable energy. I think it is a good idea to start as the representative of Kvassheim did, namely that greenhouse gas emissions in Norway are increasing, Norway is going in the wrong direction, and we see that we are not doing enough. We see that large Norwegian companies, like Statkraft and Fred. Olsen Renewables, in fact, invests considerable sums out, but fails to invest as much at home. This is precisely because the support system in Norway is far from being found. It can even be said that Norway has one of the worst renewable energy support systems compared to the rest of Europe. The government's answer is only Enova. One comes back in the debate after debate with Enova as an answer and the closest thing to say is, what is the question? When green certificates were rejected by the Government, this bulking was promised at least as good support systems as the green certificate would have given. Then it is funny to see that nine out of ten planned wind power projects after the wrecking of green certificates lie in a drawer. There is an overall opposition that is involved in green certificates, and sees that it will be significantly better than what has so far come from the Government. That is also why today's opposition is united in proposing a national green certificate market, with which we are all agreed is a transitional regime and which is not preferable to an international certification market. Norway will be included in the EU renewable directive, and it will be very important that Norway is already ready to make the best possible use of it. We have a lot to do nationally. Let me just conclude by making some good suggestions to the Council of State, because I think the Council of State needs to: spend money on proceedings within the NVE – also make that procedure considerably more yes-oriented! Remove the county council and county council in proceedings, and transfer much to local democracy! And: Look at Enova's demand for returns – also in terms of aid intensity!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1483	Let me start by saying that I think it's fitly free to so far by the Left, but at least by the Right to refer to the increased CO2 emissions that we've now received, when we know where the CO2 emissions come from, and when we know what policies were pursued in the previous period when it was to limit emissions. Today's debate is about renewable energy and green certificates. It is claimed that the plans were made when the new government took over. Former oil and energy minister Odd Roger Enoksen replied with confirmation when we asked him: Yes, the plans were made – they were laid in a drawer. We have gradually taken up many of the failures that the previous government did in its energy policy, and we have cleaned up after the previous government. It also applies to NVE, which was mentioned here. So I can respect that we have different views when it comes to the scheme of green certificates. But what I have to take away from is the misery description that the particular Progress Party comes with when it comes to renewable production. So it's like, in the contract period you're in when it concerns renewable production, it's contractual with Enova 18 TWh. Only for hydropower, which we'll talk about later today, there was a clear signal for 1.2 TWh last year, and it's reported and applied for 7.5 new TWh with today's regime. Then, of course, it's okay to be more fond of yourself, but I think it's time for the Progress Party to take a round around the country and look at what's happening today in the renewable energy field, and at the production that's going on. From the Progress Party side of this room, even attempts have been made to talk away from their own program formulations – turbines, pipelines, wind farms and bioheaters can't talk away from them. One can go out and get to know them, and in parts of this country, the actual debate on networks – a debate that we are going to have here later today – is about building a capacity for networks that will allow the new energy production under seal to be brought out of the areas where he is being produced. As I said, it's okay to be more concerned, but I think it would have been a good idea for the Progress Party to be somewhat more nuanced with regard to what is the reality when it comes to renewable power production in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1502	Ketil Solvik-Olsen indicated that all 14 hearing bodies prefer green certificates. Yeah, we all agree on that. This proposal is about using resources and time to determine something which, in any case, should only be a transitional arrangement that has been envisaged, which has been assessed before and which the experts on certificates believe will work poorly. They did not mean that just in 2004, as the representative of Kristiansen said, it has been said at the latest as a comment on the proposal we are discussing today. We're in conversation with Sweden, there's a timetable. It must make sense to use the cancers and the focus on getting to it. You could call this a step on the way. However, it is not possible for a national certificate market to be linked to an international overnight market. There must be work to put in place common market places, guarantees of origin, etc. as the renewable directive will require. You can get the impression that this is a completely uncomplicated process. The opposition has spent a lot of time in this room complaining about unforeseeableness and several major changes in the framework conditions over a short period of time. Taking into account the considerable effort that has actually been made to double the Enovas framework in this area, it has sometimes reached heights that it is a little difficult to understand. But I'm going to give the opposition right in that what we need first and foremost now is predictability. A certificate market with too little volume quickly becomes one of the most unstable, most unpredictable things you can imagine, through a price setting that doesn't work. I think everyone understands that making an investment decision when you don't know what the licence price is going to be is reasonably hopeless. The green certificate point is not to remove all risks from its builder. While it is not to eliminate market forces, it is to ensure profitability over time in otherwise uncertain renewable projects. This is not achieved in an unstable market; it is achieved by the fundamental opposite. Skovholt Gitmark advised the Council of State to add more resources to the NVE. It is reasonably free of all the time the processing capacity of the NVE has doubled since 2005 and new 35 million. kr will be in place in the 2009 budget. The proposal presented today is a proposal that will cost much more than it benefits. Let's keep our focus on what's our main goal, that's the only thing that makes sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1511	It's a funny rhetoric when the government shuts down on the Right that it's not a green certificate market, when one in three years has not been able to deliver a green certificate market itself. It's pointless debate. Then I register that the representative Sande is trying to misunderstand what I am saying. I don't care about the industry because they don't deliver a project. I have relied on the political system not being able to realize the projects. Then a good look at those who work in the industry itself. Trond Ryslett, director of the Small Forces Association, said to the Energy magazine that it must be exasperating for the Government or red-green politicians to see that the power project is realized despite and not because of the government's policy. This is one of those who work in the industry, who feel that they are not supported by the Government, but that the Government is working against them. Fortunately, that does not mean that the industry is completely on its back and does nothing. But it's a plug in politics, in framework conditions, and in government agencies that means you can't realize any more. Then one can enjoy the 1.2 or 1.7 TWh as one more gives concession, but the potential is so infinitely bigger. The whole point of these debates we have today is that the alternative to government policy is not a vacuum, but that other political choices would have made you get bigger and better results and spent less money on it. The representative of Marthinsen seems to have wasted time investigating a scheme in which we hope to merge with Sweden, i.e. that a Norwegian green certificate market can be merged with a Swedish system. Instead, it would be a much better approach to develop an investment aid scheme that everyone fully agrees on should be scrapped. It's the pointless thing here. If a Norwegian system is to be developed, the point must be to develop a system that will later benefit from when one enters a larger market, not as one puts it away, and that will require the industry to change completely in relation to the use of instruments and the functioning of the scheme. A Norwegian green certificate market with its weaknesses would in any case be a step in the direction that the industry understood what they met when they were going into a Swedish market. I would therefore like the representative Marthinen to explain the logic of this. Finally, in the change of line, the Council of State still refuses to comment on the point of the Soria Moria Declaration on green certificates and that small-scale power plants are not included. I have full respect for the fact that during a continuous negotiation one does not go around saying what the status is. But here we are talking about a clarification of principles before a start to the detailed negotiations, where an overall Committee on Energy and the Environment in the budget setting now says that small-scale power plants are also part of what you should bet on. Last year it wasn't included, now it's included. Then I think the government should clear up for Stortinget if someone now includes small power plants in the negotiations with the Swedes, rather than hiding behind some kind of information. If it's so problematic for the government to say it openly in the Storting, a few taushets from all of the committee can, and say what you want to do with it. It's cowardly to hide behind this and hide its bad policy in the case of small power plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1524	For the Christian People's Party, it's being good managers to use the resources we have. Norway has a lot of hydropower resources and we have used them. That's why we have a high renewable share of over 60 pst. But that we have a high renewable share of 60 pst. does not mean that today we are leading in the development and development of renewable energy. Subtracting the parallel from the 60 percent to today's situation is for me a rhetorical trick that the Council of State tried to do last week in this room, and I'm on it. In my reply to the Council of State, I challenged him to the answer he gave in the Committee, that he would have a higher level of support for triggering new projects. The council then spent 45 seconds of the response to talk about wind power. I did not mention wind power, but small power, wave power, solar and salinity, and what higher level of support these four areas have received as a transitional arrangement until we all get there: the common green certificate market with Sweden, which is hopefully just the first start on a larger certification market together with other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1531	Marianne Marthinsen has had the word twice and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1534	The representative of Solvik-Olsen calls for the logic of my article. The logic is not about trying to identify a new framework for the renewable industry while we are in dialogue on a single certificate market. This will be two different things. We do not use the power to develop a new transitional system, as the representative Solvik-Olsen claims. We are strengthening a system that we already have, by lifting the ceiling on investment aid to wind power of 25 pst. That's predictability, and that's what the opposition has called for – here they get it. That's the logic.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1539	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 914]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1555	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1564	As regards Document No: 8:133 for 2007-2008, on web policy, I am pleased that we are a unanimous committee that is issuing an opinion today. I guess we see the electricity grid as a delicate nerve in a interconnected infrastructure. We depend on the functioning of the infrastructure and its optimalness, not least in terms of security of supply. It is precisely where the electricity grid has an invaluable impact. Most of the functions in today's society are geared towards major disruptions in the supply of electricity and, perhaps, some dramatic consequences. This relationship already pointed out to the red-green government at the time of accession. I believe that we can unquestionably conclude that in terms of security of supply and the relationship with the electricity system now in 2008, this is significantly different from when the current framework conditions were developed early in the 1990s. It was a goal when the framework conditions were set, that one should take out investments, and the capacity of the investments made in both the 1980s and 1990s, which were perhaps the largest. When the proposal in this case came up, there was a great deal of agreement on the descriptions behind the proposal from the Committee. In order to address the issue as a result of the wish of the proposers to send a big message, a joint committee has now concluded that it wishes to work on the subject as quickly as possible. The government has been reviewing the evaluation of the Energy Act for a long time, and it is approaching the end of that work. It is quite natural that network policy should be reviewed in this context. There is no doubt that we see clear and major challenges in our electricity grid, although it is variable because in which part of the country or area you are. The investment incentives are different than they should be. We see that maintenance is just being exposed to attracting money, and we see a renewal phase in some places that are waiting for over 100 years. A vulnerable infrastructure such as the electricity system will face problems when that is the case. Similarly, we see that the relationship to the network and production is varied, and that it is not always well cared for. If one goes from the overall perspective of the central network, one sees that Mid-Norway has worn out being excluded from important areas of power. In the summer when power exchange lines to the outside world were out of service for a period of time, we saw that south-east Norway had limited power with low prices. So it's essential both for pricing and for security of supply that the network works optimally. We also see now, in the context of the discussions that have taken place in front of this case here in the Chamber, that creating a scheme for green certificates will not automatically lead to a getting more power production in Norway, especially given that it is difficult to connect to the network in many places, and that there are power builders who in many cases have to bear the costs alone. There are many complex issues that you're familiar with over time, and it's been working on the topic. We are a unanimous committee that wants to have this reviewed in the context of the evaluation of the Energy Act, and that work is already well under way. When I recommend the position of the chairman of the committee, I would like to stress that I believe it is important to have as broad a review of the network policy as possible within the timescales available, and also that measures to address the issues that you now see are being resolved as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1581	Internet policy is important, but is often forgotten as part of the big energy policy whole – without networks, no power. In this respect, the rapporteur gave a good account. We were also reminded of this at the Scan-REF conference at Lillestrøm – about the renewable energy effort – where several politicians should have been present and heard the analyst from England, who pointed to the great efforts that one has had over there in terms of renewable energy, but in this context they forgot to include network policy. As a result, almost all five years were delayed before you got the power online. The same thing has been the danger of happening here. Web policy has not been anything that has taken on big business and government to the extent that it should. In general, only a political debate in the media has taken place on this issue when one has protested on power lines that Statnett has wanted to build around the country and which have also been very necessary power lines. The Energy and Environment Committee, through a network industry seminar, noted that the incentive system has not been good. In the case of maintenance, the system requires a thinner network to the unresponsive by upgrading the network as much as possible the day before it crashes. The challenge is that someone doesn't know what day it can happen. One also has an incentive system that does not give enough signal to trigger new pathways in order to bring about more renewable energy. In Hordaland, the BKK-Net sees enormous potential by being able to allocate costs and not least revenues differently, which will allow them to put in place at least 1 TWh new renewable smallpower – typically 3.5 TWh – if all get yes. What's the point here is that this small force is essentially profitable, without support. With a power price of 40 øre, it's a value creation of over 400 million. Mr President, one of us is missing out on the failure of the policy. In Hordaland, then, one misses over DKK 1.4 billion in value creation this year, if one calculates 3.5 TWh, because the policy fails because the network companies do not have the necessary incentives. I do not think there is any sense of a great rhetoric in this matter. I will give enormous tribute to the government parties, who in this matter have given their government a work order. The work order, which you have requested in all the other matters that we have dealt with, and in the next two matters that we are going to deal with, has come here. It's the first time, as far as I can remember, that the red-green parties have manned themselves to do that, and I think it's respectful of that. Then I also hope that the Government will provide a round of this in the Energy Communication, which in fact not only becomes a mention of the theme, but that one comes up with concrete proposals for changes as it is the Energy Act a treater, and not a message. Once again, I will give tribute to the rapporteurs and to the red-greens, who will ensure that there is an overall committee behind the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1596	I just have to say that from the Right delivered this proposal and to this day, the expectations have also been considerably turned up. There is every reason to give the case rapporteur credit for his handling of this very important matter as such. I therefore believe that this way of dealing with opposition proposals can be an example of follow-up, without anyone having to misunderstand the intent behind what I am saying now, because today's network policy has its history back to the review of the Energy Act in 1990. There's been a lot of water in the ocean and through the web since that time. Today we are in a completely different situation and have a completely different challenge. I believe that the massive feedback from the online industry has contributed to the fact that today we have this request decision unanimously in place, an investigation work that I believe is a great enough job for the department to take on. I hope that the department actually takes this into account, and that it is done as a unanimous increase today asks, because there is a strong need for a review. How will we be able to develop the network in Norway as we develop new energy, including new renewable energy? This has several decades of perspective. So when I look at, for example, one of the municipalities in my constituency, Beiarn, which has a potential of 600 GWh of new renewable energy, there is no one there who feels obliged or economically able to take care of this extremely valuable resource, because today we do not have a system that takes into account the development of the network as the deployment progresses. We need to review the allocation of costs. We need new incentives to stimulate development and development, and we need to have clearer responsibilities in place. If the resource and customer base is in different parts of the country, this may be the case even more in the future. It is just to establish, regardless of who should feel responsible, that there have been many political failures in providing the network industry with lucrative framework conditions. We have through the climate agreement, among other things. an ambition and objective to put in place 30 TWh new renewable energy in Norway by 2016. Without a successful web policy, we will never achieve this goal. We've also registered in the consultation process we've had, that if we're going to get a little bit faster, we have to get rid of the NVE's detailed regulation of the industry. It results in a loss of time, a loss of pace, creating more obstacles than what is good, and it has in particular come to the conclusion that there is too much dialogue between the regulatory authorities and those responsible for the 140 network companies we have around the country. I think there is every reason to ask questions about whether we should have today's online structure when we see 20–30–40 years in the future. We have 140 different operators. Nearly half of them have less than 5000 consumer customers, while on the other hand there are only five network companies that have more than 100000 consumer customers. Who is it that has the financial backbone to bear the burdens that are going on in this area? Such questions are all reason to ask. Therefore, investment incentive schemes need to be strengthened and transmission system companies must not lose on the connection of good renewable projects. Today's policy needs to be stimulated in a completely different way than before, and I am very pleased that there is a unanimous increase behind this approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1615	Finally, we have a case where the Government meets the opposition and adopts good policies, even if it is not proposed by itself. It is a fact that we need a broader analysis of the effects of network development since the introduction of the Energy Act in 1990. The climate agreement has also set a new standard for Norwegian energy policy, with major demands for changing the framework conditions for network activities. In the future, we will significantly increase the production of renewable energy, while at the same time reducing the use of fossil fuels and using energy more efficiently. Oil and gas activities will require more energy in the future as more installations will need to be electrified with electricity from land. The new energy policy agenda requires a new network policy. When the Government now agrees to review the network policy in the context of the evaluation of the Energy Act, the Christian People's Party expects a sufficient amount of action to be taken to meet the challenges of the future. A very important overarching area is predictability – predictability of investments, knowledge of what they can expect. Investment incentives need to be strengthened. Network companies must not lose on the connection of good renewable projects or the development of district heating. We have to be able to get a clean-up of old networks where this makes sense. Concession treatment should be simplified and streamlined, and the cost-sharing of deployment of networks in regions with high renewable energy levels should be reviewed in order to facilitate network costs for consumers locally. The Christian People's Party has high expectations for the evaluation of the Energy Act at this point, but also at a point that has previously been agreed in this Chamber to be included in the Energy Act. We look forward to getting this for treatment in good time before the session is over, so that we can get a good treatment on such a big and important case.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1628	The Committee has been committed to identifying this as an important matter. We have had a constructive process in which we have highlighted the issues and received input from different actors, companies in different parts of the country, of different sizes. It is positive that the Committee has agreed on a common conclusion, a clear recommendation to the Government to come back quickly on a matter of network policy. Here are major challenges for both maintenance and development. It seems obvious that the incentive structure is not sufficiently adapted to the needs, and there are many examples that it is not profitable to make investments at the time that would be most favourable for the purpose of the network. Adjustments are also needed to ensure network deployment that can serve the development of renewable energy production that we have had and will have in the coming years. It is very important that we do not get a new boiler in the way of renewable energy production through a network policy and a network structure that is not adapted to the needs. Here the distribution of costs is a central keyword. The left is very concerned that we should have pressure to get the framework conditions for a large-scale effort on marine energy production. Network connectivity and network deployment will also be a central element of the strategy to be presented to the Stortinget. I'm busy keeping the pressure on that element of the bet. There will be increased attention in marine energy production to our hydropower resources and the possibility of building up more power related to them. It will also address network development challenges, but it is important because an interaction between marine energy production and our hydropower resources can increase the value of both. The transmission of power lines is often controversial. Although the common feature in the future will be high voltage lines, the Left considers that there is a need for a regulatory framework to open up the way for more use of earth and sea cables on some vulnerable routes. Former oil and energy minister Haga promised that new guidelines would be in place which made it clear that such alternatives could be carried out on a number of routes. I have received another answer from today's energy minister, who believes that there are already signs of such an increased opening for earth and sea cables. I am very concerned that one in the wider web policy also has an adjustment in this area which means that one is not locked in the old regulations and in the old formulations that Stortinget had almost ten years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1643	I think there have been many good comments on this matter. I can well start by referring to Ketil Solvik-Olsen, who was concerned that this was an area that was often forgotten. That's essentially what's also my thinking about this. When I have said a lot about this in various posts I have held in the last few months, it has just been the entrance: what goes on standby, what goes on leading was, and what goes on making the slightly solid and long-term investments, disappears in the debate. And then I could add that in addition to that there's going to be discussion when any one is going to stretch new lines, the discussion and the focus become big when the power outage is there. We've seen that in some cases, and it just underlines the importance of this area. I think it's good that there's a total mass – as I see it – that wants to raise the focus on networks and online policies. I'm going to make my point that we can also use time both to get new legislation in place during this period, and to discuss these issues more generally. I hear issues that are explicitly addressed in the debate here now, and I see that they are also consistent with the questions that I am now sitting and assessing in relation to the content of the energy law evaluation. So it's quite obvious that much of this is going to come back to. Let me just briefly make some comments about this. A stable, secure and efficient power system is a prerequisite for societal development. The current transmission network may, when it comes to the problem, be the most important infrastructure we have around it. The basic idea of my work as Minister of Oil and Energy is – and will always be – that good security of supply to all electricity customers in the home and business is a priority task. That means I'm concerned about what's going on to make sure of it. I have initiated a dialogue with the network companies on preparedness and the network companies' framework conditions, which is addressed in the discussion here now. This matter deserves attention that is proportionate to the importance of it also in the political change of words. I mentioned another matter. Last night, Energy Norway was gathered through the Forum called the Energy Council. Yesterday’s theme was the internationalisation of Norwegian energy competence and energy efficiency improvement. The last thing we've been through. Discussions on these themes underlined the importance of a good network policy. It is important for me to have a good dialogue with the energy industry, not least because we are facing so great challenges in this area in the future. I am therefore going to propose concrete action in the announced proposal to the Stortingen on changes in energy policy to spring. I just want to briefly sketch some of the overall issues around it: Firstly, the grid is reaching its technical life span. Therefore, the network companies are facing large investments for maintenance and upgrade. It is also a fact that the equipment partly goes too full capacity, and that of course also means that the wear will be followed. Secondly, we are likely to face noticeable changes in climate and weather conditions. There may be greater loads on the grid, because there will be more storm, there will be wetter and milder weather conditions. We know that icing, i.e. about zero degrees, is probably as tough for the net as for example. extreme cold. Thirdly, we are turning our policy towards more renewable energy sources. It faces major challenges. There have also been comments in the debate here today. There will be more input into the network and the geographical spread will increase. The need to solve the problem of bottlenecks in distribution thereby becomes even greater. Fourthly, I would also like to point out the challenge of access to relevant competences. In the Norwegian hydropower industry, the average age of employees increases by almost one year per year. years that go by. It tells us that we have not succeeded enough in recruiting new talents into an industry that is so important to Norway. But other energy sector businesses also need to renew their skills, and I want to cooperate with industry on these issues. Distribution capacity is of major importance for production. The network company is in this context facing the following challenge: to expand the network into the expectation of new renewable energy, such as: wind, or shall the production be realised before the network is developed? The answer is not either – or – our challenge is to find a good balance. Network policy must also reflect our climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1664	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1667	In Norway, we have between 130 and 140 network companies. In France they have one, and in the United Kingdom they have six companies. The United Kingdom has been mentioned in other debates today. Web rental is one of the areas in which I believe both the Council of State and the undersigned receive many enquiries. We can do something about consumption like consumers, but the rent is only there, and many experience it that is not quite fair. It has been claimed that by improving the efficiency and structural change of the network companies, network rentals may fall below 20 øre per. kilowatt-hour. Is there a desire that the Council of State is able to achieve a lower level of network rental through an improvement in efficiency and structural change?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1676	Low network rental is a goal. The network lease shall not be higher than that which is sound and appropriate in relation to the expected costs of investment in the network and the maintenance costs inherent in the day-to-day operation. Then we have a comprehensive system where the NVE goes in and sees what's around it. But it should not be possible to look beyond what is the real cost of returns. So I don't think in any way that we're done and have a system today that's stuck in stone and that has to be just like that for all the future. But at the same time, I would say that the Norwegian network system with a shared responsibility between the producer and the network is a model for the rest of Europe. The Norwegian and Nordic systems are being looked at by other countries, and regardless of changes or needs, I believe that what we have achieved through the Norwegian and Nordic models is what we are going to build on. But there is definitely always a need to look for better solutions within that regime.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1684	An important part of the operation of the network companies is now dealt with by a staffing regulation that NVE has consulted. A whole industry and a lot of trade unionists have protested about this because they think there's going to be an unnecessary recruitment that's ruining the economy, and that you don't need so many people. One takes away much of the flexibility that companies have, and thus imposes high additional costs on network users. They point out that the most important thing here is that the authorities make clear demands and provide flexibility for the different companies as to how to meet the requirements. Would the Council of State comment on this and would it like to ensure that this, which is such a controversial political issue, comes to the Stortinget if he actually plans to implement the regulation change?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1691	I suspect that the representative of Solvik-Olsen is aware that what I am going to answer to this. As it was correctly stated, this is a matter that is out for consultation. I find the same thing as the representative of Solvik-Olsen that the involvement in the matter is great. It also means that the recordings that are made must then be processed — they must be treated seriously and given a serious assessment. This is a matter that I have to deal with, of course, and I intend to do so. Then we'll look at the content and the further process after my assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1696	The part of the network policy that has been the most public debate in recent years is related to the transmission of the air voltage in controversial areas. I am aware that the Council of State has had and will have to visit delegations related to this topic. There has also been an interpellation debate on this in Stortinget. One of the clarifications that then came was that the government council Haga said she would present new guidelines for the Storting that allow for a greater degree of use of sea cable and earth cable as an alternative to air voltage. It was also given assurance that no decision would be taken on any of the controversial projects until these new guidelines had been submitted and submitted to the Stortinget. Can the new Council of State in this area confirm that there is a government policy, that there will be a case with new guidelines, and that it will be submitted to the Stortinget before decisions are taken in these controversial cases?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1703	It is a work that has been going on around this, which has fanned quite wide about the different consequences of network transmission, and which deals with everything from what the representative Kvassheim addresses to masking, the design of line networks, etc. Some of this has also now been implemented in the day-to-day work related to network policy. Fortunately, we now see a significant increase in the focus on the aesthetics of the line running. I see this as a continuous process, where we're trying to improve this. So I'm going to think a little bit more about how we take the ending. With regard to the specific considerations, I think they are sometimes quite complicated. I think I got a good example of it during my last trip in Sogn and Fjordane, where you have areas that are quite strongly affected in relation to the big line we're talking about in Middle Norway and taking power from the south. Now I see that my time is up, so then I get to get back to this more strongly in response to the next line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1712	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 914]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1730	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1737	Over the last 100 years, hydropower has been a major factor in Norwegian wealth development. From the hydropower we have created industrial workplaces, and energy has given power to the thousands of homes, thus increasing living standards. The use of energy in transport, for heating and for electrical appliances is very important, not to say decisive for the functioning of today's society. It is impossible to see our country lead today without stable access to energy. Unlike many other countries, most of this energy is extracted from renewable energy sources, and especially from hydropower. This gives us valuable power generation at a time when we know that greenhouse gas emissions need to be reduced if we are to avoid dramatic changes in climate and biodiversity on our planet. In the setting, the Committee expresses just the value of our renewable hydropower resources, while at the same time referring to the valuable watercourse nature we have in our country, and the responsibility we have to manage it in a good way. Many of our major watercourses are already developed, but at the same time there is a great untapped potential in the upgrading of existing power plants and not least in the construction of small power plants and mini- and micro-power plants. Some of this potential is now being exploited as a result of the expansion of several smaller rivers with smaller power plants. Since 2005, new production from this last group has been around 1 TWh, however, was granted permission to 0,8 TWh in 2007, and it has been notified and applied for an additional 5 TWh. This is joyous, not least considering the importance of this energy production for our country, and what it means for the environment in the long term. Upgrading and development projects in existing power plants also represent a significant potential in the years to come. There have clearly been limited challenges to the management capacity of Norway’s watercourse and energy directorate – NVE – as a result of the increasing momentum of new energy projects. This has been substantially strengthened in recent years. The representatives of Storting Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Tord Lien and Kåre Fostervold, in the proposal we are now handling, are looking forward to a holistic plan for hydropower deployment. I assume that the second party will do the utmost for the minority's views and any suggestions in the articles that come later in the debate. The majority indicates that the Government has a better framework for the production of new hydropower. Not least, it increases the NVE's capacity for case management, leading to more and more projects being realised. New 35 million are added to the 2009 state budget. kr for case management, and overall, the NVE's handling capacity will be double since 2005. In the view of the majority, new projects are now primarily needed to generate new renewable energy, and not more plans. And it must be allowed to say that representatives from the Progress Party in the last two years have made proposals in this house on plans for almost all of the measures you can think about in the energy sector. Should the party come to grips with this way of thinking, the ministry would have been largely employed as a flat-rate department and not as the initiator of important policies for new renewable energy production. It would be easier to relate to concrete proposals from the party. On the other hand, I would nevertheless like to commend the fact that the party is raising the debate on hydropower production – not only because of the historical significance of this production for our country, but because it may look like some people sometimes forget how important power generation is, and because the value of pure power production is further strengthened by the climate crisis as a backstop. All the production of energy leads to interference in nature. As politicians, it is our job to help us find the right balance between the value of natural resources while safeguarding the environment through the production of renewable energy. Parts of Norwegian nature protection movements do not appear to have come to light that the production of renewable energy leads to natural interference. At the same time, one criticises the powers of government for not quickly enough to allow for increased renewable energy production in order to save the environment, is one and demonstrates against almost all forms of new renewable production. This is not related. We also sometimes have to make a choice between environmental protection and nature protection. Along this line of conflict, the Norwegian debate is not yet mature. But perhaps we must dare to re-examine the balance between nature protection and environmental protection in the context of the climate challenges we face, because it will also, in the utmost sense, affect nature if we do not manage to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the atmosphere.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1763	No one can question the meaning of Norwegian hydropower. The development of hydropower resources has given us an energy supply that is largely based on emission-free renewable energy. It will only be more valuable in the coming years, with ever-increasing demand for CO2 free power. At the same time, public ownership of hydropower has caused power generation to be directly transformed into well-being around Norwegian municipalities. The treatment of the fall-back case ensured that the hydropower remains in the hands of the people, and in my opinion it is one of the most important operations this government has done. The proposers point out how the high proportion of hydropower makes us vulnerable to dry years. Of course, that's absolutely right. At the same time, hydropower gives us great flexibility, because it can be regulated. In the next few years, we have ambitions to put in place large amounts of new renewable energy. We have discussed that in the knowledge and the broad earlier in this Chamber today. In the future, there are great opportunities in hydropower generation in combination with other ways of producing power that cannot be regulated. We have e.g. several major wind projects in progress, and a target of 3 TWh wind by 2010, which is all reason to believe that we will achieve. There is no doubt that hydropower could increase its value by acting as a battery in combination with the new renewable power that we are going to have in place. If we get to the bet on sea wind that we're now working on, this gives us very exciting perspectives. So it's actually important that we achieve a proper balance between the use and protection of natural resources. Some major watercourses must also be taken care of for the afterlife and those coming after us. We have a duty to do that. There is a significant potential for upgrading and expanding existing hydropower plants, and there is also some potential for expansion in non-protected watercourses. New hydropower projects – both small and medium-sized, new power plants over 10 MW and upgrading and extension of existing power plants – are continuously being developed in total 2.4 TWh since 2005, with permits for a further 1.2 TWh. New technology that allows the hydropower to be exploited several times is also very promising, and I have noticed that the Council of State has taken an interest in these possibilities. It has been important for red-green batches to ensure NVE’s capacity in concession treatment. There's been a plug in the system for a long time. It's unacceptable with a concessional treatment period that extends over several years when we're going to put in place the large amounts of new renewable energy that we want. In 2009, there will be another 35 million. kr to NVE’s capacity in concession treatment. It is important, and that means that we will have doubled the NVE's capacity for processing since 2005. Then we'll have an important bottleneck for the development of new renewable energy. I think everyone agrees that good concession treatment is important in order to ensure sound resource use and that deployment takes place in an environmentally good way. We must not allow the processing capacity to make us begin to compromise with it. Then it's important, cf. the previous debate on the network, that we have the online situation when talking about the development of new energy, including new hydropower, and there is no doubt that we have major challenges. I believe it is very reasonable that the NVE is now setting up its concession treatment so that production projects and network development are assessed at the same time. That's very good. But as it appeared in the previous debate, and we all agree, the online situation is per. Today, a barrier to new renewable energy, including small-scale hydropower, and I am pleased that the Government will now come back to the Stortinget with a comprehensive review of the network policy in the context of the evaluation of the Energy Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1789	First, I would like to thank the representative, Mr Sande, who acknowledges that the Progress Party and, to the extent that the opposition have also promoted a number of comprehensive proposals in all the policy areas within the sphere of responsibility of the Ministry of Energy. It's worth taking with you for all the time you've been told by the Government that a mere complaint, and not providing alternative policies. So Erling Sande has experienced that we're doing it. That's good. When the Progress Party promotes so many proposals – almost 30 representative proposals in the current period – it is not because we like bureaucracy and believe that having a message is an end in itself. That's because we want to clarify the framework conditions, so that the energy industry comes down from the fence and starts investing, instead of sitting on the fence looking at the red-green energy wrench. So we're not talking about a red-green government that's eager to be an ‘employer',' as the representative Sande said, but we're observing a government that spends a lot of time arguing, as in Political Quarter this morning. I would like to ask the Council of State to pass on a thank you to its people in the Department for very good and comprehensive answers to the questions that the Committee had on the potential for hydropower. It was full answers that showed that there is a potential for hydropower, even if you protect some areas. As an energy nation, Norway started with hydropower, which was built out of industry. We had a fall-back debate this summer, where there was a lack of a complete industrial perspective, hydropower perspective or energy perspective. It was only about ownership. The hydropower was the start for us as an energy nation. Then we've gone to oil and gas. We've gone to renewable energy. But in this respect, we must not forget the hydropower, which is being omitted almost all of the goals that one adopts on the Stortinget. One has objectives for wind power, for bioenergy and district heating, but one has no goal for hydropower. That's what I think is sad, because the industry is showing the ability and willingness to raise new, significant projects constantly away – upgrading and upgrading existing hydropower plants, new expansions, small power plants. They demonstrate the ability to adapt projects to modern environmental requirements and to outdoor interests. It's a completely different hydropower industry we're talking about today, than what one did during the Alta expansion. But unfortunately, it is the premise of the Alta development that remains firm when one discusses this. The industry is being treated in a vote. It also confirms NIVA's project leader, Haakon Thaulow, in Technische Ukeblad nr. 40 from this year, where he says that hydropower is being voiced in the process of generating renewable energy. He also says, ‘However, in many cases intervention and protection interests may be combined.’ It says someone who works on this, and has the environmental interests at hand. He says that with today's technology it's quite possible to get things done. A down-to-earth message may provide the necessary clarifications. It can address the issues of debate and bring the industry off the fence by ensuring that the instrument, objectives and system of government are coordinated. No one disagrees that the NVE has been strengthened with procedural capacity, as this government has done. But no one here has been against it either. It shows that this government’s excellence — by strengthening the NVE — is not a political point as such, for everyone has agreed, but that has not been enough. That's the problem. So it doesn't take over the government. It is a supplier industry in Norway that can flourish further in a domestic market and also join SN Power and others out in the world. A big message can also try to distinguish between the large and small projects, so that a more easily realizes the large and the small by providing them with different concession requirements, which make the paper mill slightly different for the smaller projects. I became very optimistic this summer when I could read in the VG that peaks in the Workers' Party announced a power struggle and would turn to Jens Stoltenberg's hydropower-no. They called for more expansion, also in new watercourses. I was also impressed when I saw that the representative Erling Sande gave full support to the forces enthusiasts in the Workers' Party and said that we must ‘have a discussion about more hydropower’. Then we feel that someone does not want a big message about it. One just has to discuss it. The need for such a message is obvious when one sees that the representative Tore Nordtun travels to Jørpeland and believes that he has good news, while the evening of 19 May 2008 can tell that he was almost plucked out because it was not what the industry needed. At that time, there is a need for a big message to clarify the needs of the industry and the policy to deliver. I am referring to the proposal on which the Progress Party is advocating.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1825	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1828	It is a little disappointing that the majority today reject the proposal promoted by the Progress Party. In view of the financial crisis we are at the beginning, there should perhaps be better business cycles to reconsider some of the positions. There is a greater need to highlight more of the areas affected by the proposals and to address in its proposal, not least the potential we have within hydropower. It is the lowest hanging fruits that can provide in the cheapest way, the best and fastest results in delivering future new renewable energy. There is a need for a broad, comprehensive and thorough reporting of future investments in hydropower in Norway. Not least, there is a need to be informed by a big message of what potential we have, both in terms of untapped potential, and in terms of upgrading and expansion, at least so that we are aware of what we say no to in a situation where the consumption of energy in Norway is growing quite dramatically, which has been referred to in another debate in the past. When you say no to the lowest hanging fruits we have in front of us, what kind of alternative are we going to have to apply? I had thought that when it has repeatedly been referred to a coming energy message, we would get a case that affected these matters. We have now learned that the energy message never comes. That is why it is up to the Right to support the proposals of the Progress Party. That is not what the rapporteur says, that if it had been the case in Stortinget that all the proposals of the Progress Party – and for that matter also all Right – had been adopted, the Ministry of Oil and Energy would have been converted into a planning department. Mostly nothing has been adopted by our proposals, but it has not meant that there are widespread deliveries of policies from the same department. Rather the opposite. That's why there's a need to get there now, if it's not already too late: what kind of ambitions is this government has in this area? In many ways, this is illustrated – perhaps as a new red-green sport – by the fact that the policy is promoted in one arena, and it is through the use of various press conferences. It does not support the opposition in any case, which wants to put in place an active policy that can provide references to the actors who will be responsible for the future development of hydropower in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1839	In a famous Norwegian song trophy, it says: ‘We live in a place where no one would think anyone could bow.’ We have settlements around the country where we should not think that we could live, but the hydropower has made it impossible. We have large water resources in the country. We've used them. We've used them in a sensible way, we've managed our resources well, and we're going to do that in the future. We're going to have hydropower expansion in a gentle way in relation to environmental interventions. We also need to invest in upgrading and expanding existing hydropower plants. There's no doubt about it. We have an overall goal in terms of the climate challenges we are facing: that the temperature should not rise by more than 2 degrees. If we are to achieve this goal, yes, many actions in place that are directly directed towards this goal need to be achieved. Then it must be that those who want to invest in renewable hydropower meet the red runner and not the nail mat in relation to the public. This applies, for example: access to the network, which we have discussed earlier today, in the case of concession treatment in NVE, for which there is an improvement in the appeal time of any appeal to the Ministry of Oil and Energy, and in the case of the concession request – how detailed this should be. Those we are talking about in the context of micro, mini and small power plants are entrepreneurs. It is often I meet – whether in Valdres, Telemark or Østfold – a farmer who says: I make these investments because I want to invest for the future, for the next generation. If we are to be able to have with such people – as we must – in the climate dungeon, yes, they must meet the red runner from the public side. We have as a land a good resource, and we're going to use it in a sensible and efficient way. From the Christian People's Party, we believe that it is a good thing that we should also be able to export out of the country in order to phase out coal power or other polluting power and thus be involved in the great international climate virtue in which we all have to participate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1857	The left does not see the need for a separate monitoring report on hydropower policy at this stage. Although a person can discuss the lack of support and the lack of a system and debate the need for a faster procedure, the external framework, the spatial clarifications, have been made in this area. The basis laid down is suitable for pursuing policies in the field of hydropower deployment. The protective plan has established which watercourses are to be protected and in which it is possible to extend them. The Bondevik II Government has provided a protective plan at the latest at the end of its term of operation to which 50 new watercourses were given protection status. But even if a lot is built out, and although many watercourses are to be protected, there is still a significant potential for increased use of our hydropower. Genuine expansion can create new projects. Upgrading and extensions of existing hydropower projects also have a significant potential. I refer to what has been said earlier today about the development of micro, mini and small power, where projects of 7.5 TWh have been notified and applied for, and that upgrading and extension of existing projects can provide 2.5 TWh. Small-scale projects are included. In sum, this provides a potential that is significantly greater than what you see on land, for example. wind power during the same period. Here, then, there are opportunities for a large increase in energy production, while at the same time laying the foundations for the protection policy that has been widely agreed in the Grand Duchy. Attention has been paid to the treatment resources of the NVE. That's where the government has added. There will be further new posts in 2009. What's important here is that one in areas where there's a lot of anchor, also enables the appeal authority to get away from this to the same extent that one makes the NVE able to take away projects. For example, this quickly becomes a problem related to wind power, how close all projects are to anchor. One also sees in other areas that this is a problem. Our hydropower is a unique resource of very great value. Everything suggests that this value and significance will increase in the coming years. Pure force will become more important in a situation where there will be a shortage of exactly that and the need to phase out polluting energy production. The second factor that can help make our hydropower even more valuable is an interaction with marine energy production, where one can have an increased impact on the hydropower side. This interaction may increase the value of this important resource. In conclusion, I would like to take a look at the debate that has recently been taking place around the hydropower policy. For it was created by some who were also associated with the government parties that they were ready for a new round in terms of looking prejudicefully at watercourses that were protected, and opened up for their expansion. Among other things, Ola Borten Moe has secured a lot of good newspaper headlines with that kind of thinking. I see what is now an attitude of the Committee, as a clear message that our hydropower policy in Norway is based on the clarification made through the protection plans and that it is not relevant to a counter-measure in relation to those decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1870	Although I think the head of the committee so much makes sense in his post, I think I'll keep my own here, not least because I think that the issues related to hydropower are important, and both I and the Government are concerned that we should get the new renewable and environmentally friendly energy ahead. In the form of proposals here, and after that also supported by the debate, it is given the impression that there is a question of whether or not one is up here for or against hydropower and that there is a communication that is now missing. It is interesting, however, that a minority in the United Kingdom, who disagrees with a majority, believes that the majority with whom it disagrees, should present a message in favour of the minority who disagree with the policy of those who are to deliver the message. But that is now another matter. What is the framework for the functioning of Government in this area in relation to small power, which has now been taken up by many, is that in the Soria Moria Declaration, we clearly say that we should have more small power and better use of existing hydropower. It's inside that I, among other things, work with concreteisation in relation to legislation, e.g. against the revision of existing agreements on certain works. For me, hydropower has been an important basis for well-being and value creation for over 100 years, and will also be the key source of energy in the future in relation to shore-based power supply in Norway. We see that the value of hydropower can increase in the future, because in a sense it's internal fibrillation relative to force because it's so easily adjustable. Pumped storage is a potential that we've just seen the beginning of, so it's going to be more attractive than it already is. There is a high level of activity in the hydropower sector, so I don't remember in the picture outlined in the representative proposal. And I think the representative Sande had a good shot here in terms of purely physical traveling around the country and looking at everything that's happening now. There is no fictitious world one who meets, there is a real situation, where concrete projects are realized, whether there are small-scale projects on farms around the country or there are upgrading and development projects for the really big projects and hydropower plants we have in this country. Then the representatives from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left show in the setting of what was granted by permits for hydroelectric projects under the Bondevik II government, and I approve of what was done in that period. I also want to add a comment in relation to what is happening now. So far in this period, we've given concession to 146 projects. It's in the number more than what was given during the last government period, where it was granted concession to 126. But the important thing for me is that one here looks over a longer period that there is activity and interest in hydropower projects, and it's not just unrealistic projects that we're talking about here, it's concrete projects that are being implemented. The activity in this area is reflected in NVE statistics. About 7,5 TWh with hydropower projects have either been requested or notified to the NVE, in 2007, the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the NVE have given permission to expand 1.2 TWh with new production, so production corresponding to 2.4 TWh has been started since 2005. Together, we see that new hydropower projects contribute to new renewable energy production in Norway. That's good, and we're going to keep going. So I'll just finally add a few comments to what's done within the NVE. I am pleased that so many people in Stortinget emphasise the work that we have done lately in relation to the NVE. I believe it has been absolutely necessary to add much more money to the NVE than has been the case in the past. The queue has been too long. It's still too long, and I expect the resources NVE now get to help it get shorter. It is also true, as the representative of Kvassheim said, that it must have the intended effect, for example. My department is being strengthened, and we are doing that now. I mentioned in one of my first posts today that we are about to introduce the library, just to be able to meet as well, I get to say, any appeals. But the reality is that, especially for wind power projects, we almost do not need to use the word ‘if any’ either.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1886	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1889	The Council of State installs evidence that there is a lack of self-confidence, self-satisfaction is a good substitute. I have previously referred, and will do it again, Trond Ryslett, leader of the Small Forces Association, who says that here hydropower and energy are realized in Norway despite and not because of the Government's energy policy. So the Council of State is trying to make a cheap point that there's a minority in the Chamber who want a global report on hydropower policy. This proposal came because we see that also in the red-green parties there are a large number of big business representatives who in the media have gone out and said that we need to have a debate, we need to have new guidelines, we have to bet more than what the government's policy has put up. And then it's quite natural that someone would like to get a big message, so that you get a clarification. Is it the Ministry of the Environment's sauna no, as Secretary of State Heidi Sørensen wrote in the media this summer, that applies, or is that the views of all those who want to accept? Then a big message is natural to take up, and the question is, Which of these pages is the Council of State listening to? Are the members of the government saying no, or are they the representatives of big business who say yes?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1896	My thinking about hydropower development is about the importance of being able to balance different considerations. It is a guiding principle for policy in general, and I mean it absolutely in relation to hydropower. It is very good when we are able to find hydropower projects that can be realised without major conflicts with particular environmental interests. At the same time, there will be hydropower projects which cannot be implemented precisely for the same reasons. So there's nothing either-- or, there's nothing yes or no in relation to neither smaller nor larger hydropower projects. Here one has to make an assessment in individual cases, and for me it is very good when we can conclude that hydroelectric power projects can be realised within a framework where environmental considerations are not least taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1905	The development of tissues has been one of the major hydropower issues in recent years. There the Government has clarified its position in the Soria Moria Declaration. It has been said that one should present a case of protection to the Stortinget, and it has been said in the past that it would come in 2008. Can the Council of State tell us what is the progress in the work on the Wefsna case? And can he confirm that in this area, the Soria Moria vows are firm, that we get a case to the Stortinget that ensures the protection interests associated with the Weefsna River?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1912	I can give an answer that I think will reassure the representative Kvassheim. There is no reassessment of Soria Moria text in that the matter has not been presented to Stortinget. But there are a lot of jobs to do in relation to the practical way of making a regime for this that is good, durable and long-term. So the matter comes to Stortinget. It's not very long before that happens. It is going to happen in a very good time for the Storting to deal with the matter during the spring. If it comes before or after New Year's, I will not be completely bastant at this time, but in any case we are not talking about a long time before that matter is presented to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1919	To try to be a little bit more precise in the question, so I get an answer: everyone agrees that one should balance environmental considerations, power considerations and things like that. This isn't about anarchy on one side and completely bastant no to all projects on the other side. However, the Ministry of the Environment, by Secretary of State Heidi Sørensen, had a comprehensive readership round in the summer in response to the performances of the Workers' Party plus the representatives of the Centre's representatives Erling Sande and Ola Borten Moe, who were told not to reconsider the policy of hydropower, the time for large expansions is definitely over, one must be restrictive. So on the other hand, there are those who think you have to look at this with new eyes, in line with what the Progress Party says. And then the point is, what is the signal the industry should listen to? Are those who come from government members, or are those who come from government representatives? You cannot listen to both, because then you have no coherent policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1926	I think I gave a good answer instead that was worth listening to. I would like to elaborate on that, and ask that this answer too be listened to. Well, this isn't the way one of them can give a general answer. What I mean about this, and which is in line with what I said instead, is that good projects like it is wanting to realize out there, will get serious and proper treatment. And if it turns out that it is possible to implement hydropower projects with sufficient environmental impact, they will be implemented. By Friday at the latest, I had the pleasure of presenting Tyin to the King in the Council of State, and it went well. We have now given the concession and the opportunity to expand 74 GWh related to the Tyin River. It is very good because it is a project that can be realised, also within environmentally sound frameworks. And that's the kind of concessions I want more of.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1935	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1938	It was a polemic discussion to begin with in today's debate related to all the opposition's proposals. Now it turns out through the debate that it is most timely for the opposition to put forward proposals, focus on matters and call for a position from the Government, as once again the Government does not deliver what the Storting wants and needs. Unfortunately, we have a government that, especially in the field of renewable energy, completely lacks ambition. We also see, as this debate has shown, that when the Small Forces Association, which should be one of the Senter Party's closest allies, goes to the degrees and criticises the Government, it is precisely because today's policy is unable to exploit the potential that lies there for renewable energy, and especially for hydropower. The issue really concerns what potential exists, so that measures can be put in place to exploit that potential. That's what the Right believes is a good idea. We need framework conditions, we need upgrading, we need expansion of existing hydropower installations, and we need a concessional treatment that is considerably more flexible than today. And we need a new small force, not least. It is particularly disappointing, from a district point of view, that we are unable to exploit the small-power potential that obviously exists better. Let me also say that the protective plan is fixed, also for the Right. Nevertheless, there is a great potential for gentle new development and upgrading. Let me finish by using my own county as an example, which is really nothing but a small powerhouse: South Africa unfortunately, like the rest of the country, experiences a long trial period in NVE. I am pleased that the Council of State has taken action in relation to the NVE, but it is legally late, and it has not been given that this is strong enough to reduce the processing time significantly. We see within taxation – and let me mention the rent tax in particular – that we have a tax that makes it profitable for builders to expand less power plants than what was actually possible within the watercourse, which would also have a minimal impact on the environment. Let me also mention that we find both local authorities, county councils, county councils and NVE in the context of concession proceedings and throughout the application process. For the Right, it is a matter of course that you cut out the county council, and that the county council is turned into a mere law enforcement. It stands and falls on political will. For the time being, we are unfortunately falling on ‘will not’. But – again – a new government will probably look at this with completely different eyes, and we need an overall commitment to exploit the potential that exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1953	Much is happening within the framework of hydropower policy, and there are not a few applications for expansion on the table of the NVE. Very familiar are several hundred applications — up to 350. This should be dealt with in a case, and it should be done in a large way. That's why we're strengthening it. Much can also be done with already developed hydropower – renewal, refurbishment, etc. In other words, as it has been, we have had great potentials, as our entire welfare society is built on this energy in many ways. What made me take the floor was Ketil Solvik-Olsen's contribution, where he referred to me being pointed out at a meeting on Jørpeland. That's never happened! There's a lot of weird you should hear in this room. I have been a follower of the Jørpelands extension from day one, and I have had conversations with the builder on Jørpeland time and time again, namely the Lyse/Stålverket. This expansion has started physically, and I can also tell Ketil Solvik-Olsen which contractors stand by the excavators. He should get better into things before he stands on this pulpit and hangs people out. We disagreed in the beginning when it came to the development of Jørpelands and the fiscal measures to be taken. What did the Government do? Well, it asked about tax policy just to meet some of these developments, just as has been done on Norwegian soil. It was changed. Then began the Jørpelands development. We delivered a good project to produce in this area. When using such strong expressions from this pulpit, there should be some content – a little content – in it. I thought it was right to note that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1964	The representative of Skovholt Gitmark follows up the wretched description that the Progress Party also had in the past with regard to small-scale power expansion, hydropower expansion. You have to do the same thing. If you want to know what's going on, you have to go out there. If you don't believe what's being said by the council, you get a trip out there, and then you get to look at these facilities and feel them. To date, the Government has made sure that 146 projects have been granted concessions. There's more than that given in the four years right in the Bondevik government. One has, therefore, in relation to the level at which the representative Skovholt Gitmark's party and the other parties in the government in the previous period had on the NVE, double the handling capacity. And then one would have to say that's not enough. But it's a lot more fair to commend the government for what you've done, and say that you should do more than try to make it look like there's nothing going on when it comes to the development of small-scale power plants around this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1974	I'm going to admit that I haven't quoted Nordtun's representative being pointed out, but the reaction of Light Energy would have the same effect – and it would probably have been what happened if one was on a football match. Then a used opportunity to pluck him out. For Stavanger Aftenblad, 19 May 2008, an article says: «Deputy representative Tore Nordtun thought he was coming with happy news. But Jørpeland Kraft was disappointed. [[...]] That's not exactly the same thing as piping out, unless he has large gaps between his teeth, but it expresses no great pleasure at all over the policy that the Government was pursuing at that time. So there have been improvements. Many of us are pleased that Jørpeland Kraft has been launched as a project. But my point of referring to that article was that the government gives the impression that this is going so deeply well, while the industry, the industry, feels so many different signals that they often don't dare invest. There have been so many changes in this policy area by the Government that one has created considerable uncertainty. And then a lucky one because the industry comes with so many projects that some of them are in any case implemented. But it's not the government that has decided that the natural resource base exists. It's the government's policy that makes many of them unable to be realized. That's what we're discussing and trying to make a change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e1992	To Solvik-Olsen: He can interpret in many ways what was in Stavanger Aftenblad, but I had hoped that Solvik-Olsen could express some joy after this meeting took place, because we got this excellent project going on. But not even that he managed to rejoice over. It's totally unimaginable. I have to say that a number of other expansions have started, but we cannot start builders with small power plants and mini-power plants when there is no cable to hang the power on. You also have to think completely, and it's possible to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. I think there are significant things to enjoy when it comes to hydropower production in Norway. So is it in the future. There are projects after the project on the bet. But what we do also requires a certain length of time, a certain seriousness.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2001	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 914]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2020	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2029	It's Innst. S. No 66 that we're dealing with right now. It is the result of a proposal from a representative that Stortinget asks the Government in its announced energy plan to present a comprehensive plan for CO2 management in Norway. It's an important thing that's being addressed here. It is the Progress Party that has raised the matter, and what is said shows that they are initially in the majority view. What this issue is about is CO2 management, the main element of the Government's energy policy. It still has to be. One has launched several important projects for the realisation of CO2 capture, transport and storage in Norway. As far as further work is concerned, the Government and the red-green ambitious energy and environmental policy objectives are implemented through economic instruments and new technologies. And then you don't want to go new ways, but keep going the race that you've added up in this area. Nor should we ignore, with the ambitious environmental policy in place, the climate agreement in Stortinget. The climate agreement has binding objectives in a number of areas, including CO2 management. I don't want to make it a bad deal, it's a very good deal because it's so wide. But I note that the Progress Party is not in this agreement. It actually forms the basis for the further handling and deployment of CO2. The agreement on CO2 management, e.g. in Mongstad, is an important step in the further work and efforts to generate technologies that can reduce CO2 emissions. The first phase involves, as the proposers write in the setting-up, the establishment of a test facility for CO2 at Mongstad. The aim here is just to gain knowledge, create a development and find a solution that can reduce both costs and technical and economic risks in a large-scale approach to CO2 management. This work that the Government has now started, and to which a unanimous increase has joined in terms of Mongstad management, is about long-termity, finding the good solutions that I had in the past, and the framework for CO2 capture, – storage, etc. It is quite clear that the investment decisions relating to the CO2 management project on Mongstad and Kårstø will be brought back in this context. This will be presented to the Stortinget for further discussion. I think that's important. The Government of the Council of State states in its letter to the Committee that this is the way to proceed in this very important matter. It says here about our future in CO2 management. That's the project that must succeed. It will mean a quantum leap forward when it comes, and I look forward to the investment decision and the mention of the CO2 management that we will then have presented to the Stortinget. The majority, and thus the Committee's recommendation, are annexed to the minutes of the matter, stating the reasons which the rapporteur has now given.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2089	The proposal of the Progress Party is aimed at having a political debate in Stortinget by having an overall approach to CO2 cleanness, capture, storage, transport and any other use. The aim of our proposal is to increase the success of getting something commercial, so that it succeeds, and so that one has a product one can sell to others, rather than just being able to boast of ‘monthly landings’ to foreign guests. It is important to coordinate the projects that exist at Kårstø and Mongstad, but also to prioritise them and develop them further with current knowledge, which I know is quite different from the knowledge that was held in 2005. The costs have gone up, technology realism is completely different, especially for Kårstø. Kårstø was initially to be realised in 2009. Now, at best, it's going to be a decision in 2009. It shows that times have changed. So now you have a cramped relationship with Mongstad and Kårstø, which you have to do for everything it's worth, while everything else that comes from good input from other actors is ignored, unfortunately. I think Mongstad is an example of how it's been treated. It has been within the Storting through a proposition, has received a proper, serious treatment, there has been a good consultation in the committee, and good decisions have been made. Kårstø, on its side, receives large appropriations for the state budget, but has never been treated as a matter of its own; it hardly gets its own mention of importance in the state budget. It's essentially one side, and enough with that. The many challenges raised by the opposition and, in particular, by the Progress Party are not being addressed to a large extent. We must have framework conditions that embrace broader than these two projects. We have to make sure that we are able to involve several actors, we have to ensure that Norwegian business is more involved, that the Norwegian research environment is deeper within this, and that we get more money back. Then I'm going to have a little problem with the reason for this, because there are a lot of people who care about Kårstø and Mongstad and say that here we have big goals – it's important to hold on. But one does not take into account that in Mongstad, a pilot plant will barely be built before making investment decisions about a full-scale facility. So that doesn't give us the background of experience we need to make such a big decision. Should you not then discuss whether to take a look at the time conditions, so that we realize something that everyone agrees is good, rather than something that has been adopted a long time ago, which makes it very expensive or very bad? In particular, this is important when one of the last weeks of today’s economics could read that costs are shooting in the weather. Kårstø, where one was to have a fully-cleaned plant in 2009, is now out of time – one does not have a pilot plant to refer to in relation to technology, and one sees that the gas power plant is stationary and most likely to remain at rest much of the time. Nor has the EU been notified in relation to state aid legislation, which was thought to be very important for Mongstad, which is to be realised later than Kårstø. So there's something about the time dimension here that's not related. At the same time, it is known that Industrialkraft Møre applied to build gas power plants and was refused because they did not have CO2 cleaning, but they were also told that if they applied for CO2 cleaning today, they will also be refused because it is not socio-economically profitable. So the gas force framework conditions cancel out gas power plants regardless of what you have as a prerequisite. Hammerfest Energi has been denied his application to build gas power plants with cleaning. At Husnes there are plans to build coal-fired power plants, where Sargas wants to clean, but there is no explanation from the authorities about which infrastructure solution you can connect to. When talking about gas power plants for Skagerak Energie, the government has already said that a CO2 tube is currently not relevant for possibly cleaning the gas power and sending the CO2 back again. The Institute of Energy Engineering has many projects in which they try to clean CO2 – bind it up to, among others. olivina – to get a product you can sell in the market, not just deposit the CO2, but they become very little involved in the work done by the Government. EnPro cleans – or stores – salt water into agricultural water, i.e. binds the CO2, but has to leave the country to get it done. The Norwegian supplier industry has little to do with this. There are mostly foreign suppliers that are responsible for technology development and are central to the project in Mongstad. Then there is a small pleasure in the billions of dollars that Norwegian taxpayers will spend on financing competitors for the Norwegian industry. Therefore, it is important that one has an overall approach — not to try to train this, but to increase the chance of success. The many problems I have raised are most real. If we can involve more and see the whole thing in it, we can get better results for the same money that we're now using. That is why I ask that the government parties contribute to the development of an overall industry in terms of CO2 policy. I am referring here to the proposal by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2144	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2147	Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions are increasing — like the rest of the world. At the same time, the rainforests disappear and the sea sat for CO2 – and thus acidified. The environment needs urgent help. Norway’s foremost contribution may and should be in carbon capture and storage. We have to contribute from Norwegian growth to the development of new technology. It is within the framework of new technology that we see an enormous potential both to clean Norwegian and not least international, large emission sources, and to create a new Norwegian environmental industry. This project has enormous environmental potential, while providing a huge industrial potential to Norway. But it only happens if the technology gets so cheap that the rest of the world is willing to use it, and it can also be used to clean coal power.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2157	The case of CO2 management has an exciting history. If it had in its time been opened up to a stake in highly polluting gas power plants, Norway would not have been a driver internationally for CCS, i.e. CO2 management, which is now an important element of our government's energy and climate policy. I also believe that this case is a good example of a no being a yes. No to highly polluting gas power plants agreed to new technologies and to boost new solutions that are environmentally friendly and forward-looking. If, on the other hand, it had been up to the Progress Party, which is also the proposer in this matter we are now debating, we would never have come as far as we are today. I allow myself to mention the following: Before the 2005 elections, all parties were asked if we were in favour of State funding for CO2 cleaning. The party of progress responded as follows: ‘No. FrP wants to use a greater share of Norwegian natural gas for domestic value creation. FrP will work for the creation of gas power stations where this provides the best possible return in terms of energy and economy. FrP is positive in supporting research into energy technologies, and has repeatedly made proposals for an energy and petroleum research fund, without being supported by the Stortinget. Possible actions’ – any action, I just stress it – ‘because of climate policy should be carried out where it provides the most environment for money, not the technology area that is the favourite of politicians. Business must be able to use the international mechanisms in the Kyoto system, so that measures are taken to provide the most environment for money. Greenhouse gas emissions will not be reduced by Norwegian industry having to move out of the country.’ It is of course permissible to change the meaning. The party is cordially welcome to begin to believe that climate change is man-made — and can become dangerous. This is at least the reason why SV believes that a bet on CCS, or CO2 management, is necessary. Why the Advancement Party now suddenly believes that CCS is important, is a mystery to me, but let go. Nevertheless, CO2 management, as I said, is a key element of the Government's energy and climate policy. Our government has launched several important projects to realise the capture, transport and storage of CO2 in Norway. The aim is to promote cost-effective and forward-looking technology concepts for CO2 management and to ensure the wide application of such technologies. Energy efficiency and renewable energy will be important to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In the long term, energy production must be 100 pst. renewable. However, in order to reduce emissions to a large extent before 2050, we also need to capture and store CO2 from large emission sources, such as coal power plants. One important reason for this is that fossil energy sources such as coal, gas and oil will be used on a large scale for decades to come — whether you like it or not. The main reason is that people in the poor parts of the world will make legitimate demands to participate in the standard of living that we in the West take for granted. Their energy consumption is increasing at a heart-breaking pace, and the International Energy Agency has in fact warned that the so-called reference scenario could lead to a temperature increase of six degrees, referred to as Ragnarok in today's business the other day. This should be able to scare anyone to take this more seriously, perhaps also to change their mind. Unfortunately, energy efficiency and renewable energy cannot meet the growing demand for energy in the short term. According to the most optimistic scenarios of the IEA, the TECH Plus scenario, global power generation in 2050 will be about 35 000 TWh. Only 13000 TWh will be produced from renewable energy sources. This leaves a gap between power demand and renewable potential equivalent to 22000 TWh. These are the most optimistic possibilities, as the IEA sees it. IEA assume that the gap will be much larger than what the TECH Plus scenario shows. The capture and storage of CO2 emissions from large-scale fossil-fuel power plants is therefore essential to reduce greenhouse gases without hampering a large proportion of humanity’s legitimate access to energy. In addition, we need a global redistribution of the goods we in our part of the world take for granted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2204	I would like to start by including the proposal promoted by the Christian People's Party and the Left in the vote. CO2 management and landfilling are important if we are to achieve our climate objectives. Energy production based on oil, coal and gas will play an important role in the world’s energy supply for many years. The significance has to be reduced, but we still have to focus on this reality. That is why it is therefore necessary to have a scheme for CO2 management and landfilling. Norway can play an important role here. We have the resources, and we have good assumptions for delivering the solutions. We also have a commitment to that, as a wholesale exporter of fossil energy sources. The government's ambitions in this area are nothing to say. The ability to deliver is worse. Kårstø was to be cleaned by 2009. Now it's unclear whether it's going to be cleaned. It was a promise that no concession would be granted to new gas power plants, without any cleaning from day one. It's broken when it comes to Mongstad. We're in a situation where the landfill solutions are also unexplained. So there are good reasons to ask the Government to present a comprehensive plan on how to invest in CO2 management and landfill in order to achieve climate targets. That is the background to our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2222	The representative of Gunnar Kvassheim has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2225	It is a large area that is now under debate – at the same time, I see that we now have some practical challenges in relation to the timeframe. I would therefore like to begin by saying that I refer to the letter I have sent to the Committee, to the debate we are going to have on Monday in connection with the budgetary procedure, and to the matter I have been working on relating to precisely carbon capture and storage and the Mongstad project, which the Stortinget will have to discuss later. This is going to mean a concreteisation of part of the discussion taken here, which I think is definitely one of the major environmental and climate discussions, because we will not get to grips with the climate issue if we do not succeed in carbon capture and storage. As others have mentioned, the IEA itself has mentioned that one of three main elements needs to be put in place to succeed. Fossil energy will also account for a large share of energy consumption in a half-long perspective, so we have to succeed in that. Norway has a special responsibility for what we've got out of the hydrocarbons, by taking them up. We also have a responsibility to ensure that we get a technology in place to get them back and properly deposited. Therefore, working with this is very, very high on my agenda. I myself was at Mongstad last week and was briefed on the project there. At the same time, when I travel to other countries, I see that if we are to succeed in these projects, there is a need for state involvement. That's what we do in Norway -- trying to combine government work with private engagement. I am sure in my case – after sharing experiences with other countries that work a lot on this – that we have to do it in a combination. What happens mainly in Mongstad, we must succeed. That's my ambition, and it's working after that. Then I look forward to discussing that issue considerably more in the future on the occasions that I mentioned initially.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2236	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2240	Investment decision for full scale installations in Mongstad shall be taken by 2012. So there's some in the debate that gives the impression that this is realized anyway. But I think most of the actors involved in this are expecting in 2012 an assessment of technology, how far you have come with pilot plants, what experience you have and what costs it is. Then the question is, how does the Council of State interpret this with Mongstad? Do you want to review in 2012? And is it then an opportunity to say no, we can't enough, we should spend a little more time on pilot plants to check that it works and see if we're going to modify, like to build another pilot plant, because the most important thing here is to get success, not to be early out with something that doesn't work? Or does he feel that a positive investment decision should be made here in 2012 anyway?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2245	First of all, I think it is better for me and others to sit down a little bit more in terms of dates set than to be lazy about having enough ‘driving’ on the processes. I think it's right that we set ambitious targets, because in the climate issue, we have a bad time. We see that these are complicated issues, complicated questions, where it's not just deciding. That means that in the process of both Step 1 and Step 2 at Mongstad we obviously have to relate to the recordings that are coming, but I think we now have one big task to do. It's that we're doing what's possible to realize these projects as quickly as possible. That's why we've also set some target dates for it, which I think we're all well served to get as close as possible, because the climate issue is so big and serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2252	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. The scheduled time for the morning meeting is late. [[See page 915]] The meeting is now being cancelled, and a new meeting will be held at 5 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2291	I have raised this interpellation today on the basis of notices that institutions will be closed without creating other and better measures instead. We cannot sit still and look at the reduction of treatment provision for one of the most vulnerable groups in our society. Children, adolescents and adults with severe mental disorders such as psychosis are groups that cannot stand on the barricades themselves. They're too sick. Their relatives also have a challenging situation. There are several examples of institutions in which treatment provision is undergoing or has been abandoned, and there are several who fear that patients will suffer during the conversion. Let me do some examples. Blueberry in Health Bergen is an example. Blåberlia is a multi-disciplinary treatment provision for young people with psychosis/schizophrenia and the need for longer treatment stays. It has been decided to reduce the number of places from 16 to 8. The process has been stopped for the time being since the Labour Inspectorate assesses the process itself in the case. According to the Liaison Committee, there are no professional and economic arguments to do so. Young people with psychosis are a vulnerable group. Many of these patients have extensive malfunctions and very special treatment needs. The treatment schedule for exactly these patients may vary from three months to up to a few years. On a number of occasions, public health authorities have pointed out that the provision of health care to people with severe and complex mental disorders is not good enough in many places. It is an explicit objective that people with severe mental disorders should also be able to live and be treated in their immediate environment. It is important to prevent people from being institutionalised. The Christian People's Party is occupied with this. Equally, building up alternatives in parallel is important in processes of building up institutions. We can't put anything down until the patients have received a better offer. A key question is also whether some patients are so poor that accommodation may be necessary, including over time. Providing the necessary treatment early may also prevent this later. Based on notifications from the National Association of Psychiatrics, LPP, other good offers have not been built up. They believe that the nursing home disappears without establishing adequate services in the municipalities. We have a bunch of examples. Lack of staff and knowledge and lack of priority for mental health in municipalities actually mean that not everyone gets the help and support that is needed. The association fears a weakening of the supply of mentally ill people when the designation of resources for mental health is also included in the framework of municipalities from next year. The conversion of the offer at Blåbärlia came at the same time as the waiting time guarantee for children and young people under the age of 23. There is reason to fear that the room for patients with poor statistical results over a long period of treatment and, therefore, low patient penetration is receiving a weakened treatment provision. At the same time, the offer is extended to patients with minor disorders who require shorter treatment periods and who contribute to faster patient penetration and thereby a reduction in queues. Daily and daily treatment consumes 80 pst at country level. of the total capacity in the field of mental health protection for adults. Given the same available frameworks, I fear financially that patients with the most serious conditions will receive a lower offer as a result of the introduction of the waiting time guarantee. Thus, there is a great danger that the economy will control the priority of who will be treated. Another example: at Solbu post-care home for people with mental disorders in Oslo, operations were terminated on 1 September this year. In my opinion, there is a paradox that there are closures of good offers within a period of escalation of mental health. The closure occurred as a result of the unilaterally defined offer of the specialist health service at Ullevål Hospital to simply no longer be their responsibility, but a municipal responsibility, and they cancelled the operation. Afterwards, there is no second line service in the municipality. The municipality, on its side, was never contacted to ensure that the offer of Solbu could be continued before the decision was taken. This hit more people who lost their offer. Adult people had to move home to their parents — though young, but adults — others moved into apartments left to themselves without having the network that mobilised the resources of the individual. To a large extent, several were left alone and without footholds. Both user and family organisations and the director of the psychologists’ association warned against the closure. Personally, I was at Solbu after the closure decision was made, and then I listened to the clients who cried their brave tears because they didn't know where to go just a few weeks later. I have checked at the latest today, so the information that someone went to the parents, and someone was placed in ordinary apartments, is correct. So these are patients who don't have enough of an hour with some psychologist in a district psychiatric center. These were young people who lived in an institution and were under treatment. The Christian People's Party has on several occasions pointed out that economics alone must not control the kind of treatment to be given, but we must also see what is medically sound, and we must take individual considerations into account. Solbu was the victim of the lack of interaction in healthcare, but also of the lack of interaction between health services and other sectors. Seeing the whole human being is missing in the help given, and it feels like piecewise and divided. A good measure in a sector may fail because another sector does not follow up. It happened to Solbu, and I don't know how it's going to go with these young adults. After almost ten years of stepping up treatment for mentally ill people, it turns out that there is still a great deal to be done, we all agree. It shows not least the National Audit Office's report, which was published last week. It was found that there is no equivalent offer in the country for the treatment of mentally ill. Prioritisation of patients to be assisted does not work well enough. There is a lack of management of specialist health services both from regional health businesses and from central authorities, and governance data is also too poor. This shows that there is still a need for earmarking, as I see it, of the means of stepping up mental health, both in the municipalities and in the specialist health service. We have also proposed this in the alternative budget. An action plan is also needed for the follow-up of patients with long-term and severe mental disorders, in order to ensure a decent and sound treatment provision, individually adapted housing and good organisation of services, inter alia. cooperation between the community health service and the specialist health service. It is important to remember that, in addition to the mental health escalation plan, there is a need for 2,800 homes adapted to mental illness. An action plan should also include how this need is to be met. My question is: what will the Council of State do to ensure that the treatment provision of the most vulnerable patients in the field of mental health protection continues to be built up?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2327	It's always interesting to meet in Stortinget and participate in interpellation debates. This time I have to say that I am particularly pleased that we have an opportunity to have such a debate in Stortinget before we take a Christmas holiday, precisely because it is good that we get it done in the wake of the national audit report that came last week. I believe that I and the representative Davøy really agree on such an overall summary after the effort that has been on mental health protection in Norway in recent years. My summary is at least that there is no doubt that much has improved. I have no doubt that the mental health service in Norway today is much better than it was when we started to escalate. It also shows that when political Norway decides something in common, that long-term and strategic efforts are to be made on a sector, it produces results. The action plan has been followed up by varying governments of different colours. It's been very good. At the same time, there's every reason to say that we're not in the goal. There's still a lot of work to do. That is why I am pleased with the national audit report. I believe that it has some interesting perspectives, including: the fact that the Riksrevision has been able to go into the patient records and read a number of records, which we normally cannot do, and which we do not have access to in the ministry. But there's been the National Audit Office. It is clear that the kind of experience they then experience is exciting for us to get presented overall through the national audit report. There will also be several interesting discussion bases in addition to the year in which we are about to enter. Among other things, the Research Council will carry out a final evaluation of the entire escalation plan. It's going to be interesting to read. We also know that this year and next year, the Health Authority has the issue of mental health protection for its national supervision. However, let me now comment on some of the things I think it is important to work with. I agree with the interpellant, Bavøy, that it is those with the greatest needs that need to be helped first. And then it's also a fact that the Riksrevision report states quite thoroughly that it's not always the case. It tells me that the priority rule doesn't work well enough. I have therefore already taken the initiative to review the priority regulation. And then it's obvious that there's a need for a national supervisor in this area as well, like there's a need for national supervisors on priorities. In a number of other areas, there is also a need for this in the context of mental health services. That is why I am very pleased that the Health Directorate has today presented proposals to a national supervisor on the priorities and offers to adults in mental health protection. We also believe that during the spring we should be able to obtain a corresponding national guide for priorities in the paediatric psychiatry. There is an absolute need, for there are some differences in treatment provision that are unacceptable and that cannot be explained by the allocation and availability of professionals. For example, in Sogn and Fjordane, there are six compulsions per year. 10 000 inhabitants, while in Eastfold there are 27 compulsions per year. 10,000 inhabitants. It is not possible to explain in addition that, in my opinion, there are unacceptable differences in the practice of the profession. It doesn't have much to do with either appropriations or anything else. Otherwise, I would like to say that in the longer term, the major challenge of mental health protection in Norway is that it is in my opinion a wrong distribution of resources. That's too much what I call a back-end health service. By doing so, I believe that an excessive proportion of the resources are used in the second line service. Three out of four dollars are used in the second line service, and a very large proportion of it is again used in institutional places. I think we need institutions, both for adults, children and young people. I agree with the inter-pellant. But I'm absolutely sure using 75-80 pst. the resources of the second line service are incorrect. We need to be able to build up a better community service, a better low-threshold service, a much more interconnected service between municipalities and district psychiatric centres, so that we avoid so many getting so sick that they need institutional facilities. More people have to be helped earlier. I am absolutely sure that is the major political challenge in the field of mental health protection in Norway. I'm very inspired when, for example, I'm inspired. reads about Jären District Psychiatric Centres, which have cooperated with neighbouring municipalities. At the Jären District Psychiatric Centres they have 34-35 lucky night beds. One third of these are what we call user-driven. Patients with complex disease images know that when they begin to feel that they need something more than the daily supply they receive, they themselves can very much decide that they should be admitted to the district psychiatric center. Knowing that, the use of these beds has gone down a lot. I.e. increased availability leads to lower consumption. There is an example of building good lowthreshold services to prevent a situation that is now almost characterised by the fact that patients — almost oppositely — have to sicken themselves and get so sick that they receive treatment in an institution. If we're able to allocate resources more rationally, helping more people at an early stage, I also think we'll have enough resources left to provide institutional services to those who need it. In the short term, we are working on this challenge by strengthening cooperation between the district psychiatric centres and the municipalities around it. The next year's budget is set at 50 million. SEK to that type of interaction action, and 20 million has also been allocated. NOK to help municipalities recruit psychologists. The last point that I want to take the opportunity to comment on in this introduction is a topic that is, in itself, also affected by the next interpellation, namely how we organise cooperation between the public health service and the contract specialists. I just have to say that I've heard a lot of stories lately about patients who come from the firm with a list of almost 50 names of contract specialists to whom you are responsible for driving and calling, and many people feel that they are calling and calling and from one specialist after another are told that they are unfortunately not able to help them. If patients who are in the process of developing a serious disease are themselves assigned to administer their own health care in that way, I believe that it simply does not work. So one of the things we really have to do in the short term is get a system in the health regions that makes sure that we, as authorities, have a system against the contract specialists where we can refer to those who have free capacity. We need to get an overview of who has free capacity. And there can be no discussion about accepting patients with needs. You have to accept patients with needs if you want to have an appointment with public authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2350	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I very much agree that it is important to discuss psychiatry, and it fits well right now after the Riksrevision report. But first a comment to the very last, that patients get a list with 50 names and call and call: Yes, they did last year, and they did in the previous year. This is not new, neither for us nor for the Government. It is possible that it is new to a new government council, but it has been mentioned in Stortinget, there is evidence of it. It's just a shame it's still happening. It's absolutely true that a lot has improved. It is also positive that the Council of State has taken on board both prioritisation and guidance. In fact, it is the case today that the authorities are allowed to make offers without any new ones being built up. I could take more examples, but I don't. It is one of my major concerns today, and the Council of State is not responding to it at all. I am a little disappointed about that, but it is possible that he can come back to it in later articles. I don't disagree that we have a heavy system in the second line service in many ways. And I think it's very true that if we get in much, much earlier -- here we don't disagree -- and treat children and young people in the initial phase of a mental disorder, also adults for that part, we could prevent a relapse, or maybe you have to stay for a long time and get treatment in an institution. But it requires that we have an up-to-date competence in our municipalities, which is about to be built up in many places, and that's positive. But if we read the National Audit Office's report, it's actually not just for Ullevål hospitals or other hospitals in the second-line service with a pen stroke to erase an institution and believe that district psychiatric centers or municipalities will take over. In fact, that report says that the DPSs, the district psychiatric centres, are too bad in many places – and they do not say ‘many places’, but very many places. Especially are they too bad for the sick. They simply lack competence. In addition, they say that although the department has ordered the DPSs to maintain the beds they have, they have been closed several places — not altogether, but many. I am concerned, and I must be allowed to ask the Council of State if he can comment on whether he does not agree that you must not build down until you have built up, anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2368	It may well be that the situation of calling contract specialists is well known to the Stortinget, and that it has been discussed many times before. And then we'll see if I can manage to be the first to do something about it. It is at least the ambition I have taken on, so Stortinget will rather punish me if I fail to do so. But now it's going to be tried at least. So the representative Davøy here raises the eternal problem: how do conversion work? I'm humble with that. But at the same time, I would like to say that when such a large proportion of the funds for mental health are used in daily places in the specialist health service, I am absolutely convinced that this is wrong. We have twice as high bed capacity as Sweden, Denmark and Finland, and we have three to four times as good bed capacity as England. I am absolutely convinced that the path to a more modern and proper mental health service in Norway is going through the fact that less needs to be done in the 24-hour institutions, and that more needs to be done in the district psychiatric centres, in the municipalities, and not least in an interaction between the municipalities and the district psychiatric centres. And we have to dry down something to build something else. But I agree with the representative Davøy that it is unacceptable if patients become involved in such a game. For this reason, in the context of conversion, it is essential that we do not lose anything until we feel confident that patients have a substitute. It is a very clear control signal from me, and it has been a very clear control signal from health ministers before me. Then I register that there is a debate if it is fulfilled. When I ask myself around, I feel that I get quite a good response that the health companies, the hospitals and the professional community are very concerned about the patients in such a difficult situation. But it may be that it has been done wrong. This is hard. But the fact that it's difficult, just has to lead to that we're sharpening with a view to doing things even better, because we can't stop conversion. We can't stop changing the mental health service in the direction that I think it has to go. In that case, we do not get a mental health service that is in the long run for the benefit of patients in Norway. I am absolutely convinced of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2379	First of all, I would like to thank Laila Davøy for an important debate, not least in these days when many budgets are being created around municipal governments and health companies that will mean something to the supply of mental health in the coming year, and the years ahead. I agree both with the inter-pellant and with the state council which basically says that it has happened very well, but that there is still a lot left. I think that's a cross-political agreement. The escalation plan has given us over 70 new district psychiatric centers, and it has given us an economic strengthening of the field that I do not imagine we would have got without an obligating plan that has been followed up under different governments. The most important of all is perhaps still, I think that's the basis for saying, that during this period we have gained more knowledge and transparency about mental health. There are several people who are looking for help, and it's basically good. A waiting period guarantee has also been introduced, which will give children and young people under the age of 23 the right to assessment within 10 working days and the right to treatment within 90 days. And we have a management target for hospitals that they're going to have bigger growth in psychiatry than in somatics. Then we need more grips, and I'll describe some of them. Governments have also been involved in much of that. Firstly, we need more interaction, and I know that Bjarne Håkon Hanssen spends a lot of time working on the interaction reform that is to come. The Mental Health Council has said that psychiatry is a ‘transitional system’ and the challenge is formulated: ‘How does the service relate to different intensity of symptoms in the individual user?’ Of course, we have different offers in the primary and specialist health services. At the same time, one of the things that gets experienced as a big impression is to have to tell his story over and over again. If you get a little bit sicker, you have to refer one further and start again. If one then gets a little bit fresher again, one might be referred back to the primary health service and have to tell his story again. For many, this happens many times, you go back and forth, and it can be very difficult. There are no simple answers here, but it is very important and good that this is taken into account. Secondly, we need more psychologists in the municipalities. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State has announced that an important part of the already mentioned interaction reform will be strengthening the community health service. There must be a link between treatment, housing, everything – and it is the municipality that must create that security. Thirdly, we need to catch up on disease as early as possible, through more focus on prevention and low-threshold measures. In particular, we have to catch people where they are, and we have to catch them up as early as possible. School health services are an example of lowthreshold services that capture children and young people where they are often found: at school. The health centre of young people can be a good response, although it appears that in particular some boys may have too high a threshold to seek out such measures. Of course, the decision-makers are important. There are big differences in how often a seeker doctor and how high a threshold people have to ask for help. Fourthly, we must build further interaction with the families and relatives. There may be a link between treatment and daily life, which can make it easier for the patient to master everyday life when treatment is over and one should return home. Fifthly, and that is important: now that the escalation period ends, one must take advantage of the opportunity to gather experience and look at everything that has been done in many different ways out in the municipalities. One has to systematize the knowledge you have acquired, look at what has worked best, and what has given good results, and learn from it. Then I'm also very, very happy that the Council of State said what he said about looking at the possibility of, for example. Introducing a form of joint admission centre, so that when you are referred to a psychologist, there are some people who find you a psychologist, and you do not get a list and call around yourself, firstly because it may be difficult for some to take the caller rounds, especially if you get a lot of rejections, and secondly, to prevent the bias of the offer being given, that some with special problems experience a higher threshold in order to get help than others. I am very pleased that the Council of State took it up as clearly as he did, and I am looking forward to it being further worked on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2410	I'll go back a little bit in time. In St.meld. No 25 for 1996–1997, it is recognised that there is a shortage at all stages of the treatment chain. Now I guess it actually turns out that this is the way it is today. From the examination of the escalating plan on 17 June 1998, I would like to repeat an opinion from Mr Gravdahl of the Labour Party. She was the rapporteur on the matter. She said, ‘The need has been identified and we know more about opportunities and limitations’. She also said, The need for coordination is high both between the 1st and 2nd line services and between the departments involved.’ The thresholds are often high. Everyone's working on their tasks. How far have we come there? Have we perhaps not come so much further today than we were at that time? Every year, the same thing is pointed out. At least we're far from the goal. John I. Alvheim also said something that might be worth noting. He suggested that it be ‘established and formalised outsourcing contracts between the acute departments of the psychiatry, the patient, primary physician and the aftercare and rehabilitation functions. It is important that psychiatric patients discharged from the emergency wards return to their homes receive a quality assurance follow-up with regard to supervision, and not least with regard to follow-up of medication.’ It's not followed up. That's what you see today. It has not been ensured that the municipalities have the capacity, that they have the competence to follow up seriously ill, and that is where it fails many times. John I. Alvheim also said something else that it is worth noting, and that is equally topical today. He said the DPS had to ‘are able to receive patients for short periods of emergency hospitalisation during evening and weekend crises.’;» It's not every place you get into the moment you need help. So much of what was said during the debate over ten years ago is equally topical today. I guess it's a little disappointing, at least for me, who's only been in for three years, to see you repeat the same year after year, and it's not going to be good. The quality of the data available turns out to be very, very poor today. You actually know very little about how good the offer is. You don't know how sick they are those who are being rejected, and you don't know about those who get help in the specialist health service, you get the help that they need and that they need. It was said that twice as many people get an offer today. There's a lot of ways to think about it. Maybe twice as many get a discount, or maybe three times as many get a discount. It varies greatly from district to district, and there is nothing to suggest that patients in one area should not have the same need for specialist health services as those living in another district. There's a lack of psychologists with shrinks and psychiatrists. Now the Council of State promised that he would take care of it right away. Over a year and a half ago, I asked the same question to the Council of State Sylvia Brustad. She promised the exact same thing. At the time, the evening post had called 50 different psychologists without getting a response. I took it up with her in a question-time question, and she promised that it would be settled in, and it would happen quickly. It is disappointing that not so much has happened, and I hope that the new Council of State will now ensure that something happens quickly with it. Psychiatrist Leif Roar Falkum had a chronicle in the evening post a few years ago that took care of the problem of patients being rejected, and that they were not forwarded in the specialist health service even if they had a need. He believed that the threshold for getting help was very random, and it was set very high, and patients were not referred to specialists outside the public sector. There are many psychiatrists, and there are offers outside the public that are not used. It is not because the need is met within the public health system, but because of saving money and wanting to keep patients in the health sector. How, then, do we avoid a breach of time? It's been said several times, and that's actually what happens, that either you reject patients who should have been entitled to specialist health care, or you give them consultations so that they get to the other end faster, or there'll be a longer distance between each consultation. Patients are quickly printed out when they have been admitted – too quickly – and they come back in and are counted several times. Hospitals also save money. Ahus has not spent his money; they have a lot of money left, although there are patients waiting and waiting. In the case of anorexia, you have a very good offer in Fredrikstad at the Capio Anorexia Center. They are not allowed to come under free hospital choice, and they only have half of the patients they could receive. There's a lot of coercion, and it's very unnecessary. It is a sign that patients are getting help too late, and that there is a major failure in the provision of treatment. The wallet decides, and the weakest and sickest do not need health care. Now I hope that the Council of State takes hold of these things quickly, and makes sure that something happens. It hasn't happened much in the three years I've been here, at least not much with what we've pointed out here before.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2460	20 years ago, in 1987, the first priority investigation found that mental health protection was sadly outlawed in relation to the rest of the health system. All hearing bodies agreed, the department agreed, the government agreed, and the Stortinget agreed. Ten years later, the second prioritisation, in response to the first part of the mandate, namely what had happened over the past ten years, found that there had been virtually no events, despite 100 pst. agreement. That was the background for the escalation plan ten years ago, and the intentions with it were certainly good. I noticed that both the interpellant and the state council assured several times that a lot has happened. It's very possible. The problem is that we don't know what, simply because the escalation plan hasn't been concrete enough in its operational objectives, and it hasn't been fixed in time when the different steps should have been implemented. It is well and good to carry out an evaluation afterwards, after ten years, but the lesson we need to learn is that in the future the evaluation must be carried out on an ongoing basis, along with the escalation plan. The objectives must be defined in such a clear way that it is possible to determine whether they have been achieved or not. Today we are blind. On the other hand, what we know after the National Audit Office's report is what we haven't achieved in these ten years, and it's scary a lot. The Riksrevision simply states, by peeling off all wrapping papers, that in this area, mental health protection, the patient rights law does not apply. It is not the patient’s state of health that determines whether entitlement to necessary medical care is granted with a time limit. It finds the Riksrevision without reservation of any kind. Because if it had been, the numbers had to have looked different than they do in today's Norwegian healthcare system, with the huge differences from district to district. The reason why there are not very many time-limits recorded is simply that time-limits are not allowed. Then it can be per. definition does not break time limits. But it is directly contrary to the law. It shows that in this area we have a lot of law and crazy little order. There is simply no respect for the principles laid down by the law on the ground. In June of this year, in response to the invitation to tender, Nav entered into an agreement with Aleris Health, which operates psychiatric outpatients in Oslo, Akershus, Hordaland and South-Trøndelag, to ensure that patients with a break-in period should be provided by Aleris Health. After six months, there is no reference to a single patient for a time limit. It's quite well done. My very specific question and my challenge to the Minister of Health is: wouldn't it be an idea that he told the system of which he is the chief responsible leader, clearly and clearly, that once such an agreement has been reached, should it be respected? Then it's simply supposed to increase capacity, and it's going to help those who administer the law stick to the law. When Aleris Health operates today despite the fact that public health is almost consistently sabotaged, there is one thing, namely that there are enough patients who are not willing to wait and who pay the costs 100 pst. It's self. This means that in this area, which is the most vulnerable in Norwegian health, the difference in class is even greater than it is in the process of becoming a health care provider in general. And it's the individual's ability to pay that determines whether you get an offer or not. I hope that the Council of State doesn't want to be familiar with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2479	Today’s situation shows that about half of the population suffers from mental illness during life. The most common disorders are anxiety and depression. The Public Health Institute shows that a total of 8 pst. of the country’s children and young people suffer from a mental disorder that is severe in treatment. The Public Health Institute also states that the better income and education you have, the more likely your mental health is to be good. The Psychiatric escalation plan has provided more treatment, but at the same time the number of people in need of help has increased, so that the number of waiting has increased. This shows that there is every reason to increase efforts and, in particular, to focus on prevention in cooperation with municipal auxiliaries. SV is therefore pleased that the funds for mental health work are being continued and that efforts are being increased in cooperation between district psychiatric centres and the municipal mental health service. The earmarked funds for municipalities and regional health enterprises are now transferred as a framework grant. These funds are followed up by reporting from municipalities and regional health businesses to ensure a stronger supply. SV is subject to human rights with regard to mental health protection, in particular in relation to the use of coercion. Patients and relatives often experience that coercive measures are offensive and unnecessary, and that the user is not adequately consulted. It is therefore important that the Government provide good and dignified transport systems for mentally ill people, which help to minimise the use of coercion and police. It is important to develop good and local measures to prevent and follow up people with mental illness and their families. Therefore, we in the SV are very positive about the Government's work on an interaction reform, where interaction between the different levels of mental health protection services is central, and where it is also working to establish a funding system that ensures an overall patient trajectory. It is positive that the Health Directorate has today provided a national guide for the prioritisation of patients in mental health protection for adults. It turns out that there is every reason to follow this up more closely after the National Audit Office's findings that it is by chance who is receiving help in the field of mental health protection, and that among those with heavy diagnostics, the percentage who are being rejected is as high as among those patients who receive an offer. The SV therefore looks forward to an evaluation of the Escalation Plan and the results of the nationwide supervision of mental health protection by the National Health Authority. Together with the forthcoming interaction reform, the results of this evaluation and supervision would provide a good basis for further development of mental health protection in order to ensure that all people with mental health disorders are offered what they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2496	Psychiatric health protection has received a lot of attention in the last few days, and in particular the National Audit Office's report, Document No. 3:5, which we have listened to before today. The report has made some strong headlines in the media, such as:: A crushing sentence on adult psychiatry, Slaughter of Norwegian adult psychiatry, Disaster in Norwegian psychiatry and Psychiatry are at an end. These are headlines in Norwegian media. It's quite interesting that we need a national audit report to get more people to see the light. The alarm has gone before, too. We have had SINTEF reports, and in February 2006, the State Health Authority issued a report on the use of coercive measures in mental health protection. He concluded that there might be more than 10,000 compulsions in the psychiatry in Norway per. years. If one takes a calculator separately, one can see that it means more than one coercion per. hour 24 hours a day all year. It's alarming, and it puts Norway at the top of Europe when it comes to the use of coercion in psychiatry. Even more serious is the fact that coercion is closely linked to poverty problems, housing solutions, mental retardation and dementia. For example, force is most commonly used against the weakest. Basic human rights are undoubtedly broken in many cases when coercion is used in psychiatry. Especially serious is the case when such abuses are carried out against those who have legal certainty, but who actually do not know that they have such legal certainty. The left had an interpellation about this problem in this room before Christmas last year. We will later present a proposal for a representative aimed at reducing the use of coercive measures in the field of mental health protection. The proposal was debated here in this Chamber on 19 June this year. In the course of the examination of the draft representative, the Ministry of Health and Welfare stated in a letter to the Committee that a working group should be set up, inter alia: should assess the use of coercion and educational material for health professionals, with a focus on human rights. The Ministry then stated that the working group would submit a report before June 2009 and that the Stortinget would be briefed on the status of St.prp. No 1 for 2008–2009, i.e. in the health budget. I have searched and found out what is written about this in St.prp. No 1st@item: I must say that it is disappointing when I am in St. prp. No 1 can read the following: ‘The government will come back with a status for this work in the State budget for 2010.’» I believe that the Government does not give the work on mental health protection a high priority. That is why I have to end my speech by asking the Council of State: will the Council of State contribute to the foraging of the work of the Group, so that this matter is given the highest priority it deserves, and the priority that the Council of State has said in more detail should apply here?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2520	I would like to thank you for your participation in the debate. There has been a nice debate in many ways, and there is a lot we agree on here in the Storting. I have to get back to some of what the Council said in its three-minute post instead. We feel that the Council of State feels that it is somewhat uncomfortable to respond to whether other offers should be present before the expiry of the existing ones, because the cases are so specific. It happened in the summer, and now it's happening in Bergen. The Council of State began by saying how important the transition is, how to implement a change, that we have too high bed capacity in the second line, and that the path to more modern mental health protection is going through better local interventions. In fact, I don't disagree with much of it, but you have to start early, and you have to put the local measures in place. The problem today is that the second line says on the contrary: it is no longer our responsibility. The DPS, the municipality or others may take over. They don't even make sure there's someone out there to take over. Who, if not the other line that has patients in treatment, is responsible for making sure that there is actually a device out there? Who else than those who know the patient can take care of it? The National Audit Office's report says that the DPSs are very much unqualified in many places – and then you let the patients out right away! I wish the Council of State had gone a little further into this. In fact, state councils can – I assume – tell health companies that it is not allowed to close an institution, unless you know that all these individuals are given a new offer. I believe that we as magnification representatives – and for that part of the members of the government – must seek to see the individuals affected. Unfortunately, in psychiatry we often see otherwise, this happens to the sickest, those who may have the smallest network around them, children and young people who may not have parents. They don't scream themselves. Or they don't scream out loud. Should the second line really be allowed to release patients in the way that we've seen examples of? There are several examples. That's why I've taken up this interpellation -- not because I want to prevent the conversion into psychiatry, absolutely not. I hope the council believes me. Just a little comment to the representative Inge Wohnning: I think it's very right that in major reforms at all levels we have to be better off starting ongoing evaluations right away and all the way, so that we know what's going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2539	I'm very happy that the interpellant in his last post here says that we agree on the objectives – mostly, I think it was pretty much the use of words. I hope that we can get into a situation where we can gradually make up a more unified status of what we've been given, and what we haven't got into and put in a plan for the further work within the mental health system that can be discussed here as well. I understand, and I think it's affordable, the commitment that the interpellant has, and that she believes that the processes associated with the liquidation of institutions and the care of patients' woes and well in that context have been too poor. On the part of the Ministry of Health and Health, I feel that it has been very clear that the patient's well-being should be taken care of. The feedback we have received is that there has been a focus on this. Then there's probably a disagreement about what it actually involves to take care of patients' well-being. Of course, I meet as it is the regional health companies, and I have nothing against stressing the importance of good processes in this context – not least to ensure that patients do not lose the offer in the context of necessary reorganisation. Of course, I'll do that again. I think it must be a misunderstanding with the representative of the Left. In line with what we have said earlier, the working group is reduced. It presents its report in June 2009, as we have said before. Then it is not possible to submit a report in a budget to the Stortinget until the budget we present in the autumn of 2009 for 2010. It is not possible to report on a working group presenting its report in June 2009, in the 2009 budget, for it is presented in October 2008. So it has to be like that. So just a very short one for the representative on the payroll. He rightly points out – unfortunately – that the prioritisation rule does not work well enough in the field of mental health protection and that this means that patients who are entitled to health care do not actually get it. Clearly, this is very serious. And it's a serious observation from the National Audit Office. We now deal with this matter in the short term through two main steps. One is a national counsellor from the Health Directorate who the professional community itself has been involved in designing. Then, in the mission document, we will stress the management responsibility of the fact that the law will, of course, apply in this area as well. Then we get to work from there on a very important, serious point that the Riksrevision has pointed out.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2554	The debate on substance is closed. 9 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2570	The reason for this interpellation is to focus attention on the importance that we in health care use all available resources, in terms of both economics, equipment and personnel, in the most efficient way possible, so that as much as possible treatment is provided within a reasonable time. If we are to do this, it is absolutely necessary to make some changes within today's system. What's today's situation? In the last few years, we have seen significant growth in the queue of patients waiting to receive public health care. The waiting times have increased somewhat, and we have seen that the payments for sick pay are also increasing. This happens at the same time that we in Norway have relatively many people who are out of work because they have become disabled. The Minister of Health and Welfare has announced an interaction reform that you will be able to see the outlines of once during 2009. This is a reform that is very much in store for many. It is, however, that Health Norway cannot stop waiting for a reform that no one yet fully knows what will mean. Of course, this is not the intention either, but I still find reason to point this out as an initial comment in this interview. As I said at the outset, it is important to use the resources available in the healthcare system. Such an unused resource is clearly the contract specialists. The contract specialists are part of the care responsibilities of regional health establishments. This part of healthcare is perhaps the most effective part of specialist healthcare if you look at what is done here by healthcare and at what price. When one puts this in context with efficiency, it becomes obvious that there is a lot to get into the specialist healthcare service if one can exploit the potential that lies here in an even better way. It is entirely possible to move several of the large volume treatments that are taking place in hospitals today, out of hospitals and to make them more accessible to others. This can actually be done without a loss of the necessary competence and experience needed in our hospitals. If this is to be possible, contract specialists must obtain a larger number of procedural tariffs, so that they become more in line with the tariffs in the outpatient clinics of hospitals. As an example, I can mention that the contract specialists in the ear, nose, neck area still do not have tariffs for either nasal or sinuses surgery. Agreement specialists already account for a relatively large proportion of outpatient services in the specialist health service. As an example, I might mention that the contract specialists in this context represent 45 pst. of the outpatient services in Health South-East RHF. It is high time to look at the normal rates again in order to put in place rates that have been updated in relation to the current situation, so that the pricing to be applied is in line with current treatment methods. One area affected by this is pain management, a field where there is already a lack of follow-up in many places. In the journal Legekunsten nr. 2 from June 2008 we can read that anesthesiologist Tore Hind Fagerlund, who operates the Smear Medical Institute in Oslo – who otherwise has an agreement with Health South-East RHF – believes that it is not possible to provide patients with modern pain medicine treatment based on the tariffs in today's normal format. It says, among other things: to read in this article that they are a multidisciplinary team to offer modern, multi-disciplinary treatment. But the fact that the standard tariff is outdated helps to preserve an old-fashioned approach to pain medicine. This cannot be a convenient situation, and I expect that a person will continue to work to adapt the individual normalities to the reality that is out there in Health-Norway, so that it can be possible to provide the best treatment also outside the contract specialists and not just in hospitals. It may not be the case that major state hospitals have completely different tariffs and framework conditions than other actors that are part of the responsibility of regional health companies. It is stated in the next year’s government budget that the National Health Plan 2007–2010 announced that the Ministry of Health and Welfare would ‘start work to change the framework conditions for contract specialists’. [[...]] This case shall be further investigated during 2009 and it is written that ‘The actors concerned will be invited to participate in the work.’ In this context, it is now important that a person get ahead of this work, and that the ongoing investigation does not lengthen and become a sleep cushion so that nothing happens. It is possible to put in place measures pending the introduction of a new system by dealing with tariffs and agreements so that more people are treated more quickly, with the consequence that unnecessary sick leave due to lack of capacity can be reduced and many more people can be helped with their illness or pain at an earlier stage. Another instrument to improve the interaction and efficiency of healthcare resources is to include contract specialists in the free choice of hospitals. This should not be a major problem if the LEON principle was really to be applied in this area, namely that treatment should be at the lowest effective level of care. I look forward to hearing the thoughts and plans of the Council of State on how we can use the resource that contract specialists are in today's health care, in an even better way than what we are doing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2596	The contract specialists are a valuable resource in the specialist health service that we are to maintain and further develop. In the 2007–2010 National Health Plan, the Government announced a work aimed at changing the framework conditions for contract specialists. The aim was to better integrate contract specialists into regional health care companies’ responsibilities. The contract specialists are a major public health player. In 2007, this group was responsible for 1,144 year-olds in the specialist health service. Half of these were in the somatic field and half in the field of mental health protection — distributed to psychiatrists and specialists in clinical psychology. In 2007, somatic medical specialists conducted some 2.1 million outpatient consultations – or 35 pst. of all outpatient activities in somatic specialist health services. Also in the field of mental health protection, the contributions of contract specialists are significant, but, as we discussed earlier, we lack good tools to measure the efforts of this part of the service. These tools are about to be put in place, and we expect to get more detailed figures for the activity in 2008. So the contract specialists are important pieces in the specialist health service. That's why we're working on continuing and expanding the system. There are some large geographical differences in the use of outpatient services and some services should be better developed to meet the needs of the regions and at national level. The expected increase in the number of elderly people and the need for coherent healthcare for large patient groups will impose new requirements for the dimensioning and organisation of the service. The challenge is to put in place robust framework conditions so that specialists are more easily accessible to patients and that resources are used to the best possible extent. The Ministry has assessed different models for such framework conditions. The work has been in contact with the Medical Association, the Psychological Association, regional health companies and the Health Directorate. The Government has decided to continue working on a model whereby the negotiation responsibility for the tariff system of the contract specialists is transferred from the State to the regional health establishments. This means that the country transfers funds to the regional health establishments, corresponding to the activity carried out by the contract specialists. This is what is being done today in the outpatient clinics of health establishments. The government believes that such a change will integrate the contract specialists into taking care of responsibility in a better way than today. The interpellant states that ‘contract specialists may not use their cost-effective capacity’ because procedural tariffs are lacking. I assume that he believes there are some types of tasks that the contract specialists do not carry out, because there are no own tariffs for these. Experience from the introduction of tariffs for, inter alia: grey star showed that contract specialists could turn their services to the benefit of a large patient group. It is my opinion that the conversion of the framework conditions as mentioned above can well meet the challenge of ‘missing procedural tariffs’. The assumption is that regional health businesses and professional associations agree on such framework conditions. Such a change must be seen in the light of the total resources available to the entire specialist health service. This means that if we do more in resource-requiring treatments, we have to do less of something else. Responsibility and overview must be collected in one place. For this reason, it is important that regional health businesses take greater responsibility for this part of the specialist healthcare service. The contract specialists are not part of the ‘free hospital choice’ scheme. Nevertheless, contract specialists use much of the information service for ‘free hospital choice’ to help patients who want shorter treatment periods. Both regional health businesses and contract specialists are interested in putting the waiting times online. But there are different opinions about how to measure waiting times. The Health Directorate is therefore to initiate work to find a good solution and the process is to start before the end of the year. Adapting the patient administration systems of the RHFs to allow contract specialists to report the waiting times electronically. Such a system may be in place from 2010. In the 2008 mission papers, regional health companies were asked ‘to ensure that there are procedures/systems whereby referrals to the specialist healthcare services in the field of mental health protection are coordinated, so that patients do not turn to more service providers for help’. In Health South-East, a separate working group has been set up to look at how the availability of contract specialists in mental health protection can be improved. The management of Health South-East is in the process of evaluating the final report of this work. Health South-East has included the following in the mission documents of their health establishments: ‘The health undertaking shall facilitate the best possible cooperation with contract specialists in its field of admission so as to ensure the proper and appropriate care of the region’s overall ‘responsible for responsibility’.’;» Although the contract specialists were not given much space in the hearing notes to the capital process, as the interpellant points out, they were represented in the dialogue groups in the context of the same process. Furthermore, both the Medical Association were central and the Practising Specialists' National Association, PSL, important hearing bodies. The educational situation in some specialities is under pressure, and there is a lack of practical places to complete specialist training. As of today, there is no possibility of having educational candidates in private practice. It shall be reviewed. The Ministry has asked the Health Directorate to assess how private practices can be used to train new specialists. I am waiting for feedback on this before the end of the year. The government believes that contract specialists are an important resource in the specialist health service. The Ministry is further working on framework conditions to facilitate the further development of contract specialists as an effective and important part of the specialist health service. We're in a phase where we're specifying details in this model. The professional associations and the regional health establishments shall be invited to make representations in this respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2627	I would first of all like to thank the Council of State for the answer, but I have to say that part of it gives me cause for concern. That concern is that negotiations relating to tariffs and agreements should be moved from the State to the regional health establishments. I'm worried because then there's reason to fear that the regional health companies, who are already very central in this, are going to manage even more than today, just beyond this part of health care. Personal fears, at least, were signed that a situation could quickly arise where the focus of regional health companies' own institutions, i.e. health companies, is on the patient and then he forgets the patient up in this. At the same time, regional health businesses are almost building up their own businesses in their own regions and very rarely look beyond their own regions. Then we just get the problem that the contract specialists are misdistributed. This means that in some areas, such as in the central eastern region, while outside the central eastern region, where there are relatively few contract specialists in some fields, greater use will be made of this option for their own systems, and not for their own regions, because it costs more money. This, I think, is worrying, and I hope that the Council of State will also look at that field. I hope that these professionals, these groups, are not only invited to make recordings of the ministry and the work done, but are included in the work done. Because this is very important. This is actually about patients and patients' ability to get help. Governments themselves were concerned with free hospital choice and problems associated with this. This with these agreements could actually be partly resolved if the contract specialists had been part of the free hospital choice, because in several places in the country they could have made use of the capacity that is there, and not as the future can be – I hope it will not be, but it can be – that regional health companies first sit down and see what capacity they themselves have, regardless of the price and capacity, and the queues could then increase, while having an important resource out there, with the contract specialists, who are not used. So I hope the Council of State will take this into consideration, and take the contract specialists into work and not just invite them to make recordings.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2638	Of course, I am listening to the recordings that come from the head of the Health and Welfare Committee, and I will also listen to the debate that comes. But the main track, the government has decided, is that we want to use regional health companies more strongly. But then there is a lot of work to be done. And then we're going to both draw along, listen to and give the chance to record for the professional associations, but it's not the ones that are going to decide. We have to do it ourselves. I feel that this is also a debate based on whether we believe in the model that is now in Health-Norway, i.e. that it is the regional health companies that have the responsibility. I see that it's a model that doesn't work perfectly in any way, but so far I'm convinced that we have a proper organisation of Health-Norway in four health regions, and make sure the responsibility lies clearly there. An important public health resource is the contract specialists. By having an agreement, you are part of the health care system listed. At that time, it is the responsibility of regional health businesses to ensure that resources available, including contract specialists, are used to provide patients with the best possible health care, in line with the laws and regulations on which priority is given. I believe that, in relation to my ability to take responsibility for and control developments in this area, the responsibility is made clear by this grip. Regional health companies will not be able to say that there are parts of the resources in our region that we have very little control over and influence over. They have the ability to control and influence through this grip. This will also make it easier for me and the Stortinget Group to make demands on those who are to take care of them. Now it has to be done. Then, of course, I will take the opportunity, as I said, to listen to the input that comes into this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2649	Health services face major challenges in order to provide patients with the necessary quality of health care when they need it. Despite significant growth in the allocation of specialist health services, health cows have increased by more than 40,000 patients under the red-green government. Several patient groups experience increased waiting time. Medical technological development and increasing expectations reinforce the need for a good prioritisation, strong leadership and better organisation and efficiency of healthcare. Agreement specialists and other private actors are an important part of the overall healthcare system, and the Right considers that their role needs to be strengthened and further developed. There is cross-political agreement on a publicly funded healthcare service that ensures the necessary quality of health care for all patients. However, there is a line between the non-socialist parties and the red-greens in view of the role of private actors. The right considers that private actors, including contract specialists, contribute to better health care quality and positive diversity. In addition, these represent an important corrective factor for public health. The government's instructions for regional health companies to prefer public service providers lead to pressure on private operators in many areas, regardless of whether their services are both qualitatively better and more cost-effective. For contract specialists, this leads to virtually no new homes being allocated, despite the fact that more contract specialists could have ensured faster and better health care for patients and better use of resources. A report from the Norwegian Patient Register shows that the vast majority of contract specialists have a higher activity in their activities than normal figures suggest. The contract specialists performed 35 pst. by all consultations in somatic disciplines in 2007, according to the Norwegian Patient Register. In particular, the central role of contract specialists in the provision of services is in the area of eye, skin, ear-nasal and birth aid and women’s diseases. There are wide variations in the public supply of outpatient services. The contract specialists make an important contribution to balancing these differences and thus creating a more equivalent health provision for the population throughout the country. As you can see on the right, the provision of health services could be strengthened through the allocation of several facilities to contract specialists. This is particularly relevant in areas where patients experience a long waiting period for necessary treatment, including: psychiatry. When the capacity of private specialists is not exploited, a classed health service is created where only those with a good economy can buy out of the public health queue. When sales of private health insurance have increased by 70 p.m., this shows a lack of confidence in the need for public health care assistance. I would challenge the Council of State to comment on the possibility of extending the number of permits for contract specialists, in order to ensure faster healthcare for patients. There is also a need to strengthen health services in the districts. Norway has a higher number of hospital doctors and nurses than other European countries. This has not provided significantly better health services, rather on the contrary. The Ministry of Health and Health has estimated that the number of hospitalisations can be reduced by 10 pst. if the health offer outside the hospital was strengthened. In this area, too, the provision of contract specialists can help to strengthen the provision of health care where people live, thus reducing the need for hospitalisation and patient transport. On the right, we are positive that private actors, including contract specialists, can contribute in several areas of healthcare, including: in the field of research and training. This will give actors more overall responsibility for healthcare, and we also record that many people want to contribute. At the same time, this can contribute to the necessary recruitment of new specialists. It is therefore positive, and I am pleased that the Council of State now signals that he will consider having educational candidates also with private contract specialists. We have also noticed what the Council of State had to say, that there is a work going on in the Ministry of Health and Welfare to find new funding models for the contract specialists. On the right, we would like to stress that a new system must ensure predictable framework conditions for financing and operation, as well as a reasonable autonomy in professional and administrative matters. In order to ensure better information on the available capacity of private contract specialists, a better system is needed. The parents of the late Norwegian artist St. Thomas recently reported that they had found 50 rejection letters from psychologists from whom the son had sought help. This illustrates with heartrending clarity that we need to put in place a better system and a system in which patients themselves need to find out to specialists with free capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2672	The contract specialists are undoubtedly an important part of the specialist healthcare service, and they provide effective services. It's been a long time since Stortinget wanted a bigger stake in the contract specialists. As early as 1999, an overall social committee proposed to introduce surgical tariffs, known as the K-tariffs, into the standard contract specialist tariff. It was former Health Minister Dagfinn Højbrätten who proposed to grant the first million to such K-taxes. It turned out to be successful, but it's hard to understand that so little has happened later, despite the good efficiency we see in their work. Private contract specialists have even increased the emphasis on more use of contract specialists, on more agreements and on the further development of tariffs. We have all seen that cows can be reduced and removed quickly in different areas – I mention as an example queues for almond and cataract operations – precisely by means of private contract specialists. As a result, more statistics are available on their effective efforts. A SINTEF report of 2004 showed that the number of outpatient consultations per The private contract specialist was 15.6 in somatic subjects per year. day(s) Corresponding hospital specialists treated only two patients each day. Even in psychiatry, we see enormous differences in the number of daily consultations between contract specialists and employees in hospitals or DPS doctors. Of course, some of the differences are natural, as hospital doctors have other tasks as well. My point is, when we see that the queues are growing, what is the reason why we don't use the contract specialists anymore? They're there and they can be used. In January 2005, a new framework agreement was signed between the regional health establishments and the Medical Association on medical contract practices. In this one, it says, among other things.«The Framework Agreement shall contribute to ensuring good public access to high-quality healthcare». Furthermore, it says that health cows should be remedied and proper medical treatment given to patients with acute and chronic diseases. My question will then be whether regional health companies should consider allowing more of their homes to go to private contract specialists, who clearly have the opportunity to work more intensively and more effectively. They've documented that. So a comment that the Council of State today says that regional health businesses are going to take over the management of these agreements. I won't say much about it, but maybe call a little warning. We haven't exactly seen that this government has shown great enthusiasm for the use of what you can call private, but it's possible that this will be different. We have seen private institutions that have been wound up or reduced, precisely because regional health businesses have wanted to build up their own capacity, and there has been a problem not least in the drug sector and also in the psychiatric sector. What we don't have numbers on, but what it might be interesting to get numbers on, are the cost differences between the outpatient hospitals and the contract specialists on similar treatments and operations. I wish we could get a better statistics on the future. It is very positive that the Minister of Health says that he wants to look at specialist candidates in education and that contract specialists can be used in this context. The need for better recruitment has long been pointed out, and it has not been very long since we heard that the National Council once again called for the participation of contract specialists in education. However, it is a little incomprehensible when the Ministry of Health and Welfare has said that it is okay to approve the specialist practice, including for contract specialists, that it should take so long that it may be possible to put it in place in 2010 at the earliest. I could imagine that the Council of State said a little bit more about why it takes so long.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2695	Agreement specialists, as the name says, are specialists who have an agreement with regional health care providers. The agreements shall include: that the specialists receive reimbursement from the National Agency for the treatment, and patients pay a reasonable amount of money. So it's undoubtedly for the benefit of both sides. The left believes that the system of contract specialists is good, and that it represents a very important offer in addition to the public specialist health service. However, if these important specialist resources are to be exploited as best as possible, interaction needs to take place – a trade-off that has become well-known, not least via Hanssen State Council – between all stages, not least with the primary medical level. This must also be improved. That's what they say, the regional health care agencies with the key. It is those who enter into and approve agreements with current specialists, and it is the regional health professionals who are responsible for ensuring good and equivalent supply throughout Health-Norway. In my opinion, regional healthcare providers may face a challenge here, with most contract specialists located in larger cities. In more pig-grown areas, there are few or no contract specialists. Then there will be few offers, except for the peoples. I mean, I heard that the Council of State was also involved in this in their article. This, I believe, is an important moment, and I want to encourage the Council of State that, as a general meeting of regional health care providers, he makes them particularly aware of this moment of distribution when they are to enter into agreements with private specialists, so that the specialist supply is more equally distributed throughout the country. I mean, as I said, becoming a contract specialist, is also attractive to the specialist, which means that a person has access to public reimbursement for parts of the work. I also know – and have so far experienced – that it has been used to recruit medical specialists at local hospitals in the districts. For example, I know that one has got solutions where one has had 50 pst. specialist job at the hospital in ordinary medical position and 50 pst. contractual housing, and that such combination solutions have solved difficult recruitment problems for some hospitals. I also know that such combination solutions have encountered resistance in many regional healthcare agencies, although they have helped recruit specialists. I think that this combination has led to creativity and flexibility, and I also think that here we can really talk about interaction – that word fits here too. At the end of the day, I just want to ask the Council of State as a general meeting of these health services: does he see any problem in establishing such flexible combination solutions as those I referred to?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2710	There has been no noticeable interest in this interpellation debate on the part of the government parties. You can interpret it in different ways, but it certainly reflects the fact that the enthusiasm for the very theme that has been raised is relatively limited on that side. In response to the inter-pellant on the question of specialist training and the possible role of private contract specialists in practice, the Council of State replied. It's an exciting theme, which I would like to hear a little bit more about from the Council of State. It is true in the Norwegian system that very much of the responsibility for specialist education, both the definition of specialities and the organisation, lies with the Medical Association. You might say it almost liberally so that it is part of the Norwegian education system that is ‘outsourced’ to the professional organisation. I have no definite perception of what are the strong and the weak sides of it, but it's a little special scheme. My question to the Council of State is whether he experiences it so that he has sufficient control of this system, given that we agree that there are considerable recruitment problems in some areas, while there is very good recruitment in other areas. A nearby example is the geriatry, which the Storting has been dealing with in the wake of the care notification that we dealt with two years ago. It's an area that we all know is going to be heavily in demand in the years to come for demographic reasons, and where the recruitment is today. There are also questions about whether the definition of the speciality geriatri is really adequate in relation to what we see coming. I should like to hear the Council of State elaborate on this a little bit further. Governments indicated in their response to the number of annual works provided by private contract specialists, and that is an impressively high figure. But as many people have been involved, the extent is actually much larger than what appears in the number of years' work, simply because the proportion of annual work that goes into patient treatment is so infinitely larger with the private actors than with similar professionals working in the public system. There is well reason to believe that the negative development that we have seen in recent years, from a situation where the queues became shorter and shorter for each year, until they now become longer and longer for each year, has a very simple explanation, namely that the capacity of the private part of Norwegian healthcare is being exploited much less today than was the case a few years ago. And my question to the Council of State is: does he not see that there is – in the short term at least – the possibility of turning the negative development back to a positive development? So to one last question. I noticed that the Council of State said about today's model with the regional health companies that it might not be perfect. I think that's an understatement. I should also like to hear the Council of State elaborate a little more on what he thinks is the non-perfect thing about the system. At my discretion, the system is non-perfectly identifiable. This is because making sure that responsibility is only half of the task, and the other half is providing the services. At my discretion, it is almost doomed to go wrong when you place both of these responsibilities in one place. There are not many other places in society that we mix the roles that way. So my question to the Council of State is, doesn't he see that there might be some weakness in the combination of two completely different roles?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2725	I think the interpellant raises an important question in an important area of health. The contract specialists are and shall be an important resource of the specialist health service in Norway. That has been said by the Council of State, and it has been repeated by several. It is important to see this offer collectively in the healthcare system. Private and public health services shall complement each other in a good manner and shall not be competitors in relation to the offer to be made, either economically, professionally or in relation to patients. The contract specialists are also important in order to provide a good professional offer throughout the country. It is therefore necessary to ensure that the service is not concentrated in the major urban areas, where people live in densely populated areas, but that the distance to specialists is made affordable also for those living in the districts. Because it's about accessibility in this area in order to be able to provide a good health care to everyone. I see that there is a question of negotiating responsibility for the tariff system to contract specialists, and that it should be moved from the state to the regional health companies. I think it is important that the Council of States follow this closely, so that we do not experience higher tariffs in some regions, which naturally make contract specialists apply to the areas where the fare system is the best. Such developments should be closely followed in order to ensure a good dissemination of the professional offer. At the same time, it is important that the RHFs have full and complete responsibility in the specialist health service. That is why this is also an important step in this respect – both economically and organisationally in each region. The fact that several patients are in health queues can be interpreted in different ways, but it is important that the capacity available is used to the best possible extent. It can be interpreted as granting even less money than today – or giving more money than before? Are there fewer doctors, nurses, and contract specialists today than before? Is there less investment in health today than before? Are fewer patients treated today than before? This we can probably have a polemics around, but I think that's the opposite that happens, that we have an increase in appropriations both for operation and investment, have more professionals, and that it treats more patients. At the same time, more people are in line. This may mean that the offer has become bigger and better, and that there are more who are asking for the offer. Of course, an important moment is how long you stand in line – not how many queues you have, but how long you are in line. You've seen that in that area, it's going in different directions. You have to take that over. I also see that there are different opinions about how to measure waiting time. That is why it was good to hear the Council of State in its statement that a new year’s work should be undertaken in the Directorate of Health to ensure that at least there are no different opinions, either in the specialist health service or among contract specialists in this field. I am pleased that the Council of State stresses that he will further develop this with the contract specialists as an effective and important part of the specialist health service provision in Norway. It is therefore important to achieve good interaction in order to achieve this. Whether this is important in regional health enterprises, in the municipality and in the country, it is also important to have a good interaction between professional professionals. It is important to have good interaction between individuals in order to achieve the objective of maximising this efficiency. More money is allocated to the health care system each year. Is it just spending more money that is the goal, and which is the scale of whether we've achieved what we wanted? No, no, no. It's about how many people can get an offer and a good offer for the means we're constantly using. That is why I think interaction in this area is an important piece.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2742	First of all, I would like to say that I think it was nice that the representative was finally able to scare up one of the representatives of the government parties in the pulpit. At that post, we saw to the degrees some of the issues that could arise by transferring the negotiating responsibility from the state to the regional health companies. It's actually one of the best posts I've heard today, related to why it's a problem. What was referred to is just that there could be different prices around. A concentration of contract specialists was referred to. The problem is that, to the extent that you don't get an agreement, you actually get a two-part healthcare system, because no one wants to refuse the contract specialist, who has education and authorization, to establish himself. The problem is that he doesn't want an agreement, that is. that the patients who are going to use the person and his or her competence must pay the bill for it. That is, those who have the boldest wallets will not have to stand in these queues, and will be able to buy past them in this field as well. The councils were in for a lot of good work, and I look forward to the reassessment of whether education and practice could also be done by the contract specialists, in order to make use of that capacity. When e.g. The contract specialists within Health South-East alone are responsible for 45 pst. of outpatient activities, there is a great deal of competence out there. There is a lot of good work done, and then it is also important that we make full use of the available capacity. The representative of Asphjell noted that there is no necessarily a link between increased waiting times and the capacity of the healthcare system. But the problem is that waiting time is also increasing. Even if we do. Today sees that there has not been the large, dramatic increase, this creeps slowly, but surely upward. And that's also a problem, because it shows that this is propagating. We're going to take that seriously. There is also reason to believe that there is a certain link between increased payments of sick pay and the fact that the queues in the healthcare system are getting longer. I think it's completely impossible to explain away. What I look forward to most is the Council of State's response to the challenge of the Representative for Wage in terms of specialist training in this country. So I have a hard time looking forward to that answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2754	I think it's a very polite and interesting debate, and I should have liked to have spent a long time answering a lot of good questions, including: the representative's remuneration for specialist health training. I'm looking at that question right now. I can't go into that whole reasoning here and now, but I can promise that I won't conclude in that area until I, among other things, has been in close contact with both Mr Wohnning and Mr Nesvik. I'm going to have good processes in Stortinget before any conclusions are drawn. So I just want to say that I don't think you can take the list of speakers in this interview debate as an expression, a measuring instrument, for the government's involvement in the matter of contract specialists. At least I can assure you that I am very concerned about this question. I see how important it is that we make this system work well, if we're to avoid what Nesvik describes as well in his final post, that's a negative trend in waiting times. It will of course worry me and everyone else. There is no doubt that the contract specialists are a very important piece to deal with that challenge. I think the new system will allow us to set completely different types of requirements for regional health companies to have control of waiting lists. The new system goes, for example: the transfer of financing of contract specialists from social security to ISF. Regional health establishments will receive ISF based on the tasks performed by the contract specialists. The payment to the individual contract specialist needs to be detailed more than ISF, because ISF is becoming general. But then, as both the State Council and the head of the Health and Social Committee, I can go in and look at how many ISF are produced by the contract specialists? How many ISF are produced in the health region of the health region concerned by its own outpatient clinics? How is the productivity of own outpatient clinics versus the productivity of contract specialists? If you get waiting list and queue problems, as a government council, I'll be able to challenge the regional health company much more clearly that here you have obviously contract specialists who are more productive than their own outpatient clinics are. Then you have to do one or two in relation to the developments you now have in waiting lists. It's either getting their own outpatient clinics more effective, or setting up more contract specialists, because we can't live with developments in e.g. waiting lists. I think a lot of the exposure from the opposition parties to this question is the same commitment that I have. I think it's possible to process this system, so you get more efficiency and more use of contract specialists.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2765	The debate on substance is closed. 10 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2781	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 915]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2797	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 915]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2813	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that the speakers who would have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2822	I am delighted to present the position of the Business Committee on the consent to the ratification of ILO Convention No. 186 of 23 February 2006 on the living and working conditions of seafarers. It is an important matter – and should be a curative matter for Stortinget. The Convention is good to read and is well-balanced and, in our opinion, it provides a balanced and good result for Norway. Regulations in international shipping are important for regulating the working and living conditions of seafarers, not least because this Convention replaces 68 former ILO Conventions and Recommendations, which are partly out of date and partly obsolete. It's important in the fight against social dumping, it's important in order to put in place a common and good working environment, and I also want to add that it's important for the ordinary environment around the world, just because that's all right, other issues related to the ship and shipping will probably also be in order. The Convention establishes a supervisory authority of the port State, certificates to be issued by the flag State and the Convention is drawn up in close cooperation with the industry. Then the Convention does not enter into force until it has been ratified by a sufficient number of countries with an adequate share of gross tons of ships and boats behind them. It puts the Progress Party's position on this matter in a somewhat strange light, because it recommends a postponement of ratification to everyone else. I think that had everyone thought of that way, no ratification would ever take place. There are some people who have to take the first step. I think it is important for Norwegian shipping and for Norway to be far ahead of standard marking in these fields. In any case, we should not compete in Norway – and at least in Norwegian shipping – because we are the worst in the class of work environment or in other forms of environment. We're going to compete in this area as in other areas because we're the best, and because we're doing our homework thoroughly. That is why I am delighted to recommend this ratification, and I hope for as much excitement as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2840	Knowing that we are coming back to the concreteisation of this convention at Odelstingen's meeting later today, I would like briefly just to point out Norway's international obligations as a maritime nation. ILO Convention No In fact, 186 on the living and working conditions of seafarers is of greater importance outside Norway than in Norway. And when we, as the first of the major western shipping nations, ratify the Convention, it is, of course, an expression of our ambition to be a leading shipping nation, while solidarity with seafarers around the world and with all those who are far from experiencing the conditions and working conditions that Norwegian seafarers can benefit from. Equally full, it is also in our own interest that the living and working conditions of seafarers are raised to decent levels. Hardly any field of activity has been characterised to the extent of social dumping as a seafarer's profession. It is therefore necessary to establish international agreements setting standards for the rights of workers and the working environment. And I'm glad that Norway, i.e. governments and social partners play an active role in the ILO. In this case it applies to the shipping industry and to the maritime organisations. This Convention covers all essential aspects of the working and living conditions of ships — from the minimum age, health requirements, employment conditions, pay, return journeys, holidays and working environment to welfare schemes. However, the new is that all ships of more than 500 tonnes engaged on international voyages between two foreign ports shall hold a separate certificate proving that the flag State has controlled and found the ship's labour and living conditions in accordance with the requirements of the Convention. Thus, flag States are entrusted with oversight responsibilities. I have noticed in particular that ships from countries which have not ratified the Convention are to be treated in the same way as ships from nations which have ratified the Convention. In other words, the rights and social conditions of seafarers shall not constitute a competitive element between the nations. Such provisions also exist in other conventions on safety and environmental pollution at sea. It is good that the living and working conditions of seafarers are more and more balanced between nations and that international control mechanisms are established. I can't exactly say that the rear-facing behaviour of the Progress Party on the occasion of the case surprises me. The party of progress is still cultivating free and unimpeded competition. It is this idolatry that makes President Bush appear to be the purest socialist, and Norway as a communist society. That is why the Progress Party believes that we should not ratify this Convention. We should wait – at least until all other European countries have ratified it. The party fears that if Norway goes ahead, it can impose a competitive disadvantage on us. If everyone thinks like the Advance Party, no convention will ever be ratified. In the Progress Party country, Norway will never go ahead in any area that can improve the working and living conditions of workers. I have confidence, of course, that the mariners' organizations are aware of this very thing, although this is really just a cover for the actual views of the Progress Party, in which they raise serious doubts about the content of the Convention. But that's what we're going to come back to later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2857	The President would point out that she does not like the word "retro-German" to be used in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2860	I will explain the point of view of the Advance Party in this matter. Now it's not like we're against this convention. As the proposal also shows, we are asking for a postponement of its ratification. I'll give you a brief reason for that. The other representatives who have been up before me have given a technical review of the matter. I'm not going to do that, I'm going to deal with what's political here. It is quite right, as has also been said, that there are very few countries that have ratified the Convention. The EU is working on a common strategy for implementation, and we believe that since the shipping industry is one of Norway's most important industries, we need to ensure that the shipping industry has good competitive conditions. What we are afraid of in this matter is that, after being the first and best, we should introduce some strange rules. We've seen what this government has done to the Norwegian shipping industry in the past. Last year, a claim for a refund of taxes was made that affects the industry hard, so we do not have so much faith that we are able to take care of the business interests that exist in this case. We have also noticed the objections and observations that have come from the industry and from the organisations in this matter. It is a bit special to read some of the hearing opinions, especially from the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion, which in its opinion ask questions about the consequences of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade's proposal for identical shipwrecks in the Safety Act and the Maritime Law are sufficiently well investigated. In other words, the Departments make different assessments, and the Government makes a proposition that concludes with one department, but with the other department. I expect the Council of State in its statement to clarify that very assessment. We also notice that many of the associations that have made recordings here are critical of the way this is done. They are critical to the speed of this and fear that this could lead to a competitive disadvantage for Norwegian shipping industry and Norwegian conditions. That's why we want to postpone the ratification of the Convention, to see what other countries are doing about it. With that, I take up the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2873	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2876	I am pleased that the majority of the Committee, with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, supports the proposal that the Maritime Labour Convention be ratified. It's a proposal that the entire government is behind. This Convention has also been developed in close cooperation with the partners in the industry, and will – as has been said here – establish a new global and binding legislation. This Convention covers, as we see it, all the essential aspects of working and living conditions on ships, such as: requirements for the working environment and social security and welfare systems. The most important of the new features of the Convention is that all ships of more than 500 gross tonnage engaged on international voyages, or between two foreign ports, shall hold a certificate demonstrating that the flag State is in favour of compliance with the working and living conditions on board with this Convention. In this way, this Convention will inter alia: be an important contribution to limiting social dumping. Norwegian legislation complies as known in substance with the provisions of the Convention. However, implementation of the Convention requires certain changes in Norwegian legislation, as explained in the odelstingsproposition that we are going to deal with later here today. I note that the members of the Progress Party will postpone ratification of the Convention, inter alia. on the grounds that many countries have not ratified it. To that is to say that it is right that the convention pro. in mid-November were ratified by Liberia, the Marshall Islands and the Bahamas, but it is known as important, open and large flag States. In addition, it is expected to be ratified by most EU countries by 2010. In addition, the social partners at EU level have now also negotiated an agreement on the implementation of the content of the Convention with a view to making it an obligation for Member States by means of an EU Directive. The European Commission adopted a proposal for such a Council Directive on 2 July this year. That the EU is working on a common strategy is therefore not, as we see it, an argument against ratifying the Convention now. As I said, this Convention has been drawn up in close cooperation with those concerned. It is not the government's intention to introduce anti-competitive measures for industry in the event of ratification. A provision of the Convention also states that no more favourable treatment should be given to ships from countries which have not ratified the Convention. It is important to ensure competitiveness. Norway has been a driver to ensure better working conditions for seafarers from all over the world. If we are to develop further and maintain a safe and viable shipping industry, it is vital, as we see it, that seafarers are given good working and living conditions. The Convention on the Living and Working Conditions of Seafarers provides necessary and fair rights for seafarers and a system of supervision which also ensures them.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2891	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2894	I just want to make it clear that the Right also supports the ratification of this ILO Convention, and that the Right in the Government was working on this matter. It is important that Norway, as one of the major shipping nations in the world, contributes to rapid improvement and standard raising in relation to labour-environment rights. However, there is another issue that is important for the working environment of Norwegian and international ships and for the environment in general, and which Norway is trying to influence positively in terms of shipping. This concerns the standard of fleet and environmental characteristics, which are affected by the investment opportunities of the shipping industry. Now we have had a transitional arrangement for new shipping tax that led to a withdrawal of up to NOK 21 billion of equity in Norwegian shipping companies, and we are in the midst of a financial crisis that considerably weakens the soundness of the industry. Does the Council of State see that the combination of financial crisis and transitional arrangements in the shipping tax, including environmental funds, also affect the environmental and work environment situation on board Norwegian ships?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2902	Firstly, I am pleased that the Right supports the proposal made by the Government in this matter. So I can immediately say that there is no doubt that the financial crisis that we are now in, that has also turned in quite strongly with us, and that is probably going to do it in the future, also challenges parts of the industry that we are now talking about. We're probably very aware of that. I do not fully share the description of reality that Torbjørn Hansen came with in the history, but now leave it. We now have a process in ESA regarding the shipping tax system. That's what we're coming back to Stortinget with, of course. And as far as the environment is concerned, I think we have a very good dialogue with the industry in that area. I believe that if we manage to do even more in that area of this industry, it will make a difference in view of the challenges we face in the future in the climate field. That is why I believe that the important common job we are doing, among other things. through the IMO, is an important pre-miss provider in order to achieve something that stands out in relation to the environmental and climate challenges. I therefore look forward to working with the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2911	Several have not asked for the word in reply to the question. 13th@item: inlistbox The President then asks the Stortinge to take a little break, while we wait for the Minister of Finance. [[See page 915]] The meeting was cancelled at 9.00 p.m. Twenty-seventh. The meeting continued its negotiations at 9.30 a.m. 20.19.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2922	Then Stortinget started with case no. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2938	The large petroleum revenues put Norway in a unique position. We can ensure the well-being and build the country, and we have revenues to provide security for pensions, both for today's and for tomorrow's pensioners. If we're to succeed, it assumes that we both have the power to save money for tomorrow's pensioners, and that the money spent is invested in activities that build up under value creation for tomorrow's well-being. This is important because, as Norway has done, there is hardly one example of land through world history that has rapidly reached high incomes, which has not used up the money and put the rest of the economy on the line. We've given ourselves two tools to deal with the big incomes. One is the rule of action, which shall limit the annual use of oil revenues. The second is the Pension Fund, which is going to manage what is being saved, to the joy of tomorrow's pensioners, but I also want to add, tomorrow's taxpayers, because if there is not enough savings, the tax burden on tomorrow's working people will be even higher. So far, we've managed to spend money on the pension fund. I believe that the broad majority in the Grand Duchy should be proud of that. It's about taking responsibility for those who come after us. For the past ten years, the oil price has fluctuated from down to $5 the barrel to up to $150 the barrel. Now it's at the base of the $50 barrel. That means dramatic fluctuations in income. Economic policy cannot, of course, swing like a yes; it must be predictable. Long-termity is not always as sought in politics, but political leadership is about thinking in the future. But this only lasts as long as there is a political majority who have a vote in favour of such a policy. When the rule of action was adopted, it was agreed that every year it would be used around what corresponds to the real return of what we now call the pension fund. For 2009, it equals over 90 billion kroner or about the same thing that we spend in our hospitals. Of course, the use needs to be adapted to the situation in the economy, i.e. that in time rises, less should be used to help mitigate the pressures in the economy, while in times of recession more can be used, as we do, among other things. in the Centre — The Right-Registration in 2002 and 2003. This interpellation is not primarily about how much oil money is to be used. This interpellation has traveled to focus on what we're going to use the extra revenue for. Sustainable use of oil revenue is not only about how much is spent, but also about how money is spent. When the code of action was adopted in 2001, both government and government were concerned about this issue. The then Stoltenberg government wrote in St.meld. No 29 for 2000-2001: ‘The Government therefore attaches considerable importance to the use of the space for action to increase the use of oil revenues in a way that will also enhance the growth capacity of the Norwegian economy. Lower taxes and taxes can improve working conditions for business to enhance competitiveness. Similarly, actions for improved infrastructure, as well as actions to generate new knowledge through research and development, will contribute to enhancing growth capacity.’.» This was reinforced in Stortinget, with the support of all parties with the exception of SV and the Advance Party. In other words, there was agreement that the oil money was to be used to lower taxes and taxes and to invest in knowledge, research and infrastructure. At that time, the Workers' Party was also subject to tax reductions, not only for one year but as a permanent premise for the use of oil revenues. I understand that the red-green parties today are not as enthusiastic about reducing taxes on jobs and on ordinary employee income, but also the left side should see the value of a balance between the public and private sectors. If all the oil money is used to increase public operating budgets, private sector and competitive enterprises will weaken their operating space. It will over time weaken our ability to secure and extend well-being. If the oil money had been spent after the intention, we would have a unique opportunity to create a knowledge society with good schools and excellent knowledge institutions, and we could have been in the top of the world in far more areas of research and technological development than we are. Instead, in the last three years, the fight has focused on relieving red-green resting areas in higher education and research. Had the intention of the rule of action been followed, we would have come much further into building a satisfactory infrastructure in Norway, with good roads and public transport, and through this would have been better equipped to ensure well-being. It may seem that the red-green government has left the consensus that the oil money will be used to invest in infrastructure and knowledge. The fact that the red-greens will not lower taxes has brought most of us, but also in terms of knowledge and infrastructure, this government has failed. It weakens our ability to face worse times and to bear future well-being. It obviously plays a role who controls. According to a recently published NHO analysis, the Centre – Right-Registration nearly 9 out of 10 DKK in increased operating space from the increase in the pension fund and economic growth to invest in knowledge and infrastructure and to provide tax relief for business and individuals. It facilitated good times and increased tax revenues for both the State and the municipality. According to the same report, the red-greens have used at the top of 15 pst. of its increased space for action on knowledge and infrastructure. There has been a marked growth in public expenditure, but they have not gone into growth-promoting measures. It should be a great paradox for the red-green government to enter the last year of government with a record long list of lifting breaks while failing in relation to long-term investments. The government is in a self-inflicted crisis of expectation. Poverty is not eradicated, care for the elderly does not shine, the local economy is tight, and the focus on higher education and research was no more than to correct own cuts from previous years. The government has lacked neither money nor willingness to spend money. The problem is that everything has been measured in money and not in results. Everything has to be solved with more money, not new solutions. As a result, the increase in costs has eaten up the increased appropriations. An example of this is the transport sector, where more money is correctly allocated than four years ago, but because of the increase in costs, less is now being built than under the civil government. My point is this: we need a debate on how we can get more out of the money we have at our disposal. The answer is not always more money, it can also be new solutions. It is not the level of appropriations but the results that are crucial. Without such a debate, the demand to use more and more of our petroleum revenues will only increase in strength. My second point, and here I come to the question in the interpellation, is: Does the Government have a different understanding of the 2001 agreement on how to use oil money, or has the Government deliberately chosen to break the agreement on investing in knowledge and infrastructure and lowering taxes on businesses and jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e2983	Developments in the Norwegian economy have been very good compared to developments in most other Western countries in the last 15–20 years. Private sector productivity has increased rapidly, including in the absence of oil. This suggests that Norway is a good country to operate in. We do not compete at the lowest possible level of taxes and charges, or low wages. On the other hand, we have a well-driven society, a high level of competence, good welfare systems and stable framework conditions. This will also be the main basis for income and welfare in the future. The Nordic welfare model of tax-funded universal welfare services, relatively small wage differences and widespread cooperation between social partners has proved effective, both in terms of distribution and in terms of productivity and flexibility. The Government of Stoltenberg I presented the action rule in 2001. During the discussion in the Grand Duchy, the entire Financial Committee joined the main economic policy objectives of the Stoltenberg Government, namely work for all, fair distribution, further development of the Norwegian welfare community, and sustainable development. These are important objectives, which this government is also behind. Both in the Stoltenberg Government’s big announcement, in the position of the Financial Committee and in the subsequent Stortingen debate, it was stressed that the increased use of oil revenues should be applied in a way that increases the growth capacity of the Norwegian economy. In this context, infrastructure, research and tax reductions were highlighted, but were not emphasised as the only means of ensuring the growth capacity of the Norwegian economy, because this cannot be detached from its context. In the same section, the government of Stoltenberg I pointed out that there is the size and use of the workforce and other resources that are most important to economic growth. A large and productive workforce must be supported by policies for employment, inclusion and good solutions for kindergartens, education, prevention and health. The high level of professional participation in Norway must be seen in the context of public service provision. Good Community solutions for families with children, such as parental leave, statutory entitlement to kindergarten and flexible working hours, enable both women and men to maintain links with the labour market when they have children. In this area, Norway is much better off than most other countries. A well-functioning high-value economy depends on the availability of labour that is adapted to the needs of businesses and society elsewhere. The development of a well-qualified workforce is already under way in kindergarten. It's not without reason that this government has placed the nursery bet under the Ministry of Knowledge – that's because we learn most when we're younger, and because we know that kindergarten experience provides a better basis for schooling later. In addition to the historical investment in kindergartens, we also increase efforts in early school years. The school shall be the place where children and young people are seen, mastery and develop their abilities with others. There are several perspectives of the pediatric effort undertaken by the Government. It is also the perspective that kindergarten schooling has enabled more young children’s parents to get into work. It has been important for the growth capacity of a society in the period we have behind us, where lack of skilled labour has been a major challenge for the public sector, but not least for private enterprises. So it's important for growth ability to bet on kindergartens. School depends on good and motivated teachers. The teacher is the most important asset manager we have. The government facilitates a great commitment to teachers through continuing training, the recruitment of teachers and the recruitment of teachers. It is to bet on knowledge, both today and in the future. We're preparing for today's children to take up colleges and universities in a few years' time, but we're also investing in higher education today. The university and higher education sectors are strongly strengthened in the 2009 budget, and when we look together in the context of this four-year period up against the previous four-year period, we have focused more on research and higher education than the previous government has done. It is both a prerequisite and an instrument for meeting the major challenges for the future. When the oil age is over, it's our common work effort that determines what we're going to live on, and the quality of public welfare. So the answer is yes. We use the oil revenue space to strengthen knowledge, but in a broad sense. The government is also betting on transportation. In the opposition, today’s government parties contributed to an increase in the level of ambition of appropriations for the transport sector by a total of DKK 2 billion per year. years. As the first government, we have followed up the overall financial framework of the national transport plan, and the 2009 budget means that our own high ambitions will be exceeded by SEK 1.9 billion when we see the four-year period as a whole. The management of labour is essential for our future well-being. In recent years, we have had very low unemployment and record employment. The financial crisis and worse times mean that we have to expect some increase in unemployment, but we have good conditions for keeping high employment and low unemployment. We have an efficient and flexible economy. We have a well-developed public sector. Unlike the Bondevik II Government, this government budgets for the growth of activity in health enterprises. We've been giving priority to the municipalities throughout this period. There are over 490,000 employees in the municipalities, almost 45 000 more than when we took over three years ago. Over the last three years before we took over, employment in the municipal sector was almost at rest on the ground. There are many major investments on the transport side and in the construction sector in the 2009 budget. And that's the representative, Sanner, well-known. The budget was discussed at the latest last week. In addition, we have notified that there will be new measures in the month-end of January/February. We have used tax policy to create a system that promotes good economic decisions about production, labour and the protection of natural and environmental resources. The taxation system shall also contribute to a fair distribution. It is a key objective of the economic policy which the entire Financial Committee set itself behind in 2001. This government put an end to a further fall in the level of taxes and taxes, and has thus been able to use more to further develop the Norwegian welfare community when we are committed to well-being, education, transport and research. We have implemented important measures for sustainable development by investing heavily in CO2 clean-up and conservation of the rainforest. We have also put the charging system in an environmentally friendly direction. The action area of budgetary policy should not be earmarked for a few demarcated areas, as Mr Sanner seems to think. Our future capacity for growth depends on the development of our entire social model. It requires willingness to make the right priorities in the budget. I can't understand why school, child protection, health and care should be less important investments for the future or for growth than the roads, research and tax havens are. We prioritise knowledge from kindergarten to research. Many still live in that misguided experience and believe that oil and gas are our most important asset. It's not like that. It's people who are our most important asset. Fortunately, we learn all our lives, but we learn most when we are younger. We prioritise transportation, we strengthen the municipalities, and at the same time we redistribute through the tax system. We are showing international solidarity, and there is nothing less important in these financial crisis times, when we've come up in 1 pst. of GNI for assistance. We prioritise environment through money to protect rainforests, research, public transport, nature protection, renewable energy and energy efficiency. In this way, the government’s economic policy facilitates increased value creation and prosperity in sustainable development.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e3018	This interpellance must either have been exceptionally poorly formulated, or the Minister of Finance must have deliberately tried to misunderstand. This was not an invitation for the Minister of Finance to come with his showcasing album, it was an invitation to a debate on how oil money should be used in relation to the assumptions that the Stoltenberg I government made, and to which the Stortinget then joined. When the finance minister says she doesn't understand why this is so important, it might be because the Socialist Left was opposed to the assumptions of a broad majority, including the Center Party and the Workers' Party, at the time. If we look at the three areas where the Workers' Party was also involved in reducing taxes in order to stimulate value creation and safe jobs, this government has increased the tax level of businesses by over 10 billion kroner since 2005. We know that the tax burden can be borne by businesses when it goes well, but it is not that easy when things go bad, as we assume it will now do in 2009. The Minister of Finance still expects applause for investing in universities, colleges and research – after cutting first in the university and higher education sectors, applause is expected when putting some of the money back, while establishing a new cutting by not compensating for the rise in wages and prices. And in the case of roads, I was thoroughly involved in my post. Yes, it is true that more money is granted, but less is being built. That is what is the problem of a government that measures all the results in granting more money. There is no one who disagrees that it is important to bet on kindergartens, but the Minister of Finance has a budget of DKK 800-900 billion that she can invest in and that can be used to strengthen the well-being of Norway. This is how we are going to use the additional revenues that petroleum revenues give us – whether they are going to go only into a large hole, whether they are going to be used to enhance the growth capacity of the economy, or whether they are going to be used to focus on knowledge, research, infrastructure and tax relief. If it had been so that this government had been committed to strengthening growth in other areas, perhaps the finance minister's reasoning could be understood. The truth is that the modernisation of the public sector has been stopped. Key elements of competition policy have been reversed. This makes us feel worse when we now go into a recession. It weakens our ability to bear future welfare. To be quite specific, is it that the Minister of Finance and the Government has now defined themselves away from what was the prerequisites of 2001, or is it such that, in relation to that bet, a long break has been taken, but that one promises to come back to the intention of the next period if one should be so fortunate, from the side of the government parties, that one returns to the government position?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e3035	Let me read it as the majority of the Committee on Finance, part of the Committee, said: ‘The majority therefore believe that an increase in the use of petroleum revenues should be targeted at measures that can increase productivity and thus increase the growth capacity of the rest of the economy.’ It was the Workers' Party, the Right, the Left, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Coastal Party who wrote. Then the entire committee wrote: ‘The Committee would point out that fiscal policy and investment in infrastructure, education and research are important for the better functioning of the economy.’ We have those words in full. But it doesn't say it's just that. It is also not defined that education is higher education or only school. I don't know what the representative Sanner is talking about when he says that this government has thrown money into a big black hole. It must be the kindergarten bet then, which is a big black hole and not bet on knowledge. We have a completely different view of what is knowledge. I believe that the kindergarten reform, which has been very high priority of this government, is an intense commitment to knowledge. It has been important for the growth capacity of the Norwegian economy. It has been incredibly important for how we have been able to exploit our workforce. It is fully within that as the majority and, in part, the entire committee, when they dealt with the rule of action. If the Right has a different vision of knowledge, I think it's very interesting to get this out today. If the Right has the knowledge that knowledge is just something you acquire after you turn 20, we have a little different knowledge and a little different human vision. So to this error, our government over these four years has had a completely different economic freedom from that of the previous government. No, in the context of the financial position and the financial debate, we went through what we have had of economic space, what we have had of growth for distribution for various good purposes. What turns out is that that space of action has been roughly the same, over a four-year period between $65 billion and $70 billion for both periods of government. The Bondevik government spent between 25 billion dollars and 30 billion dollars of that tax haven. We stand firmly behind the fact that we have not prioritised tax credits. We have said that we were going back to the 2004 level, for fiscal policy, as described in the comments on the rule of action, is not just about tax relief. It is also about setting up fiscal policies, so that they strengthen growth and do not hinder growth. Therefore, the redistribution that this government has made over four years, and the effort we have had to turn into a more green tax regime, is very important for growth capacity, and it is important for sustainable development in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e3063	The representative, Jan Tore Sanner, expresses in his interpellation to the Minister for Finance the concern about how the rule of action is applied. When discussing the rule of action, it is important to remember that the rule is not an end in itself, but a means of achieving overall policy objectives. The main objectives of the government's economic policy are work for everyone and fair distribution, both in today's society and between generations. At the same time, we want policy to contribute to the further development of the Norwegian welfare society and that this development is sustainable. The fact that we have found oil and gas off the coast has made us richer as a nation and helps us spend more money every year. The rule of action says something about how much extra money we can spend. The rule takes account of intergenerational fairness. At the same time, the rule of action is so flexible that it can contribute to stabilising economic development. What the rule of action does not say is how to use the increased revenue. It is determined by policy priorities and balances in the annual budgets. The revenues from the petroleum sector are included in the budget in line with all other revenues, such as: VAT and income taxes. So there's no hint of what the crowns are for. The comment in the setting of St.meld. No 29 for 2000-2001, as the majority of the Committee on Finance therefore needs to be understood as meaning that it is important to align government budgets so that growth in the rest of the economy, and not just in the petroleum sector, is good. The Committee further points to fiscal policy, infrastructure and research and education as important areas. In my opinion, it will always be important to focus on measures that contribute to good growth performance in the economy, regardless of oil revenues. It is the growth of the mainland economy that determines the welfare development in Norway. No matter how oil prices and production develop, the value creation in mainland Norway will be much higher than the revenues from the petroleum sector. There are many factors and conditions that help to determine the growth capacity of a country. Sometimes it is produced as if there is a conflict between growth and fair distribution. In my opinion, we have, and a lot of other countries, shown that this is not necessarily true. Therefore, I do not buy Right-wing argument that tax credits that benefit particularly groups of high incomes and large wealth are necessary for growth and well-being. We have high productivity growth in Norway today. The red-green government has invested in areas that we believe are important. Knowledge, research and transport are some of the areas for which much money has been allocated — other areas are hospitals, care for the elderly, culture and not least kindergartens. It is not possible to define any areas as growth-promoting, while others as growth-retardant. The fact that people who are ill can be treated, that older people can get a decent old age, and that children have a good and safe everyday life also helps to make our society comfortable to live in, while helping to increase access to labour and thus increase the growth capacity of the economy. I have noticed that the majority of the committees mentioned tax policy, and not tax relief, in their comments. Over the period 2001–2005, many billions of dollars were given in tax credits. The Stoltenberg I government was involved in some of these reliefs. When the red-green government took over in 2005, government parties agreed that the tax level should remain unchanged during the default period at the same level as in 2004. This has been followed up in all budgets. Nevertheless, many tax changes have been made in recent years. The structure of the tax system is as important as the level of taxation of the functioning and growth of the economy. For example, reducing taxes to low wages is more effective in terms of labour supply than those with very high incomes. Furthermore, the proper and fair valuation of property is important for whether reasonable investments are made. I'm not going to go into NHO's operations, because they have a lot to put on. A simpler and more correct method of comparing the two grossing-up periods would be to compare the appropriations directly. Then it becomes clear that the red-green government has granted more to infrastructure, education and research than to the civil government. I can therefore not see that the representative Jan Tore Sanner has any reason to worry about how the increased room for action that the rule of action provides will be used in the future, at least not if the red-green government regains confidence in the next elections. Then the representative Jan Tore Sanner can sleep safely at night.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e3089	The Progress Party wants a policy that facilitates growth. We believe it is very important for Norway to maintain its competitiveness, and we believe that fiscal policy is an important tool to achieve this. The interpellant is therefore raising a very important debate, namely on how the state budget should be set up. The Progress Party considers that a pension fund should primarily have the task of financing pensions and not be a fund for financing general welfare. We have therefore proposed the constitutional confirmation that the State pension fund will help to secure current and tomorrow's pensions. This will release pension payments that are currently made on a current basis above the government budget. As the majority do not want such a guarantee of our future pensions, the Progress Party chose to oppose the transfer of the State Petroleum Fund to the State pension fund because the changes were in reality only a name reform. The change in the name also led to the use of the estimated return on the State pension fund being renamed into the action rule for the use of pension funds. The party of progress is opposed to the rule of action, and in practical policy it has been shown that the same is true of the other parties on the Stortinget. In fact, the Progress Party in some alternative budgets has been closer to the estimated return of 4 pst. by the pension fund than has been done by the declared beneficiaries of the action rule. The majority opinion of the Committee on Economic Policy Guidelines 2000-2001 states that: ‘The use of petroleum revenues should be targeted at measures that can increase productivity, and hence growth capacity, in the rest of the economy’. The Progress Party was not part of this majority, not because we do not agree that measures that increase productivity are important, but because we do not initially find any basis for treating a tax crown from the petroleum sector differently than a tax crown from other activities. We believe that these areas should have a focus regardless of whether the funds used can be directly linked to the revenue from the oil and gas activities. However, the progress batch joined the note below in that position, where it reads: ‘The Committee would point out that fiscal policy and investment in infrastructure, education and research are important in order to improve the functioning of the economy.’ Furthermore, the Committee stressed that the petroleum assets and revenues must not be used as an ‘excusable excuse for not undertaking the necessary system reforms’. Unfortunately, that is exactly what has happened. The expenditure side of the State budget has been estimated, while the investment performance is mediocre. This applies not least to the areas of transport, research and education, and not to the tax burden, which has moved in an aggravating direction. Against this background, the Progress Party believes that we need an alternative action rule that limits how much can be used for consumption and how much is used to increase productivity in the economy. We therefore want to go away from today's one-sided focus on how much money can be spent, and take more into account how the money is spent. We therefore want to distinguish between money for consumption and money spent on investments. We want to limit the current expenditure, so that these coincide with the economic growth we as a nation are able to create. We therefore want public consumption growth to be reflected in Norway’s economic growth. If we are capable of creating economic growth over time, this will be reflected in the level of public welfare of the nation. In other words, we do not want to grant ourselves benefits that cannot be defended by our incomes. In the case of investment, it appears differently. Investments are made primarily to generate future growth. It is expenditure on the acquisition of income. This relates primarily to investment in new infrastructure and is initially one-off costs that will create opportunities for better profitability in business and a more rational public sector. A minimum tax level is a matter of course in such a process. There is no point in creating an artificial distinction between money spent on the State budget because of the estimated return of the pension fund and the other money of the State budget. The further debate should focus on how the entire expenditure side of the State budget is structured. With an increasing proportion of the population on social security, a record high immigration of people with little or no education, a record large government with three levels and 434 municipalities combined with low school knowledge dissemination, there is much evidence that the expenditure side of the government budget is not sustainable over time. However, I encourage the interpellant to seek cooperation with the parties that recognize and admit this, instead of discussing these issues with the parties that want even greater public sector, and who believe that growth capacity is ensured through free kindergarten. The councils, however, stressed that we are learning all our lives – so there is a certain hope!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e3121	It shall be strong back to bear good times. The Norwegian economy has had historically good times. There has been an adventurous growth in tax revenue to the country. This government has DKK 185 billion to go with this year compared to Bondevik II in 2005. The dynamic tax policy with growth-enhancing tax reliefs that today's government likes to despise has really given good returns to this government. But has the red-green government had its back to carry this? In research and higher education, little has been seen in the efforts that the rule of action actually made. While the Bondevik II government, despite a difficult economic period, prioritised the full funding of the Quality Reform, with the sitting government we first experienced Djupedal’s ‘sleeping shear’, and when it was reversed, a new one emerged. During this entire government period, the cost adjustments in the budget have been significant in the real cost evolution of the sector. It has created a new cutting edge, and the atmosphere in the university and higher education sectors is at a low level. So that the Council of State can claim that the bet is fully retained, is a mystery to me. It is thoughtful that today's government, as the Soria Moria statement says, should increase the investment in the sector, has not given priority to doing so. In 2005, the Stortinget set a target that Norwegian research effort should be 3 pst. of GDP in 2010 – 2 pst. in business and 1 pst. in the public domain. We have not reached this goal of this government. Instead, we have experienced many creative explanations as to why it is so difficult to achieve the goal as the economy grows rapidly. A strange link is that a strong increase in economic freedom has made it more difficult to prioritise research and investment for the future. Now the economic development is turning around. Then there would be a golden opportunity to take a force to reach the goal. But now it's hard because times are tough. In particular, around one third of the industry's share is marked according to the objective. Research shows that the social return on research is far higher than the purely business-economy return. Government schemes to compensate for the fact that enterprises will research less than the profitability of society. It is also an undeniable fact that the smaller the enterprise, the greater the risk associated with its own research activity. Nevertheless, the red-green government has tightened up the tax FUNN and the starvation feed has targeted and results-oriented nutrient-oriented research programmes such as the BIA, the User-led Innovation Arena. This illustrates the problem of today's government. It wants jobs, but it doesn't want anyone to make money or keep equity. Nor will there be much development of jobs over time. It wants to have research, and it talks about the knowledge society and that Norwegian business needs to become more knowledge-based in the future, but it will not use instruments that reach those that need to be stimulated. Here it actually has to be a little bit grand and a little bit more liberal. It has to be tolerated that someone might also succeed so well that they could make a little profit from it. It is part of creating a good foundation for the jobs of the future. Liberality is absent in today's government. Instead, we have had endless debates about who grants the most for all good purposes, as the Council of State also suggests today. Any government will grant more than the previous government, because government budgets are increasing from year to year. It's a consequence of economic growth. But the interesting thing is how the economic space is used. The NHO report illustrates that the back wasn't strong enough to bear the growth and degrees of freedom the government got. Most of the increased space for action has disappeared to anything but investing in key growth impulses for Norway in the future — knowledge and research, transport and growth-promoting tax relief.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e3141	This could have been an exciting debate about how we manage a very special asset that Norway has been so lucky to share in, how we translate it into other, lasting values. Then others will assess whether we have received the debate that the interpellant had initially put up with – I'm a little doubtful. The debate on the rule of action in the years following that remark can easily get the impression that the rule of action was about avoiding the use of oil money in the budgets, but the situation is actually the opposite. The action rule was introduced to increase the use of oil money in the budgets. In this context, the majority stated that the increase should be directed towards measures that could increase productivity and growth capacity in the economy. The entire Committee pointed, as mentioned above, to fiscal policy and to the commitment to infrastructure, knowledge and research in areas that were important for sustainable and long-term stable development. To take tax policy first, it is well asked whether we had agreed on the same wording today. I have to say that the left-hand side of Norwegian policy in the last five years has thought that the level of taxation that today's rules entail is the only right thing. Every krone in net tax bill has been stamped ‘tax bill to the rich’. Assessments as to whether targeted relief would actually strengthen business and thus secure jobs have been rejected. It is not the Norwegian economy that has been governing – I think the care for peace and quiet in the red-green camp. Even now, when it is almost obvious that targeted measures are needed even in the tax area against business, we must therefore wait much longer than is necessary before, for example, we have to do so. may come back to proposals for increased depreciation rates. At the same time, there is reason to point out that the concept of fiscal policy is important for the development of the economy, not the same as saying that net large tax relief is correct, regardless of whether cyclical developments are good or bad. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we do not believe that strengthening a green tax reform will weaken Norwegian growth capacity. Lower taxes on labour, especially for low wages, lower taxes on value creation in business and greater emphasis on taxes on environmental emissions and consumption, believe that we are promoting both healthy economic and healthy ecological development. Both must be involved in talking about long-term sustainable development. If the current government really wanted to give priority to higher education and research, it could have done so. Instead, we have got this ping pong situation where you cut in the ordinary budget, come back in revised and put on new money to correct the cut from the past. Now we have had to learn that pension costs provide a real cut for higher education to the next year, despite a few new dollars in the balancing position. So this has been a priority area, I guess only the government parties have the boldness to say. I would also like to say that on the infrastructure side it is good to say that we have used so many dollars and so many dollars. The question is, as has been mentioned before, what effect have they had? We have to recognize that the growth of activity has been present, but has not resulted in as much in sum as the heads could actually say in nominal terms. The reality is that it is built less kilometers away, e.g. That's why there's still reason to think through how we use the oil wealth and transform it further. Pension reform can be a good starting point for how it is possible, across the board, to look at opportunities that create growth capacity in the long term. In fact, I don't think we're going to go beyond the rule-driven arrangements in the area of population protection if we're going to gradually prioritize what's creating growth in the Norwegian economy. Finally, I have to say it was interesting to hear about the view of kindergartens. It was almost so that this had become a production unit in the Norwegian business community. And if the parents who dare to be out of work for too long, they'll get it from this government. It's actually done by reducing parental leave for parents who do not have an independent right to work on fetal leave by two weeks. That is the greeting of this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e3158	It is a great canvas on the policy interpellant has invited us to an evening in early advent time. If someone had said -- let's now take a little while and discuss what we think is going to be discussed in the 2009 election year, I think this is a pretty good and used little hour. That's what it's going to be about next year. The issues that are being presented and leveled out in this debate, I think we're going to be going on for a whole year to come -- maybe not so very strange, because it'll be the debate on how the sitting government has used its incredible opportunities and its incredible revenues, how they have prioritised those opportunities and revenues. I probably belong to those who aren't so much concerned about running theological interpretation of a big decision in 2001, as if we're discussing what it's wise to do at any time. I am in opposition to the sitting government. That is why I believe that these are things that the sitting government has done and prioritised that I would like to see done differently. What I think we could have gathered about, when we have a discussion like this, is to conclude that there have been adventurous times the sitting majority government has been given the opportunity to rule the country. Firstly, we have had a record global growth, which has seemed incredibly favourable to Norway, because we have had very high commodity prices out, and we have had reasonable consumer goods into the country. In addition, this has been stimulated by fantastic domestic demand and high activity and low unemployment in the Norwegian economy. There is no doubt that the current government has been able to manage very large revenues. If a rain on gross income, the revenue has increased by over NOK 200 billion over the current government period. But that is also the case, as the Minister of Finance has repeatedly said from this pulpit, that it is not 200 billion kroner the government has been able to use, but they have been partly corrected away, because we are trying to distinguish between good times and bad times when we pick out the policy. But it is probably also right to say – and I must say that I have followed closely through these years – that this government has had a greater political space than any government before, and has had an opportunity to spend more money and have more money than any government has ever done in history. That's why sometimes it gets a little weird when the government of this pulpit makes it their big point that it's spent more money. Of course it has spent more money – in all areas! Something else should be subject to the penal code – and nobody wants to be involved in this! But it also happens that we have a few years behind us when costs have been running fairly smoothly in the Norwegian economy. We have not only become the world's best country to live in in terms of income, but we have probably also become the world's most expensive country to live in. An illustration of how good times we have is the new aging that passed the Council of State on Friday, where we see that there is not so much oil revenue we use in the Norwegian economy. It's so good for the mainland economy in Norway that we don't use much of the oil revenue when we settle the bill. It tells us that we should not have a one-sided focus on the fact that there is oil – the oil industry and the oil economy – that makes us have such good times in Norway. We also have the world's best continental industry, which has an adventurous productivity growth, and which has made this country very good without the oil revenues, the rules of action and the oil economy. I think that maybe we should be more plentiful than tripping over treasure chests just off our coast. I think it's worth remembering what the governor said in a hearing with the finance committee in ours, where he talked a little about this and made us remember that Norway was doing very well independently of the oil economy. He said Norway has had an adventurous productivity growth from the 1990s and beyond. Our business life uses new technology, IT technology and organizes itself more efficiently than any other business. That's why we're doing so well. In addition, we have been so lucky to stumble over these huge oil revenues, which we can essentially save, but which we can use a little bit of, which is kind of the dot over the i, and which allows us to discuss even more policies in this room. But I also want to say in this context that the same governor also said that the problem has been the absence of productivity growth in the public sector in recent years. This is perhaps the biggest criticism, that the large oil revenues have caused us to relax a little too much in terms of improving the efficiency of the public sector under this government. It's going to turn pretty ugly on us as we now go into tougher times, and had needed to be able to housekeepers better with costs. Then I would say a lot neatly about research, as the most sensible thing we would have done, but I'm absolutely sure it'll take occasions through the election year to talk about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e3176	When you hear the debate, there's something that tells me that maybe it shouldn't have been eight years before you discussed what you really meant in 2000. Because what most people have built on is that the extra space for action that was created by the use of oil wealth was to be used for knowledge, research, transport and tax relief, and some of the background to that discussion is, of course, the study by the NHO that is based on this understanding, an understanding that I now understand about the Minister of Finance is a misunderstanding. The reason why it may not have happened before, must be that during the previous government period it was not relevant to discuss it, because then you fulfilled what everyone thought you meant at the time, and that some people now think you don't mean, as I understand it. I further understand the Minister of Finance to the point that any allocation from the Red-Green Government is a growth-promoting allocation anyway, so that really this is not something to discuss. Even DKK 11 billion in tax increases for Norwegian business are produced as a plus and as growth promoter. It's strange to hear this said in such an important discussion. The background must be that the red-green government seems to be irritating to be as weak in this study as the NHO has done in meeting the intentions for the use of the increased use of oil money. The Bondevik government met with 90 pst., while the red-greens only meet 15-20 pst. This means that the scope for action during this period has been largely used for cost-effective public expenditure growth, what the Minister of Finance also calls growth-promoting appropriations and measures. This has been done to meet expensive electoral commitments rather than to strengthen investment for growth and to facilitate stronger and healthier industrial ownership through, for example: a dynamic tax policy, which was adopted in the previous period and which produced results. That means that now, in the run-down times, we're less rusty than what else could have been the case. We had a unique opportunity to prepare Norwegian business better, more offensively. It's squatted away. The Bondevik II government lowered taxes by 24 billion dollars. We've discussed that many times, but what's new is that it's proven through research, documented by the Statistical Central Bureau, that it has a dynamic effect, that it's very growth-promoting. That's why it's rather motivating to see that, at the beginning of the recession we now have, we meet a government that is once again increasing taxes, and despite the strong pressure, it doesn't seem to have intended to reverse this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e3183	I almost regretted that I was raising this interpellation debate when I heard the comments from the Minister of Finance and the Workers' Party. I was dismayed. But I was apprehended by new optimism when I heard the speeches of Hans Olav Syversen and Lars Sponheim, where I could almost sign on every word. That gives hope. I raised this debate because I want to focus on what ambition we are going to have for the use of oil revenues. Then I hear that Alf E. Jakobsen and partly also the Minister of Finance say that an oil crown is like any other crown, oil revenue, and tax revenue from there is the same as VAT revenue. Yeah, is that it? I don't see it like this. For oil revenues, the management of a wealth – a wealth that is not God’s gift to one generation, but as it is a question of how to manage on our own behalf and on behalf of future generations. And then I think we have a unique opportunity to spend this money on something big, that's to build the knowledge society, to build the country through better roads, infrastructure and public transport, and to create a business-friendly climate that makes us not one-sidedly dependent on the petroleum industry, but that makes us have a diverse and strong business life. And then, of course, tax policy is also included. That's my main point – not if you're for or against kindergartens. I'm for kindergartens. I'm in favour of the Nordic welfare model. I'm for publicly funded well-being. That's not what the debate is about, it's about how we're going to manage our oil revenues. And that's where I believe that the broad majority of the Biggest had good ambitions in 2001 and tried to create an important debate – not by saying that kindergartens or other things are less important, but by saying how to manage this money, whether we should have some own ambitions for them, build the future, invest for the future, make sure that we further develop the knowledge society and do something that will bring us forward. And that's where I feel that the Workers' Party and SV are so fundamental when they say that an oil crown is equal to a value added tax crown. It's not.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e3192	Of course, it was not my goal, with my participation in this debate, to dissuade the representative, Mr Sanner. But even I was quite upset, because it shows that there are some significant differences in how we look at how to manage the values of society. And I actually agree with the representative, Sanner, that it is a great responsibility for us – we who have a non-renewable natural resource, and we who are in the generation that has the knowledge of pumping it up, what it has taken nature millions of years to form, and to transform it into a financial asset and make use of those revenues. Much of the disagreement is about what it is to invest in the future. Is it e.g. when the representatives from the Right say that it is so high-quality to spend tax credits? Many of the taxes that the Bondevik government gave out, of course, went right to increase private consumption to people who had more than enough from before. It is not true that all these taxes were pure-bred industrial taxes. So then increased private consumption for those who had a lot before was more high-ranking than various good purposes over the state budget. I'm thunderingly in disagreement, and the government is thunderingly in disagreement, that one can look so cleverly at what it is to invest for the future that some speakers have been about. To invest in people – we don’t have to take kindergartens, if someone in the hall is tired of talking about kindergartens as knowledge investment, but taking child protection, taking care of the drug, taking it to invest in a person who gets out of addiction and can contribute to the Norwegian community, for himself, and for the benefit of society – it’s an incredibly important investment that has to do with the growth capacity of the future. Our vision is not that it is to throw money into a large black hole. Our view is that it is to make sure that we can make use of the most important value we have in a society: people. There are really a lot of interesting things that have emerged in this debate, including the error that very many speakers and big business representatives believe that when tax revenue grows enormously in a boom, there is money that goes right into the expenditure side of a government budget. When e.g. Right-wing speakers say that we have NOK 135 billion more in tax revenue, it's interesting to give the impression that there's money right into public consumption. This must mean that they intend to make the state budgets in a different way and not to correct them for economic upturns and economic downturns. That's really very bad news, because now we're going into a low economic recession, and then we're going to be happy because we have these stabilizers in the way we make budgets, while we have a flexible rule of action. For, if the President allows, the rule of action is flexible. It's starting at 4 pst. real returns, but it also says that in bad times we can use more and in good times less. It's within the rule of action. It's not breaking the rule of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e3207	That was the last speaker, and now the president is so upset that he calls in voting. Eirin Faldet regained the President's office here.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e3217	The size should then go to voting on matters that have been discussed during the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e3225	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Carl I. Hagen, on behalf of the members of the Presidency Carl I. Hagen and Inge Wohnning proposal No. 2, from Inge Ryan, on behalf of Mr Ågot Valle, Member of the Presidency There is a vote on proposal No. Two from Inge Ryan. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The supplementary rules of the Grand Duchy’s Wage Commission, adopted by the Presidentship of the Grand Duchy on 21 June 1996, add: ‘As a general rule, the regulation of compensations for gross domestic product representatives and government councils shall follow wage developments in working life, measured in kronor last year. Where there are specific circumstances suggesting a different regulation, the Commission’s position on the Storting shall state the reasons for it.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e3248	I voted wrong. I voted in favour, but I should have voted against.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e3253	Then there are 95 votes against and 12 votes in favour. It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1 from the members of the Presidency Carl I. Hagen and Inge Wohnning. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision empowers the Government to introduce a system of self-employed pay lower than that laid down in the regulation and decision, as well as a public register containing information on the person using the scheme and the salary fixed by him.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e3267	I voted wrong. I voted in favour, but I should have voted against.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e3272	Then there are 67 votes against and 41 votes in favour. The Presidency had cancelled: The majority agrees to the fixing of the following allowances with effect from 1 October 2008: Storting representatives kr694 500pr. yearMembers of the Government1 029 000p. yearMinistry of State1 266 000per. years
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e3350	During the debate Ketil Solvik-Olsen has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e3365	Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e3387	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's – Proposal No. 1 by Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party - proposal No. 2, from Peter Skovholt Gitmark on behalf of the Right There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a monitoring report on Norwegian nuclear policy, focusing on thorium, and to assess the possibilities for Norwegian membership of Euratom. The notification must take into account the current policy of rejecting the commercial use of conventional nuclear technologies in Norway.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e3410	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a monitoring report on Norwegian nuclear policy, focusing on thorium, and to assess the possibility of Norwegian membership of Euratom.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e3444	During the debate Ketil Solvik-Olsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks for a national market for green certificates and submit it to the Government in an appropriate manner during the spring of 2009’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e3495	During the debate, Mr Solvik-Olsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e3522	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mr Solvik-Olsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposal No. 2, from Gunnar Kvassheim on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote a case of CO2 management that clarifies how such a commitment can be organised in order to contribute to the achievement of the national climate objectives.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e3549	The vote will then take place alternately between the vote and proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e3576	In Case No: No voting theme is available for 9 and 10.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e3584	The vote will take place on the proposal by Harald T. Nesvik, representing the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, submitted by Odelstinget's meeting on 25 November 2008: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate the administration of health refunds to remain under the Employment and Welfare Act.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e3619	During the debate, Mr Korsberg put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e3642	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02.ana.ud265e3698	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
