ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e43	The representatives of Trond Helleland, Per Olaf Lundteg, Laila Davøy, Odd Einar Dørum and Kari Lise Holmberg, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternate of the South-Trøndelag County, Torstein Larsen, has taken the seat. The representative of Gunnar Gundersen will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e68	On behalf of the representatives of Elisabeth Aspaker, Martin Engeset, Peter Skovholt Gitmark, Kari Lise Holmberg, Ivar Kristiansen and myself, I would like to propose an evaluation of the rapprochement with a view to achieving a better balance between the interests of the big society, the community and individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e73	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e89	Those responsible for a terrorist act are the terrorists. They are the culprits of innocent people. It is those who are responsible for the horror and chaos that will always follow in the wake of a terrorist action. What this matter is about is therefore not to find scapegoats and to distribute guilt and guilt to those who were present and themselves were hit differently. They experienced a chaotic and frightening situation and did not know if they themselves would come alive from it. I'm saying this in the first place so we're going to have it with us like a back porch. For me as case rapporteur and for the Christian People's Party, it has been important to get the event and the handling of what happened in Kabul to be fully illuminated. What is the lesson we need to take forward in relation to the security of politicians, employees, journalists and others who are involved in the travels of state councils? Is there anything about the handling, the management, the communication that could have been done differently? Do we all have the necessary procedures and plans for crisis management? The Committee's discussions with the departments concerned, the hearings of control and the input from press officials have helped to shed light on the event itself, the preparation and the crisis management. Even after working on the matter over time, I still know that it was a weakness that the reviews carried out in the departments were only internal. We believe it would have been a great advantage if the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in its review had also withdrawn views from others who experienced the terrorist attack. Probably it would be best if the U.D. itself had initiated an external review. By the fact that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs had shown somewhat greater openness from the start, by being made public with an open-ended debate, this would probably not be a matter for the Control Committee, as it turned out. The review of the case shows that despite all the improvements made by planning and crisis management, etc. in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, after the tsunami in South Asia, there is a lack. Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre has stressed that the plan did not stand in the way of the crisis. At the same time, however, he has clearly acknowledged that there were shortcomings in the plan, for example that there were no specially developed guidelines when the crisis management itself was hit and in the midst of the crisis. In the light of experience, we understand that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is now updating the plan and launching other measures, such as: be more restrictive with information on flight plans when travelling to vulnerable areas employing security advisers at the Embassy in Kabul and a self-employed security coordinator in the U.D. are undergoing emergency and emergency work at the Embassy in Kabul strengthening security training across a broad field of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs; Of course, we see it both as necessary and positive that the department now implements these measures. The terrorist attack in Kabul also showed the importance of first aid knowledge. It is therefore necessary to require that all employees and political staff travelling to such vulnerable areas receive such training. During the examination of this matter in the Committee, it was found that there had been no crisis management practice at the Kabul Embassy since 2005. We can't help but be critical. However, it should be noted that there were isolated events in 2006 that also provided training in crisis management, but it is hardly a good excuse. Not least in areas such as this, it may be essential that employees have good and relevant training also through regular and relevant exercises. The question of the civil or military character of the journey and the choice of the Serena Hotel as a residence were part of the debate behind the terrorist attack. Based on the findings of the hearings, inter alia: The PST Director’s opinions on this matter have not been taken into account by the Committee in relation to the choice of travel arrangements and place of residence by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. All those who have spoken have also pointed out that Hotel Serena is supposed to be the safest place to live for foreigners in Kabul, if one ignores military settlements. Even the journalists said that it was where they also expected to stay at later visits. In spite of this, consideration should in any case be given to future travel, whether other types of travel arrangements could lead to lower risks, such as: by making shorter visits, one-day trips, more in line with the arrangements used by countries such as England and the United States. One crucial reason for the incident was that the security around the hotel failed at one or more points during the terrorist attack, as suicide bombers managed to get through the lockdowns and into the hotel. It is also important in view of future visits that as far as possible an attempt is made to clarify what happened and how it could happen. Norwegian authorities must seek to contribute to this in cooperation with Afghan authorities. Through contact with the authorities in Afghanistan, one could also, if possible, contribute to the improvement of safety oversight. I expect that in the future, the security around the entrance party to the locations of Norwegian authorities will be given extra attention by the PST. In view of the situation in Kabul, there is also reason to stop the security conditions surrounding accompanying employees and others in the wake of a Council of State. In retrospect, we see that they were not sufficient. It's positive that something is doing about this. We are pleased that a working group was set up quickly to look into safety measures for, among other things. the accompanying press. There are rightly questions as to why journalists who took part in this trip could not share in the same information on the terrorist threat that came in the evening, as the other delegation received. However, we have confidence that the work being done will find ways to solve this that help to improve security, and without compromising the free and independent position of the press. The terrorist attack had a tragic outcome by killing several people, including a Norwegian journalist. In addition, an employee of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was severely injured. There is reason to highlight the important efforts made by the press personnel who assisted, but also by employees and others, by providing emergency assistance and human support to the two directly affected. Despite this effort, life was not to save Carsten Thomassen. The repeated question, whether the event could have had a less tragic outcome if something had been handled differently, we don't think it's possible for anyone to answer. An important reminder to all of us should therefore be to show humility and refrain from bringing down any judgment. However, those who are entitled to our special consideration are those who sit with the wallpaper, the relatives. This is a reminder not to forget. In the light of the clock, it is always easier to see what should have been done differently. In the presentations by the three departments, the Committee's hearings and the ministry's answers to the Committee's questions, we can also see that there are slightly different presentations of events and perceptions. It might be inevitable. At the same time, some questions have been asked and some issues raised that have not been answered exhaustively. For example, there is still insufficient response to why direct contact was not established between the staff of the SISU and the journalists who were with Carsten Thomassen. Similarly, it is also difficult to understand why no information was given to the SISU personnel that there was more than one injured Norwegian. It is also surprising that not all the Norwegians who were around the Minister of Foreign Affairs in the cellar knew that there were two damaged Norwegians. In this context, there is a finding that the coordination of communication did not work well enough. Of course, some of the answers to these issues lie in the chaos that prevailed. It may also be attributed to the limited scope available to the control committee in spite of all the difficulties involved. The Committee provides its information mainly through letters, questions and hearings. An independent review might bring us something closer. In any case, the profit had to be weighed against the costs. With regard to these questions, which have been asked a number of times, it seems to us therefore no longer possible to need them. We noticed that even during the hearing the foreign minister went a long way both when it was trying to explain how things were going, and why they were handled as they were. At the same time, there was a clear recognition that, in retrospect, some things could have been done differently, for example. there were telephones that could not have been picked up. We don't have any trouble understanding that the course under the prevailing conditions didn't go all by the textbook. An overall committee is involved in drawing up some points that should be involved in crisis management in the future. This concerns both the importance of good crisis management, operational crisis plans that take into account that any crisis is different from the previous one, and regular and relevant exercises. The importance of good first-aid knowledge, cooperation with the PST on planning and security arrangements and communication procedures in the event of crises are also highlighted. Security arrangements around politicians, civil servants, the press and others travelling in the hands of a VIP person must also pay attention. The Committee broadly shares most of the comments made in this matter. At some points, we still separate layers. Something from the opposition is said to have to be interpreted as a certain criticism by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the handling of the case. The Christian People's Party is pleased that, through the examination of the matter in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, we have been better informed, and that the Stortinget now has the opportunity to speak through a debate in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e157	The Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs' wish for the debate is that the main speakers from the parties get up to 10 minutes' speaking time, that the Foreign Minister get the same thing, and that the speakers then get 5 minutes. Furthermore, it is proposed that there be a succession of up to five lines after the Minister for Foreign Affairs and three lines after the main speakers. As the president assumes there is agreement on that, there will now be a line change. - No one has asked for the word in reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e166	The Monday's attack on the Danish Embassy in Islamabad is another example of how it is demanding to protect oneself against ruthless terrorism. It underlines the importance of learning from the tragedy of Hotel Serena, as we have now done - both in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' own examination and through the treatment of the Control Committee. Animal-breeding experience needs to be reflected in increasing crisis preparedness and procedures. This is a continuous work, which is why it was the duty of the Minister of Foreign Affairs to carry out the review immediately undertaken by the Ministry. Contributing to the lessons to be learned to strengthen preparedness for the crisis was also the intention of the Monitoring Committee to address the matter. Against this background, it is reassuring that the lessons learned from the Committee on Control cover the same issues as the measures already taken by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs itself, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs explained in the hearing with the Committee. The committee configuration is largely unanimous, as the rapporteur explained. This provides a good basis for further strengthening the preparedness of our foreign service. There are a few points in the setting where we're separating layers, and I'm going to explain why we don't find the basis for joining the formulations of the minority. The first is the criticism of the Progress Party, the members of the Right and Christian People's Party in careful order travel because the department did not also have conversations with others who were on the trip, among others. the press, as the basis for their own presentation. I believe that the Ministry's reasoning that they chose not to do so is most relevant. It could easily become a debate, among other things. whether the ministry chose to focus on the recordings they thought supported their assessment, while excluding other parts. The inspection committee has now heard two of the journalists who took part in the trip and received written input from two more. At my discretion, these recordings strengthen the ministry's own description of the course of events. The three parties further state in the preamble that ‘many speak for’ that there should have been an independent review of the case in addition to the ministry’s own. It's a more careful formulation than the one used by the leaders of the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Advance Party immediately after the tragedy. Then the requirement for an external investigation was quite clear. The review by the Control Committee shows, in my view, that an external investigation would hardly have helped to clarify the matter more broadly and better, if the aim had been to continue to review the events with a view to drawing lessons from them in order to strengthen the preparedness for the crisis. The second place in which the Committee shares the position relates to the dramatic time from the start of the attack, approx. %d %s %d %s" is "%d %s" 18.15, until both the seriously wounded Northmen were evacuated from the hotel, approx. %d %s %d %s" is "%d %s" 20. The minority of the Committee considers that what happened in these scarce two hours raises questions that have not been answered ‘fully’. First of all, why it was not clarified exactly where in the lobby it badly damaged Carsten Thomassen, and why there was no direct telephone contact between those who helped him, and the crew of the SISU. I believe that the reason why these questions have not been adequately answered is to find in the statements we have received from those who stood in the midst of this chaotic drama. Here we find the explanation why questions can be raised afterwards that are simply not well answered. When assessing this, it is necessary to reflect on the situation in which they were in, those who had to deal with the situation in the various places inside and outside the hotel during these two hours. Those who were evacuated in the basement could have no picture of the situation either in the lobby or outside the hotel. The ambulances were called immediately, before they knew if anyone had been hurt at all. Cut off from the knowledge of a chaos in the yard that was so extensive that the crews of the SISU assessed whether it was at all reasonable to leave the vehicle when they finally came in, it is understandable to think that it would be easy for the relief teams to find the damage when the ambulances first arrived and the evacuation theme could come in. But that's the way it was, as we now know in retrospect, not. The pressmen, who instead of staying in a safer place went down in the lobby area and gave absolutely necessary first aid to the two injured the Northmen, said in the hearing that they did not think it was they in the basement who were going to help them with the evacuation. The American soldiers who came ordered an evacuation before they withdrew because it was too dangerous to stay at the hotel. So the picture the press people had of the evacuation is underlined by the fact that when the opportunity finally came, they demanded assurances that the Norwegian SISU would go to a place where there was surgical help to get. It is this fragmented reality that was what the delegation, the press followed and the evacuation team had to act from at Hotel Serena. That in retrospect, for us, who can see all these pieces in context, there may be questions as to why those who stood in the middle of it, did not think or trade differently, is a quite different matter. That's why, on our part, we didn't want to go into these kind of assessments. Procedures and guidelines for crisis situations are a framework to help those affected and those in charge of the crisis to act as rationally as possible. No plan can give detailed instructions on how to act in any situation. It's not possible to disconnect the human factor. It is not desirable either. The terrorist attack on Hotel Serena provides examples of how important the human factor can be. If the pressmen who were in their rooms when the attack came, followed the emergency plans, they would remain where they were or ran to an even safer place. They did the opposite. They ran to the event. It caused them to find two strong damage to the Nordics, as they did with their own lives to do what they could to help. This is why an overall committee expresses great admiration for the efforts made in the chaos and the drama of the Serena Hotel, both by the press and by the U.D. staff. That as later as that evening turned out not to be enough when it came to Carsten Thomassen, there is something that everyone in it had to live with, as the Foreign Minister put it in the hearing with the Committee. That is why all of us who have had the opportunity to assess the individual elements with a view to the whole of the people who stood up in it, should not have the opportunity to be cautious about what might have given us another outcome - as the case-law rapporteur emphasised. There will be speculations that can help to gnaw up under a guilt feeling it should not be the basis of those who stood in the middle of it, who had to act on the basis of a fragmented and threatening reality, and who made a great effort. When, in its first statement, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs concluded that ‘the deficiencies revealed have not had a significant impact on the course of events’, it was interpreted as acquitting itself. What you should free yourself from in this case, you might wonder. But the point was that the answers to the questions raised when things go wrong are not buried in the plank. It was not the plan that caused it, for example. no direct telephone contact was established between the journalists and the SISU. The terrorist attack on Hotel Serena was a drama it's impossible to imagine for us who didn't experience it. It created situations that made exceptional demands on those who had been affected, and on their ability to deal with the situation -- a situation that at the same time left strong restrictions on the action they had when the Afghan police and Afghan authorities took control of the hotel and it was for a long time uncertain how many suicide bombers had succeeded in getting into the area. Reports in this setting from everyone who stood up in it, show how fine the margins were, and how little was going to happen, before the terrorist attack had led to even more lives being lost. Finally, let me just say a little bit about the work being done in relation to the press organisations to assess whether the accompanying press staff can be more fully covered by the safety arrangements for this type of travel. I think that's possible. But I think we should be aware that it requires the will of the press itself to impose restrictions on the information they receive, not just on possible threats, as we had an example of now, but perhaps primarily on evacuation arrangements. If the press had been informed about the evacuation plan - in this case where the hotel was to be evacuated - the requirement had to be, for example. be that there were not more than two mid-pages in tomorrow's newspapers, with drawings. That's the kind of thing that has to go into the picture, and I think it's the press itself that has to draw those boundaries. I want us to have it with us when we evaluate the work further.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e235	I believe that the review, hearings and proceedings of the Control Committee have been very useful both for the Storting and for the Government. There has been a thorough process and a thorough review, and there have been good and clarifying consultations carried out by the Committee. The tragic terrorist attack on Hotel Serena has led to some lessons being learned here, and the members of the Government who met in the hearing have clearly acknowledged that they have done so. In this way, something good could come out of the tragic event that led to the loss of human life, including the life of a Norwegian journalist. Like the case rapporteur, I think it would make sense if the Foreign Minister had started an external review faster than the internal one, which also had no questions for the accompanying press. There would have been a better basis for an external review. However, much of this has now been done through the work of the Committee, and there is an overall committee that has drawn some conclusions that will be useful for the future. What I think will be absolutely crucial in the future are repeated exercises at all foreign stations that are in exposed areas - a good and thorough exercise from time to time in crisis management and communication, as a joint committee draws up in the setting, reviewing communication procedures that will be there in crisis situations, perhaps better cooperation with the PST on planning and security arrangements, and ensuring that all those who are in a delegation, including the press, are properly briefed and provided with the necessary information. Here I join in what Svein Roald Hansen said about the relationship with the press: Of course, the press itself must draw the final conclusions as to how they will act and participate in various delegations. Many have asked, Could anything be done differently? To that of course the answer is yes - and it will always be. It is impossible, as many have said, to be fully prepared for such a terrorist attack, which, as one committee has also stated, was not the coin of the Norwegian Minister for Foreign Affairs or the Norwegian delegation - it was a mere coincidence that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and his followers were at the hotel when this terrorist attack came. After the review of the estimate, it is, of course, clear that things could have been done differently. I think everyone agrees that much more should have been done to establish contact between those who were in the basement, and the place where Carsten Thomassen was. It may not have been thought to be a problem, and it is natural in the chaotic situation that prevailed in the hotel and in the cellar. It is later that one can also conclude that one should have had better communication with the SISU. You should have an operational management, so that once you got Svenungsen out, you could also get with Carsten Thomassen. But I recognize that it's post-war, and that the chaotic conditions of the hotel prevailed during these tragic hours. The security of our delegations is also mentioned in the vote, and the conclusion of an overall committee is that the security arrangements around politicians, the civil service and others who travel in the wake of a VIP person must be absolutely central. In addition, I would like to add that safety must be at the heart of those who are on a continuous job, including: in Afghanistan. It is a little remarkable to record part of the current debate in the media about our defence forces and our efforts in Afghanistan. The papers claim that there are economic reasons for reducing the level of weapons and vehicles that our forces now have and that the next group of defense personnel to go down to get. I would like to ask the Minister for Defence to make it clear that this is not due to financial difficulties. She underlined and confirmed in several line changes with me when we dealt with the so-called Rosén case, that there was no money to cause you to have no necessary vehicles and necessary safety arrangements. This should also be the case when we look at Norway’s economic situation, and the fact that expenditure incurred in other countries has no impact on the Norwegian domestic economy. So I think we'll be better prepared in the future if the Foreign Minister - I suppose he will confirm that in his speech - and the other councils follow up what is a unanimous conclusion of the Committee on Exercises, Preparations and Thorough Training, so that everyone who is out and in countries where such a thing can happen will be far better rusted than what you were. It also concerns the planning and preparation of operational management for what will happen and the instructions to be given in relation to the different scenarios to be prepared through practice and training.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e256	The rapporteur initially said that the terrorists were responsible for a terrorist act. I want to repeat that and stress that the kind of terrorist action to which the Norwegian delegation was subjected unfortunately belongs to what the Afghan people are accustomed to regularly, and even in a number of more serious versions. So let's hope that the total military and civil effort in Afghanistan will make it possible for the Afghan people to release this type of regular terrorist attack. Now it's Norwegian. Let me also say that I am behind the rapporteur's statement in its entirety, and I do not have much to add. Let me just stress that the criticism which, especially on the part of the government parties, at least part of them, was raised against the fact that the matter at all came up as a control hearing and became a matter in the control committee, I think there is still little left of it. In retrospect, and that's what I suppose the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will learn from -- I allow myself to say that it might have been done differently in other departments as well -- had as point 1 taken different views from their own, i.e. from the journalists who were there. That would not weaken the presentation. Even I think that would reinforce the statement both if the Foreign Minister had previously been open to a direct statement in the Storting and if there had been an investigation of independent forces. You don't do most of the tests yourself. Most surveys are conducted by people who have an absolutely unhindered relationship with events and actors. So I'm assuming that this is the way you've learned a little bit about it. On the other points where it is hers, I must first say that it remains as an unexplained situation that there was not sufficient contact between the SISU and those who stood around the late journalist Thomassen. So the Foreign Minister said at the hearing that there are some things that could have been done differently. There's probably some sort of self-criticism in it, although it's expressed in very diplomatic terms. I get that. My impression is also that everyone who was in the situation, did their utmost, both those who were from the U.D., from the police, journalists and other associates, but I really believe that the minority, the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, meet the situation quite well in one sentence in the position: ‘Many suggest that the coordination of communication has not worked well enough.’ In the joint summary taken by the Committee, there are points of view on what should be included in the further work on crisis management: The review of crisis communication practices is one of the things to be taken into account. The Committee took some time to decide whether or not the visit should have a civil character, but concludes that it was not. There, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Foreign Affairs agree that such a decision and such an expression did not specifically increase the dangers of the journey, and it was taken in accordance with the PST Council. On the other hand, there is still a slight rush between different departments. PST was very concerned in the hearings that civil escorts from the airport and into Kabul’s centre were several times safer than military escorts. A few days later, the Minister of Defence will travel with military escorts to Kabul. Let me say it this way: when we have a coordination of the secret services, it would have been better if they coordinated themselves in such views -- without it probably having any very decisive impact on the actual situation. Let me also end by saying that I believe that afterwards, when you review both the management of this service and the management of the U.D., you will benefit from a little more transparency to the press in notifying you of the threats that are coming. I recognise that there may be problems in relation to where the information is obtained, i.e. that it may weaken the relationship with other services. I don't think that argument should be too stressed in relation to perhaps being a little more open to the press about these points for their own safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e278	The attack on Hotel Serena in Kabul on January 14 was a terrible and pointless terrorist attack. Six people were killed, including Carsten Thomassen, who was the victim of an abominable act directed at innocent, civilians. In addition, eight people were injured during the shooting in the hotel, including the U.D. employee Bjørn Svenungsen, who was severely injured, but survived thanks to good first aid, proper and rapid efforts by employees, people who came to, both civil and military. But Carsten's life was unfortunately lost. Over many years here in the house, I learned to know Carsten Thomassen as a very capable journalist with the ability to know and analyse and to make reports on politics, which in addition were able to produce human aspects of political conflicts in the world. He was one of the best, with a strong and genuine commitment. Among many things, this is what I remember Carsten for. His death was meaningless, but his life was not. Following the terrorist attack in Kabul, it is important that the Norwegian authorities – we – draw lessons from this case, so that we can reduce the risk of similar tragic events occurring in the future. At the same time, we must recognise that Afghanistan is a country in war, where Norway is engaged both militarily and civilly to help the population and to help build a civil society and democracy. The Monitoring Committee has examined this matter thoroughly, both through open and closed consultations, through many questions we have asked for answers to, and through reports we have received from three departments concerned. In particular, I must say that the impression of the testimony of the two journalists Harald Henden and Fredrik Greisvik made when they presented them to the committee. They were professional brothers at work who did what they could to save Carsten Thomassen's life in a difficult and extreme situation. They deserve a great deal of gratitude for the efforts they have made on the ground, and not least for their witnessing to the Committee. Also people in the U.D., the ambassador and his people and bodyguards who served the country in a very demanding and extreme situation deserve a great deal of thanks. They helped save lives and were busy getting the foreign minister and his followers safe. Fortunately, the attitude in this matter has become much more subdued and humble than what was the case after the incident, which was marked by strong criticism from the opposition. But it's earned it. Several members of the Committee went into the media early before the proceedings of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs were started, and were critical of various aspects of the trip to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Let me then refer to what a unanimous committee says in the setting: ‘In this context, the Committee noted that, at the open hearing, the Chief of the Police Security Service, Jørn Holme, stated that a visit with a civil character and the use of Hotel Serena was a proper arrangement by which the PST did not find grounds to ask questions. He further said, ‘If the U.D. had not written anything about the profile at all, I am pretty sure that there had been a visit with a civil profile.’» That means that the criticism that was raised, fortunately, has been muted, and there is a unanimous committee behind this. The Committee points out that all those who have spoken to the Committee have stated that Hotel Serena was the safest place to live for foreigners in Kabul if you ignore military settlements. It was clear from the hearing with the three Councils that most civil meetings had to take place outside the military areas, so that residence, for example. at KAIA, some meetings would still have to have been closed at Hotel Serena or similar civil sites. This could have given rise to major safety challenges, as the transport stages are the most vulnerable terrorist targets in Kabul. The Committee shall not, on the basis of what has arisen during the hearing, find grounds for criticising the choice of place of residence or the civil character of the journey. I believe that the assessments from an overall committee show how wrong it could be for us who were here at home, and who observed this from the outside, to draw hasty conclusions in a difficult situation. Let me further point out to the PST Chief Jørn Holmes's assessments at the hearing on 10 April of the security situation in Kabul: ‘In Kabul, there is almost weekly one or more serious attacks, such as missile protection, suicide attacks, hand-gun attacks or pre-arranged road bombs. In addition to these attacks weekly, there is a very high number of threats of attacks by Afghan authorities themselves or allied countries in various ways. The content of these threats is very different in nature and reliability, but it can be said consistently that there is very rarely a link between threats and actions carried out. Threats are thus primarily communicated, communicated or in a way spread to influence the behaviour of Afghan authorities and allied countries.’ This quote shows with all possible clarity how demanding it is to communicate information about different things that are captured by Afghan or Allied forces, and in this way it is difficult to know what to take into account and what not to take into account. It shows that the situation is demanding, and that a high level of analytical ability is required to know what to focus on in communication. In the review of the case, it has been found that there have been regulatory shortcomings, as this crisis has revealed. But it has also been found that these have not been of a nature that can be said to have had an impact on the course of events. In other words, there is no reason to assume that other procedures would have given another outcome of the drama that spread at Hotel Serena. It's important to remember when we're going to try to sum up what happened, and learn from the matter. It has also emerged that, in the light of the terrorist attack, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has taken a number of measures to be better equipped to face this kind of situation in the future, not only in Afghanistan but also in other areas of conflict. The following measures are mentioned in the Ministry’s statement: A review of the safety situation in Afghanistan has been carried out for Norwegian civilian personnel and other civil agents. It is decided to establish a position as civil security adviser at the Embassy in Kabul. It has been decided to strengthen the U.D. crisis management configuration by, inter alia: the establishment of a post of safety coordinator in the Ministry. The position will be used to coordinate cooperation with the police and military intelligence to ensure as far as possible a consistent assessment of security needs in the event of visits and outsourcing. It will also be used to maintain close contact with non-governmental organisations and others with a presence in vulnerable areas. The U.D. also wants to facilitate the best possible participation of press representatives in travel to different areas, including to vulnerable areas in the future. This should be done in dialogue with the press's own bodies, as the responsibility of the press for its own security and the responsibility of the authorities in connection with delegation travel affect fundamental issues for the press itself. Several previous speakers have addressed this very question. It shall also be further addressed by a working group set up and chaired by the Ministry of Justice. The experience of the terrorist attack in Kabul will be part of the U.D. programme for training and training of own staff in crisis management. Training and exercises are now organised for U.D. staff both outdoors and at home. Let me stress that there is a need to strengthen training and practice of both crisis losses, posted in conflict areas, delegates and other staff in the department. This also applies to first aid. In the situation that was in Hotel Serena, we have seen how crucial it was. As an employer, Norwegian media, like the U.D., have a separate responsibility to assess the safety of their personnel in the context of travel in conflict areas. The terrorist attack in Kabul has updated the need for a broad assessment of the security situation of public servants serving or visiting conflict areas. The U.D.’s responsibilities for employers indicate that the Ministry carefully assesses these issues and implements the necessary measures to strengthen the safety and security of employees. At the hearing of the Committee on 13 March 2008, the Minister for Foreign Affairs informed that a working group was set up at ministerial level under the direction of the ministerial councils of the Ministry of Justice and Police. The Group has started work on assessing safety issues related to foreign travel where journalists are also involved. It is an important working group, which I hope will arrive at conclusions that will better ensure everyone's safety the next time this might be the case. The EEAS has learned from this case. The same applies to Norwegian authorities involved. The press organisations also draw lessons from this case, and that is necessary. In retrospect, I also think it is necessary for some members of the Committee to learn from this. Many critical words fell in the first few weeks after the attack. These are now, fortunately, grounded. Making such strong criticisms before the hearings ended, and before the committee had started the procedure to find out what had actually happened, it seems to me that in retrospect. Finally, let me thank the Foreign Minister and the other actors who have taken part in the hearing for having contributed to learning and knowledge in order to increase security for diplomats, press and others who are doing a vital job in a conflict-filled world. Through the treatment I have tried to get into the extreme situation of those who were at the hotel. They didn't have the fasit. They acted in a situation where they were confronted with suicide bombers, where people were shot in the lobby, where they did not know if armed people were friends or enemies. Therefore, it is difficult for me to comment on which telephones you should have taken. Those who were there did the best they could under extreme conditions. That's all we can ask. It is therefore not right, in my opinion, to make an assessment of whether other choices than those actually made could have given other results. The lesson of the terrorist attack with the profoundly tragic outcome is that you have to try to be better rusted when this happens again. And that will unfortunately happen again.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e341	The Minister of Foreign Affairs made a trip to Afghanistan in January 2008. The trip was planned for the period 14-17 January, and the purpose of the trip was to conduct bilateral talks with the Afghan authorities and make visible and mark long-term Norwegian development assistance. The Minister of Foreign Affairs was also to meet representatives of international organisations in Afghanistan, with Norwegian non-governmental organisations and Norwegian military forces. Hotel Serena, where the delegation lived, was then hit by a terrorist attack. Three heavily armed persons entered the hotel's area and subsequently entered the hotel itself. The result of the attack was that more people lost their lives, including journalist Carsten Thomassen from Dagbladet. Furthermore, several people were injured in the attack, including U.D. employee Bjørn Svenungsen. Consultations have been held with both relevant government councils, representatives of the press and the PST, which have provided useful input to the review of the terrorist attack in Kabul by the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee. Both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the press who experienced the terrorist attack, in their introductions and responses, all made clear the unbridled, chaotic and, in part, dramatic situation that occurred at the Serena Hotel during and after the attack. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Justice and Police and the Ministry of Defence have all carried out their own reviews of the course of events prior to, during and after the attack. A working group at ministerial level chaired by the Ministry of Justice and the Police has started work on security issues related to foreign travel for official delegations, including journalists. Here, too, there is dialogue with the bodies of the press. Following the incident, the Norwegian Press Association has set up a safety committee to coordinate safety issues with the media and contact with the authorities. The centre party is well pleased with the measures being taken and will commend the Councils for the transparency on the subject as demonstrated to both the Stortinget and the media. This case shows that even a small country such as Norway can be subjected to terrorist attacks, where people are willing to sacrifice their lives for a matter in which they believe. I myself have lived at the Hotel Serena, which has been and is the safest hotel in Kabul - perhaps one of the safest in the world. History shows that even a hotel that is secured by both strong guard, locks and gates does not guarantee full security when people are willing to sacrifice their own lives - suicide bombers that explode to carry out politically motivated violence. Therefore, it surprises me when I find that some people in retrospect are more concerned about searching for possible errors in procedures than about condemning the actual actions that have been carried out, or being involved in discussing why terror occurs. I am therefore pleased that the President-in-Office and others in the Chamber have clearly placed responsibility for this terror - with the terrorists. Among other things, I have I note that one of the members of the Committee at hearings and in the media has spent a lot of time sketching that an experienced military should be on state visits abroad to take control of a crisis situation. What we know is that the PST is responsible for the security of Norwegian government councils, that they have carried out this task in a very good way, and that the PST has all the powers needed to take control when there is a risk to the security of state councils. We have found in this case that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' review of policies and procedures and their shortcomings in the legislation that this crisis revealed were not of such a nature that it can be said to have had an impact on the course of events. In other words, there is no reason to assume that other procedures would have given another outcome to the drama and tragedy that spread at Hotel Serena. Procedures and guidelines for crisis situations are a framework to contribute to the ability of those affected to act as rationally as possible in order to minimise potential adverse effects. The suicide bomber attack to which Hotel Serena was exposed created a drama that made exceptional demands on the ability of the affected persons to deal with the situation, while at the same time placing strong restrictions on their ability to act in a situation where Afghan police and military authorities took control of the hotel and the area around. I'm actually impressed by the efforts of individuals in the dramatic and unbridled situation that has spread out in the hotel, and I'm going to praise the efforts of both the people of the U.D. and the PST and the press, who, despite the crisis situation, were able to do so much. It is not possible to guard against the drama and the intransigence that this kind of terrorist attack brings to those who are in the midst of it. That's probably a lesson we have to take with us, and that's hard to get away from accepting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e360	I have noted the Committee's assessments and concrete proposals in the vote, and I will also acknowledge a thorough and thorough hearing in March. We're taking more lessons from both of these instances. I would also like to thank you for the good and focused articles here today. We've learned a lot, and we've done a number of things. At the same time, efforts are being made to strengthen the safety of travel abroad, and in the case of non-residents, a continuous process. In the wake of the Serena attack, a number of measures have already been implemented to improve the safety of delegation travel, both under the direction of each department and at our foreign stations. At the same time, a ministerial council chaired by the Ministry of Justice, as several have mentioned, is working to identify common security measures for all departments. I understand that this group will present its report in a short time. I will not dwell on the events and considerations surrounding the attack in January on this occasion. I feel that we were given a good opportunity to do so during the hearings in the control committee. Let me pick out some areas where it is now working to give the Storting an update in fields where I feel that the whole committee and we are all committed to making progress, and first the Ministry's own measures to improve the safety of travel and some points here: Firstly, the emergency apparatus. The January attack showed, among other things: that the U.D. crisis plan was not sufficiently developed in a situation where the crisis management itself had been affected and that the communication procedures were not good enough. We've been gripping this. During these days the Ministry is in the process of completing a revised and up-to-date safety, preparedness and crisis management plan. In addition to these overall plans, we have reviewed and updated the risk and vulnerability analyses, as well as the preparedness and evacuation plans at all foreign stations. The plan reflects more strongly than before the demand for rapid and operational response and addresses all types of crises, including those that are not predictable. The newly created post of safety coordinator in the Ministry has been announced and an external applicant has been offered employment. This coordinator will have a central role in the planning and implementation of the Ministry’s own travels and will support the EEAS in ensuring the security of delegation visits from Norway. Secondly, training and exercises. We've strengthened security training across a wide range. mandatory first-aid training, stress training and personal safety, including kidnapping and hostage-taking behaviour, has been introduced for personnel required to operate in stations in security exposed areas; Courses will subsequently also be made mandatory for home-based personnel who often travel themselves or accompany political leadership to vulnerable areas. These measures are in addition to training in emergency and emergency work for all members of the department's preparedness organisation, as well as for our aspirants. Crisis management is also an important part of preparatory training for all those leaving to serve at Norwegian foreign stations. In addition to our own forces, we draw, among other things, police and defence, as well as non-governmental organisations such as the Red Cross, in order to ensure optimal training. I feel that the feedback from my colleagues in the department through this is consistently positive. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has also strengthened the requirements for the maintenance of regular training in preparedness and crisis management at foreign stations and in the ministry. Priority is given to stations in security exposed areas. So far in 2008, there have been exercises supported by the U.D. at the embassies in Kabul, Colombo, Islamabad, Pretoria and Tehran. In addition, several foreign stations have carried out local exercises. Several crisis exercises have also been conducted in the U.D., including: for the strategic management of the Ministry. Thirdly, new procedures have been put in place for travel. Pending that report from the Ministry of Justice, the U.D. has launched several initiatives on its own initiative. These include, inter alia: enhanced cooperation with the Police Security Service, the PST, both in the planning and implementation of travel. In case of travel to security exposed areas, a fixed common safety briefing procedure shall be established as soon as possible upon arrival at the place of destination. There is also a new ‘emergency card’ practice, which contains emergency numbers and other important information in the event of accidents and crises. In addition, the U.D. staff who often accompany politicians in security-related areas have received first aid training, and they always carry first aid equipment on such trips. UD is constantly working to improve the safety of its own employees, both in travel and outsourcing. This work ranges far from improved insurance schemes and to enhanced self-security in the form of training and equipment. The fourth area relates to the ratio to the media. Immediately after the Kabul attack, the U.D. introduced a more restrictive practice of publishing travel information on the Internet when travelling to vulnerable areas. Furthermore, a permanent arrangement is in place for the press to have the ‘standby cards’ referred to above in line with the other delegation members and to participate in the security briefing held on arrival in security restricted areas. It also applies to areas that may not be exposed to safety but have become part of the routine. I met with the Press Association Security Committee on these issues at the beginning of March, and I want to continue this dialogue. It is also the case that the Ministry of Justice Working Party will meet with the Secretary-General's Security Committee on the same subject on 18 June. Our relationship with the media must be as transparent as possible, including safety-related issues. At the same time, we must ensure that information that should be protected is protected. However, it must be clear that concrete advice of importance for the provision of its own safety must flow to all those involved in the journey, regardless of whether it has a safety clearance or not. This is provided for in practical arrangements. The situation in Afghanistan is still demanding, and the level of threats in the country is still high. The U.D. has therefore had a thorough review of the security of the Embassy in Kabul in cooperation with our security authorities during the spring. The review showed that most of it works satisfactorily, but that some conditions should be improved. This is why, among other things: the physical security of the embassy reinforced and the watchkeeping around the embassy complex expanded. Connection systems have improved and all employees have received security courses. I would add that we have had good cooperation with the Afghan authorities on this. Pending permanent employment as a civil security adviser, a police officer has been seconded to the embassy on a temporary basis. But the permanent position is now occupied, and the selected person will join in a few weeks. Other safeguard measures are in the process of being implemented. I would also like to mention that I have recently appointed one of our most experienced diplomats as a new ambassador in Kabul. But it is not just at the Embassy in Kabul that the security situation is demanding. We had that painful experience as late as a few days ago in connection with the attack on the Danish Embassy in Islamabad in Pakistan. In the last few months, we have had a review of the security of several of our most vulnerable foreign stations, such as the Embassy in Islamabad, and we have already followed up on training, exercises and practical measures across a broad spectrum. This is important in order to ensure the safety of our employees, but also to assure us that the embassy will be able to assist the Nordics affected by accidents and crises in the best possible way. In general, the international threat picture is more complicated and devoured than before. At the same time, the need for contacts, knowledge and understanding across borders has never been greater. It is therefore essential that both politicians, officials and women, media representatives, representatives of civil society and others are allowed to travel and act as freely as possible. We have to live with the fact that there will always be a certain type of safety risk in some types of travel. We may never be able to sacrilege ourselves. However, the aim must be to minimise the risk. It requires good planning, follow-up and practice, and it requires a high level of safety awareness of all those involved. The government will do its utmost to contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e423	I have, as you know, previously made a classified statement on the matter to the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee and an open presentation on the same day. In addition, in a letter dated 25 February 2008, I answered the questions raised by the Committee on Control and Constitution and also by the members of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. Furthermore, I refer to my presentation at the hearing of the Control and Constitutional Committee on 13 March and the hearing with the PST Chief on 10 April 2008. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs also pointed out, all these rounds - letters, hearings - have been useful in the work that the Ministry is now doing. In my opinion, the work of the Police Security Service on the threat assessment as well as the planning and implementation of the vigilance campaign has been carried out in a good and sound manner in accordance with the applicable legislation and procedures. There is a basis for commending them for the efforts made in a very difficult situation. The cooperation of the service with other bodies, including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Intelligence Service, the Defence and the Embassy of Norway in Kabul, seems to have been good at all stages of planning, and also during the visit. This does not mean that we can no longer learn more, or that we can no longer practice, and we need to keep our focus on improvements to the safety aspect and prevention work. I am therefore humble about the serious incident in Kabul, which resulted in great losses both for individuals and families at home in Norway and also in Afghanistan. I therefore believe it is important that we try to learn from it, sail if it is not possible to predict any event. And, as I said, the work of the Committee and the treatment of the Storting today greatly contribute to making it easier to learn such lessons. At the hearing of the Committee in March, it was informed that a working group was set up at ministerial level under the direction of the Ministries of the Ministry of Justice. This working group is in full swing. Its mandate is to review the procedures for planning and implementing the security of foreign service claims for policy management and the staff of the Department and, where appropriate, accompanying groups, including press. In this context, an assessment shall be made as to whether current arrangements meet the need or whether adjustments are necessary. The work is now in the final phase, and the report will be sent to me shortly. Work will result in concrete proposals to improve and ensure the security of all the members of the delegation who are travelling, and one will also follow up many of the measures taken, including the Minister for Foreign Affairs. was in the room. And, as the Foreign Minister also pointed out, to ensure that, in particular, the press is given the opportunity to comment on the broad lines of the measures that will be proposed, and to improve and respond to their security needs, a meeting is already being held in June between the Working Party and the Press Security Committee. I also point out that at the turn of the year 2007/2008, a joint analysis unit was established between the Intelligence Service and the Police Security Service, initially for a probationary period of two years. The aim is to make the most effective use of the resources of the two services in the preparation of analyses on the threat of international terrorism. I will help to ensure that the conclusions of the Committee and the facts presented and the assessments made are now taken into account in the further work and to ensure that the Stortinget will be properly informed in a timely manner about new measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e439	I want to be the case rapporteur for this extensive and, in part, difficult matter just to stress that I believe it has been a useful and instructive process for all of us, at least it has been for me personally. I also note that a number of measures have been taken, improvements in procedures and arrangements for travel and safety, mainly by the U.D., but also by other departments, that the process has been useful and that it was right that we started it. So, of course, we can continue to discuss how it should have been put up, but I think we should also settle that discussion today. I would like to thank and praise the ministers concerned, especially Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre, for the sensitivity and openness of answering questions and enquiries from the Committee. I think we owe them that. The incident had a tragic outcome, and - as other speakers have said - we cannot, of course, be sure that it will not happen again. You can never guard against that. But we believe that on the basis of what has happened, and with the lessons drawn from it, we are somewhat better rusted up in view of any future event. We don't know that, but that's our hope. And even though it went very wrong, it could have gone even worse. We must also bear that in mind. After all, we've seen a lot of things have been done right. It also needs to be involved in a matter like this. So, of course, in a matter like this, it's inevitable that no one in the system who has been involved in this, feels affected by the criticism, and that sometimes the criticism has been too hard. I'm not going to say that much about it, because it's often the case that in a heated situation you use words you might not want to use. I think it's inevitable. But precisely in the light of the changes that have been made, and the measures taken by different bodies, I think we must be able to say that the process has been useful.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e450	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 3590]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e466	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 65 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no opportunity for a replacement of lines, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e475	In principle, all those engaged in economic activity are taxable persons for income from the activity. This also applies to those who engage in activities that are generally accepted in society as being good. However, the size has adopted an important exception, namely for those who have no acquisition as their object. The logical consequence is that the research institute is taxable when it has acquisitions as its object. In that case, they shall be treated in the same way as other commercial actors. Those who do not have acquisitions as their objects shall not pay income taxes. The decision as to whether a device complies with the non-profit condition must be based on an independent assessment of the statutes and activities of this device. The proposalers and the minority are reasonably concerned with research and that more research is to be done and facilitated. The plural portions share that intention. But at the same time, on a general basis, we believe that we should be careful to focus too much on the tax system in order to achieve all kinds of good policy goals. Then you will easily find yourself in the situation of eroding the system - a situation we have been in in the past, and for which broad tax settlements have put an end to it. In the opinion of the rapporteur, the concern related to the tax liability has largely been about the extent to which this will affect EU support schemes. I understand that such a threat triggers unrest. Norwegian research communities are dependent on the EU Framework Programme for Research, which is also widely mentioned in the last week’s issue of the Morning Paper. Unlike some later to believe, thanks to the EEA Agreement, Norway is strongly integrated into the EU, and Norwegian university and higher education environments would have major problems if the EEA Agreement were terminated. This issue is about whether the fiscal policy we have in Norway will affect the allocation of research programmes by the European Commission. In the view of the majority, any tax obligation would not affect the permitted aid intensity of the EU. The EU Regulation contains no reference to national rules for the assessment of non-profit status. In this context, we have looked at an example that relates to a particular Member State and the Commission, i.e. the correspondence between the Commission and the Dutch Research Institute TNO. The Commission has had a broad basis for assessing the issue of non-profit status and it is difficult to claim that a tax exemption has been decisive in that case. Research institutions that become taxable persons will have the same accounting and reporting obligations as other taxpayers. I can't see that this work will be a heavy burden at the expense of the Institute's research and development activities. However, whether there will be significant consequences in relation to the EU Framework Programme, which is at the heart of this matter, and which the SINTEF environment fears, we will get back to the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e494	What this is all about is the framework conditions for the research institutes. This case is also linked to the SINTEF research foundation and four subsidiaries, which are subject to tax for the first time in 50 years. If you are engaged in research and development, the framework conditions for the research institute are very important. The proposal seeks to exempt the research institutes which receive basic government licences from tax obligations. This is a collective opposition behind it, while the government party is opposed to the proposal. I was not too over-explained either by the comments in the settings or by the arguments of the case spokesperson. If you're busy getting research and development in Norway, basic research is also important, and then you don't have to start imposing a tax liability that involves a change and a new policy from the Government. The case-leader was also concerned with the problem that a tax obligation could lead to a reduction in the rights of EU researchers. There is quite a concrete argument to suggest that this may be the case, and I think it makes sense that the EU may not be so willing to allow money to be spent on research if parts of the research funds in the worst case can end up in the Norwegian state register, which is not just missing money. The Soria Moria statement also states that one should increase the research effort to 3 pst. GDP by 2010. We have no further explanation on how the government party and government will meet that goal. It might have been interesting, if there are more from the government party to take the floor in this debate, to know how one has intended to achieve that goal, when one now weakens the framework conditions of the research institute. This means that one also weakens the framework for actions such as the Tax Fund, and then it is interesting to know how to meet the objective of a 3 pst research effort. GDP. Research and development are important in the longer term. It's important if we're to have something to live off in the future. It is important that we have research and development and innovation, and it is important that we make the most of it. So it wants the minority, the total opposition, to do it here. That's not what the government wants. Then I just want to end by re-presenting the minority proposal from a collective opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e511	The representative, Mr Gjermund Hagesetter, put forward the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e514	I am very disappointed and amazed at the majority in this matter. The government and the majority of the population weaken the position of Norwegian research institutes in international competition for research missions through their position in the case. The whole of the case is based on the order of Frosting Lawyers from 2007, which states that the Sintef Research Foundation and four subsidiaries are subject to tax. This judgment thus invalidates 50 years of comparative practice which requires that the research institutes in Norway should not be taxed. This practice is based on the fact that research institutes have purpose paragraphs that clearly state that they are non-profit-making. Nor is it the case that the Norwegian research institute sector has concluded a kind of social contract with the state, and it is mentioned in the Research Communication. The research institutes have the task of being an instrument for industrial development and contributing to an increase in the knowledge base. On this basis, the research institutes have been considered as non-profit institutions. Therefore, a general tax requirement for such institutions will have the sole consequence of reducing the funding for research and innovation. SINTEF is the clearly largest Norwegian player in the EU research programme. In more than 320 projects, SINTEF has been supported through the 5th, 6th and 7th Framework Programmes. The EU has three different definitions: universities, non-commercial institutions and commercial establishments. Non-commercial institutions receive up to 75 pst. EU funding for projects related to the EU Framework Programmes. Commercial establishments receive up to 50 pst. With a reduction to 50 pst. participation in many EU projects will not be possible. It would be harmful for Norway and Norwegian research if SINTEF and other research institutes are classified as commercial activities. It seems clear to me that the majority of the Committee considers that SINTEF has the objective of acquiring and thus operating on a commercial basis. This view is contrary to what is stated in the research report, and this is where the big problem arises. I strongly disagree that SINTEF has acquisitions as its object and that it should be treated in the same way as other commercial enterprises. SINTEF is a non-profit and societal activity that conducts research for the benefit of society. Sintef does not have any owners who make dividends and the profits from the research activities go to investments in laboratories, other scientific equipment and knowledge development. It will have major consequences if the authorities consider the research institutes to be commercial establishments. This could damage Norwegian participation in EU research programmes, where SINTEF has a special position. The letter from the Minister of Finance shows that it accepts the view of the court that SINTEF has the objective of acquiring it, but that this will not, however, be essential for the EU to regard SINTEF as a ‘non-profit research organisation’, as it says. This is where I think it's going to be demanding to follow the reasoning of the Council of State. How can the Norwegian authorities in their communication with the EU claim that, on the one hand, they are a commercial operator and, at the same time, a non-profit organisation? It is natural that the spokesmen of the government clarify the government's view of this. So far, I haven't said anything about the fact that SINTEF here is going to get $30 million. less to be used for investment in research and development. There would have been affluent funds after the years of cutting-off in research.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e544	In Norway, all economic operators are generally taxable for income from their activities, but we are not talking about rules without exception here either. Such an important exception makes the tax law applicable to devices which do not have as their object: to exempt them from the obligation to pay taxes on wealth and income. Moreover, from January 2008, a general tax exemption has been introduced for research foundations receiving basic appropriations from the State. In the case of income taxes, research institutes are taxable if they have acquisitions as their object. That means they're doing business. Therefore, in our opinion, they should be treated in the same way as other commercial actors in the tax context. In the setting, the opposition parties express concern. They are concerned about the increased workload this entails for these institutions - that they need to spend time on other than research and development - and they are concerned about what the necessary evidence, for example in relation to self-declaration requirements, will entail. It says even that this ‘will reduce the possibility of having the necessary focus on increasing research and innovation efforts and thus also have implications for Norway’s overall research policy ambitions’. It's possible I'm wrong, but I'm going to think that this kind of institution, as well as research, has order in its papers and management with its financial arrangements. In Norway, we expect every street kitchen and coffee bar to take care of their accounting, their VAT duties and tax returns. I find it difficult to understand that the same tasks were to burden research institutions in a dramatic way and give cause for concern. Given a certain amount of the institutions, they will in any case have an accounting obligation and an obligation to make annual financial statements - tax liability or not. The opposition parties further wonder at the majority’s view that the taxable profits in the sector are small and that there are only a few institutions that would have to pay income taxes, and this is an argument to support the proposal they promote. I record that the opposition parties do not dispute our view that the level of tax claims against the research institutes will be small. In my political everyday life, it is more important to do something about the big problems than with the small ones. That it may seem the opposite is the case for the proposers, I take note. In addition, the minority is astonished by the majority’s assessment of the possible tax obligations of research institutes and the possibility of funding from EU research funds – that a tax obligation could lead to a reduction of the aid intensity allowed from 75 pst. to 50 pst. We support here the letter from the Ministry of Finance of 3 April 2008 and join in the assessments made here, namely that the tax obligation or not according to national law is not included as a criterion, and that any tax obligation or any explicit tax exemption for research institutes will not be decisive for the assessment by the European Commission of whether the research institution qualifies for the term ‘non-profit research organisation’. The opposition parties consider these assessments to be based on what they call a ‘reasonably detached sentence’ from the EU Research Council’s 7th Framework Programme project. Well, then maybe one could expect the same batches to have at least a ‘unraved sentence’ as the basis for their assessment that tax liability means reduced aid. If there is any experience or document that is likely to do so, it is all right if it is also presented to us. If it's just visual, it can be as it says. We record that the Progress Party, the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party are all concerned, puzzled and astonished at our rejection of the proposal to introduce tax exemptions for research institutes receiving basic funding from the state. There's no reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e576	It is central that the Government stimulates a highly professional research in priority and defined areas where we face particularly major challenges. We have a number of research institutions that do a good job of following it up. What matters now is the taxation of the income of some research institutes. So, as many people have said, it does not apply to property taxes; it does not apply to income taxes on research institutes that have acquired as their objects. It is a little strange to notice that the opposition is not more principled in this matter. Where would it end if one went into principles that undermined the principle of equality? The research enterprises which have acquired as their objects have income taxation. If research institutions which also have basic government appropriations were to get rid of income taxes, that would be a very unfair situation. That is why we are very clear here that the rules must be such that the Institutes have to choose the organisational model and the purposes for which they want to conduct their research. If you choose the model and purposes that have been acquired centrally in your business - well, there will also be income tax. The Institutes are facing a choice. They may choose different models or other purposes, thus avoiding income taxation. So the choice is up to the research institutes' sea level.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e587	There will be an improper fluke over the debate when a representative of the Central Party, who has just proclaimed in his programme that we should simplify, go up to the pulpit and speak like an average bureaucracy. It's not good when you're going to do something. It's another cross of thought that a government that's been worried about not getting enough research into the interface with business, when you can do something, do what you do in this case - then towards a total opposition - and then we know that the government hasn't yet taken over that, for example. The tax FUNN scheme is best placed as a tax incentive scheme and not as a different, managed scheme. We know that what makes it possible to get a dynamic where groups can still go into research is the challenge. This is the government that made a budget for the first year, got money for the gift-enhancing scheme from Trond Mohn in Bergen. At that time, State Council Djupedal had to move funds from another part of the research budget in order to be able to sign the grant. Later, the Government has corrected it. It's a difficult debate in Norway; we're worried that we're not getting enough of what we can research in free institutions, and not getting enough of what we can do about business. After that concern is targeted by everyone, including the government parties, one chooses to get away with gift reinforcements first, but settles down. Then you haven't land so far wrong, and at least you have the opportunity to land right in terms of TaxFUNN. And then this case comes about SINTEF, which breaks, as it is so right in the setting, a 50-year-old tradition. Then you take the chance, in a sentence that, in my opinion, is detached from an EU/EEA document, that you should still be treated with mercy when you go out into the world and work together. This is to approach research policy and free action in research policy in a way that does not provide any clean development or opportunity. This is, of course, the idea that there is no room for entrepreneurs, whether they are entrepreneurs who meet research, or researchers who meet entrepreneurs. It is made known as either directly in our business community or through the difficult Norwegian institute sector. And the mother of the Norwegian institute sector -- the mother of all the institutes at some point -- is Sintef. It's clear that in that situation it's going to be strange that the government parties are almost defending themselves by talking like it's not so dangerous, it's going to be all right on the way. But that's not the signals you can send out into the landscape we stand in. You have to show that you want something. In the left we have the attitude that we are comforting ourselves that this matter may be going on as it finally went on with the taxation of power plants, and as it finally went with the rest cut in the basic funding of our universities and colleges: When the government has had a small colloquial group and got something to think about, it comes right out at the end. But it's so stupid that you have to take that round first. The councils who are sitting here know very well how much it cost both the government and her party to maneuver with the cutting of rest as long as you did, until it came to grips with the revised national budget. Then you had blood for it for a year and a half. It is almost incredible that you should act and speak that way when you are concerned about Norwegian research efforts. But my amazement is only expressed in clear speech from the Great Council, and then I'll end up with what I've been through in the past in this post, that it's always good to turn around in time, as it's called in the Mountain Vet Rules. It happened with the power plant tax, and it happened with the rest cutting for universities and colleges. And such groups of colloquial groups are my followers. But on the way forward, at least the Left with great joy will indicate that the initiative we were on, we are in agreement with the other opposition for here today. It is necessary to be a policy driver, to say from when we think something is wrong. The dividing lines are clear in the committee position and in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e602	I do not have so much to add to this debate as speakers from the government parties have been involved. But let me just stress that this is not about the Storting dealing with tax matters for one particular institution. It's about having some non-discrimination guidelines in any case. It's not something very bureaucratic. There's something we have to take into account all the way around, that we make sure you don't have tax or tax systems that make you pick individual institutions or single purposes, but we can have lines to deal with tax issues all the way around. Then, as several speakers have pointed out, the financial instruments are initially taxable for income from that activity. But there are some exceptions, and it creates the tax code. These are exemptions for the property and income tax obligations of devices which do not have acquisitions for their purpose. We have made a change in the tax law in this field. With effect from 1 January 2008, a general asset tax exemption has been introduced for research foundations receiving basic appropriations from the State. It was well received in the sector. Research institutions that become taxable persons will have the same accounting and reporting obligations as other taxpayers. I find it difficult to see that this would be a greater burden for them than it is for all the other small businessmen, on whom the representative Lund Bergo was involved, who are also obliged to comply with the tax rules. The tax liability, if any, will not affect the authorised aid intensity of the EU. It is very clear that the EU Regulation contains no reference to what may be the national tax rules, i.e. those of each country, when assessing what is non-profit status. The determination of whether a device meets non-profit conditions must be based on an independent assessment of the statutes and activities of the institution in question. There is a wide correspondence between the Commission and the Dutch Research Institute TNO. The Commission has had a broad basis for assessing the issues of non-profit status. In my opinion, there is no basis for claiming that a tax exemption has been decisive. It assumes that some EU or EEA countries will be able to bind the Commission in their assessment of non-profit status by adopting national rules on the tax status of the facility. There are a lot of good purposes that would very much like to have special tax rules or tax exemptions. But sometimes the boundaries have to go, and they have to be understandable to other institutions as well. It is such a kind of thing that we are facing today. As for the kind of ambitions and the level of support we should have in relation to research, where I share the commitment of the representative of Dørum, there are both direct budgetary appropriations and many other ways of ensuring that we have a high level and clear ambitions in this field, without at the same time making changes to the tax rules that are perceived as unfair to others.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e614	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3590]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e630	The representative proposal of the members of the Progress Party Gjermund Hagesetter, Ulf Leirstein, Christian Tybring-Gedde and Jørund Rytman contains proposals to raise the limit of duty-free imports from NOK 200, as we have today, to NOK 1000, further that the limit is adjusted in line with the consumer price index. The proposal has been promoted several times earlier, under different governments. And this time, as in the past, the proposal only receives the own votes of the Progress Party. The proposal is justified on the basis of consumer considerations. It may appear that the rationale for the proposal is based on an idea that this scheme is a kind of parallel to the tax-free system at airports, ferries abroad, etc. It's not. The background to the scheme is that in Norway, as in most countries, VAT is calculated on the turnover of goods. The general rule is that this applies to either the goods are purchased at the store, ordered from the Norwegian online store, or imported from a foreign online store, in order to ensure that the fee is the same for the goods consumed in Norway, regardless of where they are purchased. If not, it would obviously lead to a competitive disadvantage for Norwegian shops that would have to compete with non-resident online shops that do not pay VAT either in the country of dispatch or in the country of destination. The exemption for goods that cost less than NOK 200, which is exempt from VAT and therefore also from customs treatment, is justified for administrative reasons and is simpler and more user-friendly. In the period from March 1999 to March 2001, the scheme was terminated, and we had in this period the calculation of the premium from the first kroner. The rationale for this was to take into account the competitive situation of Norwegian industry. When one chose to return to the 200-kr duty-free limit scheme in 2001, it was due to practical disadvantages for Customs, i.e. not consumer considerations. However, it is obvious that this is perceived as, and is, a good thing for consumers. In the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s, imports were largely for the few, for those particularly interested in seeking goods that were not available in Norway. Much of this was music and films that were not to be bought in Norway. In the last ten years, the use of networks and online commerce has exploded and is increasing. On the Internet, there are many providers, and the competition for customers and the range of products is large. This is good for consumers. The problem in this context is the consequence for Norwegian traders to compete with non-resident operators who do not have to pay VAT. Our task will then be to balance practical considerations for Customs and customers against the Norwegian sole proprietorship. The majority therefore conclude that the limit should remain at SEK 200, which is nevertheless a disadvantage for Norwegian enterprises but a disadvantage that is acceptable. The right, left and Christian People's Party has a proposal to raise $400 in the 2009 state budget. Consumer considerations are also emphasised here, and reference is made to the fact that the limit has not been changed in more than 30 years. At the same time, they are aware that a price adjustment of NOK 1 000 would have disproportionately affected the traders. Therefore, one chooses a solution by choosing the double of today's amount without any further justification for why. It may seem to consumers that we do not regularly change the limit of duty-free imports. I must then refer to the main reason earlier, namely that the scheme is not established on the grounds of being a consumer good, but on the grounds of administrative simplification. It is not that government parties will never be able to change the border of duty-free imports, but such a change must come because the Customs and Fee Directorate finds it appropriate, as well as that we consider the consequences for Norwegian traders to be acceptable. This is probably the first time I quote former Minister of Finance Per-Kristian Foss, at least where I agree with the whole quote. In his letter to the same proposal, he wrote on 10 March 2005: ‘An attempt must be made here to strike a balance between the smoothest possible introduction for consumers and the need for a level playing field for Norwegian business.’ In Document No: The 8th proposal of the Progress Party representatives states that it is not the VAT that is the biggest problem with the low level of duty-free imports, but the high fee charged by the Post as a monopoly company. As the Minister of Finance also writes in his letter of 10 April, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the postal package market was put on a competitive footing from 1 July 2003. The post office no longer calculates the fee for packages below the value limit of 200 kroner. For packages with a value of between 200 and 1000 kroner, the Post will charge a fee of 92 kroner. We may disagree on the amount limits for duty-free imports, but we all agree, as I see it, that we want to make the system we have as flexible and reasonable as possible for consumers. We are therefore pleased that the Customs and Charges Directorate is developing a payment solution for Internet customs clearance to facilitate customs clearance for individuals. This is based on being able to pay online. Pilot operations have also been carried out on certain simplifications in customs clearance procedures for parcel consignments. These shall facilitate the tolling of large quantities of packages by operators transmitting consignments. The justification of the proposers emphasises that the amount of duty-free imports has not changed over 30 years. And yes, I agree that at first thought this seems unreasonable. But it's okay to think about something. The first one should consider, is whether $200 is an ok limit, or whether a wish changed upwards, and what consequences it would have. What we have to include in the assessments are the following: Internet/computer skills have made purchases and imports over the Internet incredibly much easier. Online trade has exploded and is increasing rapidly. A quantity of goods suitable for online commerce has become much, much cheaper in recent years. For example, a DVD player, who six or seven years ago cost NOK 5000, can now get less than NOK 500. Clear simplifications have been made in terms of payment/toll/consignment. Competition in the market is greater than ever, for the benefit of consumers. People are more mobile, and we already see that the whole of Norway acts as one market. Typical things that are traded at today's limit are music, movies, games, contact lenses, etc. A raising of the limit to 1000 kroner opens up to a completely different world. What kind of products are we talking about? I want to take consumer electronics. This is the same type of product ‘world wide’ - it is an international guarantee and it is an international brand. If you look at the number of electronic products sold in the year in Norway, you will see that for cameras it is about approx. 500000, for mp3 players 200000, for clock radios 60000, for travel radios/board radios 320000 and for DVD players 450,000. As one can see, for this product group alone, more than one and a half million products sold. If one third of these costs more than NOK 1000, one of them is left with approx. one million units sold by Norwegian traders who will compete overnight with others initially making 25 pst. preluded on price. One does not need black, at least had his head in order to understand the consequences for Norwegian dealers and Norwegian jobs if this should happen. If it was the case that we were only consumers, the proposal to raise the limit to NOK 1000 was a good proposal. As citizens of society, we also need to have a greater understanding and take responsibility for more than our own consumption. I refer to the comments of the majority of the committee and to the Committee's recommendation that the proposal in Document No. 8:72 not adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e688	As the rapporteur, Magnar Bergo, said, it is not the first time that we in the Progress Party propose to raise the customs duty-free import limit from NOK 200 to NOK 1000. So I expect that most people are familiar with what the matter is, which the case rapporteur has also explained correctly. The tragic and interesting thing about this is that most of the parties, except for the Central Party, as far as I'm aware, have promised the voters that they will raise the border. So when we in the Progress Party for the third time in a few years propose here in Stortingen to raise it, I had hoped that several parties had supported us. The limit of NOK 200 has been fixed for as long as I can remember. It may not be so strange, as it has actually remained silent for as long as I have lived, and longer than that. We have to go back to 1975, when this customs frontier was introduced. With an indexation to the current level, it would have, as you know, been NOK 1000. As the Minister of Finance writes in the letter of reply to the Financial Committee, the number of shipments in the EUR 0 000 to NOK 1000 is relatively high. It was approx. 317,000 tolls to a value of approximately 46 million. kr for the first nine months of last year. Adjusted to 12 months it will be approx. 60 million. kr. So it's not the big sums that the state misses customs revenue. But what the finance minister hasn't figured out -- at least don't write or say anything about -- is how much all the bureaucracy with these 317,000 customs duties cost Customs and Post, how much resources the government spends on this, and, perhaps the most important thing, how much time the people, the consumers, spend on tolling the shipments. The great counter-argument in the matter now - yes, it is almost incredible to hear it - is the consideration of the needs of the Norwegian business community and the need for a level playing field. This is not so often heard from representatives of the Socialist Left Party, at least not with regard to all other business matters that we have dealt with here in the Storting lately, or taken up with the Government, such as. non-competitive Norwegian industry, which certainly does not have the same framework conditions as those in other countries. But all of a sudden, in this case, you use it as an argument. Anyway, I actually think raising the border will have minimal significance for Norwegian business. This will probably lead to some people, for example: perhaps buys a computer game, which is mostly produced abroad, from a foreign online store, rather than buying it from a Norwegian online store or a Norwegian retailer, with the disadvantages that you then have. If, for example: is in need of a complaint or similar, it may not always be as good to send the product back to e.g. Japan and then wait to get it back again. In comparison, there are not so many people who buy charter tours to the south from Sweden, although you can actually save several thousand dollars on it. A few do it - I have actually done it myself a few times - but most people think it is safest and more convenient to buy via a Norwegian travel agency. Furthermore, there are many cases where it is not possible for the consumer to obtain a product in Norway. You might have special interests in certain areas -- either in culture or whatever. You want that product from abroad and you have to import it yourself. So it's an unnecessary intermediary that's going to have money for that job, as well as it's going to take an incredibly long time. In short, the party of progress is on the side of consumers in this matter. I had also hoped that the parties that have promised their voters to raise the limit, also votes to raise it. So I am pleased that the other non-socialist parties here in the Grand Duchy are now promoting the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to the State budget for 2009 with an adjusted amount limit for duty-free imports of approximately SEK 400.’ I would then like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party, to raise the amount limit to NOK 1000. I expect the President to put up the vote so that there will be a vote on the proposals of the Advancement Party first. I realise that there is a risk of our proposal falling, and we in the Progress Party will then subsidly support the proposal of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e719	The representative Jørund Rytman has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e724	The representative Rytman was amazed at SV's concern for business. I would like to draw the attention of the representative Rytman to the fact that the undersigned has been engaged in imports and retail sales as a self-employed person for more than 20 years. So care comes from the heart. What surprises me more is that in this case the Progress Party, which usually speaks loudly about Norwegian businessmen, does not find its way to the heart. The progress party is usually concerned about the problem of increased border trade. This is precisely the reason why it gives lost sales in Norway and is therefore a threat to Norwegian jobs. It must be allowed to ask the representative Rytman: will not a duty-free limit of NOK 1000 have exactly the same effect, with the loss of Norwegian jobs as a consequence?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e731	No, no, no. As I said in my post, I think it would actually get minimal significance, with the examples I used. With regard to SV's fight for a level playing field, I can show enough examples that foreign business actually has a number of other advantages, such as: in the case of tax relief and predictability, which I have also brought up with the Government and here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e738	In my post, I started from just one industry, as I showed that there is a probability that one million products sold will fall below the 1000 kroner limit if they are taken directly from abroad. These are products that are currently traded in Norwegian shops and online shops. I believe that the representative Rytman believes that it is subject to competition on one million products that cost about NOK 1000, for Norwegian retail shops and on the Internet, which then have to take over offers of the same product outside Norway at prices that are initially 25 pst. under, do not have any impact on turnover and jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e745	Yes, in fact, I think it will be of little significance, but of course there will be a certain change among consumers, in line with everything else when there are changes. But, as I mentioned, to use my tourism example: actually, many people who travel to the South every year, but if you look at the numbers, it's actually a minimal number who cross the border with Sweden and travel from, for example, Sweden. Gothenburg and saves several thousand dollars on it. In fact, in this case, I believe that we should be on the consumer side.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e754	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e757	Let me first give my compliments to the rapporteur, who has done an unusually thorough research on the volume of imports. As interested in business, I must also thank him for the concern he has for Norwegian business in this matter. There may be some absence of it in other things from SV's side, but we're grateful for everything that comes. The rapporteur has pointed out the problem of this proposal, which has been the case all along. It is important that consumers get a light everyday life, that it is simplification, but on the other hand they have a business to take into account. There is the balance between the two considerations that you have had to do in this case. The rapporteur refers not to the current Minister of Finance, but to the former Minister of Finance, Per-Kristian Foss, with a quote that we must try to find a balance here. That's right. That's what's going on. I hardly think former Minister of Finance Per-Kristian Foss thought, either in that case or in other matters, that a balance in economic matters will always be the same. Obviously, it's going to change. There is some background to the fact that, on this occasion, we believe that development of value in society has now gone so far that it should be possible to increase this limit somewhat in order to allow it to weigh slightly in the balance of consumers. That's why we're in favour of a proposal to raise the limit to 400 kroner. We are in agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party on this proposal. I take up the proposal herein.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e766	The representative of the Svein Fleet has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e770	I would like to assure the representative of the fleet's honor to the case rapporteur in this case, because I think that the case rapporteur has gone through very thoroughly what would have become the reality of many small businesses if the proposal of the Progress Party had gone through, and what is counter-representation to that proposal, which I would like to admit that I have become more aware of later on. It's e.g. so Sweden doesn't even have a limit of SEK 200, they have a 0 limit. So if we had gone in for a limit of 1000 kroner or raised the limit, we would have introduced a system that made it very clear that there were distortions between the sole proprietors who drove from Sweden and the sole proprietors in Norway. I don't think you can imagine how many traders it would be that could have a clear and serious competitive disadvantage with it. In addition to those in which the representative Bergo was involved, who may be involved in the music, film and engineering industries, there may be many opticians, because it will be very easy to send packages of contact lenses from Sweden instead of buying them from an optician in Norway, etc., etc. We can make that list very long. I get many enquiries from small businessmen who just pointed this out. You do not believe that this proposal is going through today. That's why we don't have them on the field today. But at the moment that we had raised that limit to NOK 1000, I'm going to promise you -- sorry, President: the representatives -- that very much of the back of this had come out. One thing is the scope. Another thing that I have become more aware of is that there is no other country - as I know - that has such schemes, which therefore discredits its own business and favours traders abroad. There are two good arguments against the proposal. Of course, it is always the case that we have to see whether it is causing such great disadvantages to consumers that we should nevertheless make some reliefs, but I believe that we have found a reasonably good balance for this. We have to expect consumers to become much more - what to say - internationally oriented in an increasingly globalized world. Then it's actually fair that we take into account our own business, so that they have about the same rules, regardless of which side of the boundaries they might be on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e781	As many people have been involved, this case has been dealt with several times in this room. Several parties have promoted it in their alternative state budgets, and several times the Progress Party has promoted so-called Document No. 8-proposal, representative proposal, where we have raised this matter, and now we have taken it up again. The matter actually begins in many ways to become a parody on a political matter, not because it has been raised many times, but the big problem here is clearly that all those who have repeatedly promised that they would do something about this system, namely raise the limit, once they have the opportunity to secure a majority of the proposal, actually run from their election promises. It worries me. It is the case that a number of traders have been mentioned in Norway and their woes and well, and that is to a large extent important arguments that one would like to make. But there is something that amazes me greatly. It's that from promising this a few years ago, you're now, all of a sudden, you've been hacking up opponents and using a lot of the opposite arguments of those you had a short time ago. You can only go back to just before the last big shot, when the red-green got a majority. In front of the election, there were a lot of clear signals from the red-green parties that if they only got power and got rid of the Bondevik II government, they would make sure to raise the limit -- and even raise it to NOK 1000, that is, exactly what the Progress Party has proposed today, last year and several times before that time. The reason why I think this is actually a big deal -- I also want to add that those of us who use the web a lot, who are on many chat forums, see how many network users are very busy -- is that this is a matter that network users are very concerned about. And a lot of people, including those who are signed, are eager to trade online even in the rest of the world. This is something that means a lot to a lot of consumers, and I'm glad that the Progress Party is the party that holds the tab high when it comes to caring for consumers' interests in this case. But just before the 2005 big shot, one week before, there were several representatives of several parties out in the media - and it was obviously a good time - and was quite clear that this limit should be increased. And the news that was "sold out" and that the red-greens didn't dement at all was that if the red-greens got a majority in 2005 - and that got them knowingly - they were going to increase it. I note that the former Labour Party spokesperson, Svein Roald Hansen, said to Dagbladet.no that the current 200-kroner limit was too low and that the party would propose an increase in the customs limit of 1 000 kroner if they were in position. Financial adviser in SV, Bernt Sverre Mehammer -- I think actually he's a consultant in the SV's fraction yet -- said SV was positive to increase the money limit, without wanting to figure out how high it should be. Morten Lund, a member of the Financial Committee of the Central Party, said to Dagbladet.no that today's limit was pointless, among others. because of the increased paperwork at such a low limit. He suggested that the proposed limit of DKK 1 000 of the Progress Party could be reasonable. Even the Left had said that they would go to a party program where they would increase the limit to NOK 1000. In this case, the Left now proposes to increase it to NOK 400. The right and Christian People's Party would not increase the limit, and I note and am so pleased that they are now taking part in a proposal to increase it to NOK 400. The problem is that you have simply changed your positions, you have changed your argument. While former Minister of Finance Per-Kristian Foss was strong in the argument against the proposal, SV leader Kristin Halvorsen's subjects were very clear on the need for an increase. Now SV's dear leader has become Minister of Finance and has found the notes to Per-Kristian Foss, and uses them in her rhetoric when she is now going to oppose the proposal and run from the election promises. That's what I think is problematic. Then I register that the case-rapporteur and the representatives of the red-greens in their eagerness to run away from the election vows choose to use a number of arguments that in many ways actually speak against the whole scheme. If it is the case that the whole scheme is such a big problem: why not every day propose to remove the whole scheme, including the limit of 200 kroner? Based on the reasoning given to the rapporteur, the point was that now many of the products that you could buy abroad had dropped so heavily that I almost heard him say that the 200-krona limit was a problem. I think it's okay that there's a disagreement about things. The problem in this case is that those who promised that they would secure a majority in order to increase the limit - and promised a number of consumers that this would be done - run from their promises as soon as they are in position. It is worrying, as the Progress Party sees it. But I am pleased that the Progress Party is holding the tab high in this case - on the consumer's side.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e816	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e819	If the representative Leirstein had heard what I said, and not referred to what he thought he heard that I said or meant, we might have a real debate. Almost all the parties in the room have had representatives who have, in some context, wanted to raise the limit here, and it has been from a one-sided consumer perspective. Then it must actually be possible for others, who may have a different background than these peoples, to get on the track and promote other views here. And like I say, we're not locked at NOK 200. I said in my post that it was tried. It is precisely because the treatment arrangements are so expensive and so heavy for Customs that they found it appropriate to introduce the old scheme. We support that. We're saying if we're going to raise the sum, it should be anchored that way. It's not a consumer matter at all; it's a customs matter. So to the question. Concern was expressed by the representatives of the Progress Party here regarding the monopoly company Posten. I expect that Leirstein agrees that there is no monopoly on this market anymore, and that it is good that the Post Office has removed charges for packages below NOK 200, and that a charge of NOK 92 for packages up to NOK 1000 is not so bad. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e828	Now the president was very liberal, because the president thought that this might save you a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e831	I was concerned that the replicator also used up my response time, but then I realize that it has not happened. Of course, it's the thing that it's been opened up to also in the case of the monopoly company Posten. But I think most, like consumers, actually experience the Post, with its services, which are still monopolistic in this area. But we are hoped that competition will be stronger in the years to come, and that we will be able to soften the legislation even more in order to have a real competition here in the country. But I'm worried when replicator Lund Bergo says that this is not a consumer case, that it's a customs matter. Customs are very much just about consumer questions. It is a little worrying that SV does not see it. If you see the commitment in this case, it's clear that there are a lot of consumers who are concerned about this limit, who have been silent since 1975, i.e. for over 30 years. I record that the SV's spokesman says that you will not necessarily leave it at NOK 200 for ever. But how many decades do you have to wait before considering increasing this limit?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e840	For me, the limit may be changed at the next budget if the customs duty rate considers it appropriate, and if, together with the customs duty rate and other agencies, in particular the traders, we consider that a limit of, for example, 300 or 400 will be to live with for the industry. But the Progress Party's proposal is to raise the limit to NOK 1000. Then I have to ask the representative Ulf Leirstein if he has been talking to people in the electronics industry about the consequences of raising to NOK 1000. Does Ulf Leirstein think that it will not mean reduced turnover for these companies? Does Ulf Leirstein think that if we get a limit of NOK 1000, jobs will not be lost?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e847	I know the business well. I myself have worked seven years in the computer industry, so this is a field I know relatively well about. Of course, I have also talked to some businessmen who have been concerned about an increase. I don't mind using it as an argument. If you choose to pay attention to it - as I feel that the rapporteur does in his post - that is all right. The problem is that you have repeatedly promised to increase the limit. No one is going to tell me that in 2005, you didn't know about the counter-representations that the industry actually had. The question was, do I think the industry is going to have lower turnover and will have to cancel people if this proposal is introduced? - No, I don't think so. This industry is experiencing a huge growth. The fact that more people shop online, and that more people are also comfortable to shop online abroad, makes it possible for more people to move a good deal of further action to Norwegian online shops. Many of those who tend to shop products abroad trade niche products that are not found elsewhere. You are concerned about warranty rights, and you feel a better protection if you shop in Norwegian online shops. But a lot of strange things have to be done from foreign online shops. This does not mean that all their products are in direct competition with Norwegians.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e854	Let me then ask the representative Ulf Leirstein: What is it that prevents Norwegian online users from shopping at foreign online shops today?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e859	The problem here is bureaucracy, the problem is the price premium you get. So it seems that the Progress Party is concerned. In line with the concerns of very many consumers, namely the smoother and simpler arrangements for imports into Norway of the type of niche products, the Progress Party supports this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e864	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3591]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e882	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 65 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 20 minutes, the Advance Party 15 minutes, the Right 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes and the Left 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be no change of line, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Mr Sandal, who will be presenting the matter on behalf of the rapporteur, Mr Mikalsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e891	In Stortinget, four representatives of the Progress Party have put forward proposals for fuel taxes, in two stages. Firstly, progress party representatives propose a reduction in fuel taxes for 2008. This proposal was made on 12 March, and a request for a reduction of the fuel and car diesel tax by NOK 1.02 per person. litres from 1 May this year. During the examination of this proposal in the Financial Committee, I noted that the representatives of the Progress Party did not address their original proposal. On the other hand, they have replaced the original proposal with a proposal to reduce the petrol and car diesel tax by 2 kroner per year. litres from 1 July of this year. This new proposal is supported by the Financial Committee only by the representatives of the Progress Party. The second part of the Progress Party proposal is to introduce a flexible fuel charging system. The lot will have a system in place for the fuel charge to decrease when the oil price rises and vice versa. As a result, the Advance Party hopes to achieve that the fuel sales price will not change significantly due to changes in the oil price. This part of the proposal is also accepted by the Financial Committee only from the members of the Progress Party. I am pleased to note that all the other parties in the Financial Committee and in the Stortingen reject their proposals. The main reason why this happens is that the idea behind fuel taxes is that consumers actually have to pay for the costs incurred by the use of their vehicles. My point is that these costs come to mind, no matter what level we have on the oil price. What I mean is actually an important commitment in this context. If the price of fuel is to be stabilised by means of variable charges, this must lead to frequent changes in fuel charges. In this context, I would like to give you one illustration: The proposal of the Progress Party has been substantially changed from when it was originally launched on 12 March of this year until the Financial Committee gave its opinion on 29 May. It shows the impulsiveness and randomity of such a system. Another point is that there will be unclear conditions around the income of the country by having an ever-changing level of fees, which - whether they like it or not - provides large revenues to the state treasury, revenues that are a foundation for financing important welfare provision. I would like to stress that fuel taxes are, in fact, also an important part of fiscal policy. It cannot be that fiscal policy should be tightened when oil prices fall or vice versa when oil prices increase. It becomes irreplaceable and, in my opinion, also a logical inconsistency that is difficult to live with, to say it carefully. Work on the State budget will be very difficult if one is to work on such a principle. Another important rationale for the position taken by the majority of the financial committee in this matter is of an environmental policy nature. It is necessary, when the vast majority of us recognise that the climate challenges are significant, that we take them into account in the practical policy we are going to design. The consumption of fossil fuels, like diesel and petrol, we need to have the ambition to reduce in order to contribute to finding a solution to the climate challenges. I would also like to remind you that the Progress Party is making a corresponding proposal on fuel charges earlier in the current landfill period. That proposal got the same fate that they now have, and I'm glad. It's a central point that budgetary issues and important priorities in that context are at home in the annual budget debates, and I mean only there. It is unfair to make such proposals at more random times in the middle of the budget year. It also leads to an arbitrariness in the management of the State's revenue if such proposals are adopted. This I believe is a recognition that everyone who has been in the government offices has brought with them. Then it's important to look at a more practical aspect of the matter. I want to ask the question, what is the cost of fuel? In this context, I would like to point out that there are four important elements: one is the crude oil price, the other is the refinery machinery - and then I am thinking about the difference between the international market prices of petroleum product and the crude oil price - the third element is the gross margin on which oil companies and the negotiators base, and the fourth element is linked to the charges. The fees are one of four elements when we evaluate the fuel prices collected. All of these four components that I'm referring to are variable without necessarily having the variation being parallel. Moreover, the competitive relationship between the petrol dealers in our own country plays a certain role and can lead to different fuel prices in different parts of the country, precisely because competition is different. Some places have a negotiator more or less monopoly; other places can be price war between fuel negotiators. The price of both petrol and car diesel has risen sharply in recent times. The main reason is that the price of crude oil has increased. To a very small extent, charges have gone up. Oil prices are determined on the international market, and demand increases from large countries, such as the United States and Japan. China and India, in our time, are involved in pushing up the oil price. Reduced charges will not change these underlying conditions, and therefore lower charges may result - and I stress it - in oil companies and negotiators increasing their service without particularly benefiting consumers in Norway. What I mean is an important point in the debate on fuel taxes. The higher the fuel price means the higher the cost to the consumer. Of course, in isolation this is not desirable. I have no problem admitting it. It is easy to see that for some it can lead to an increase in the financial burden that may create difficulties for them. At the same time, increasing the price of fossil fuels will slow down consumption and make it more profitable to develop alternatives. It is one side of the matter that we must be aware of if we are to be progressive in environmental policy rather than in environmental policy. I would like to remind you of the experience we gained during oil price shocks in the 1970s, which actually showed that we were reasonably adaptable, and that we were reasonably innovative in adapting to the challenge we had then. The community worked well in the restrictions that one had. So I would say that the proposals from the Progress Party are to screen the price of some type of goods - petrol and automotive diesel in this context - from changes in international prices. It is difficult to see why it is more important to protect this product than other goods that also fluctuate in price. In fact, the cost of fuel is only a small part of the total cost of private cars. And then I'll jump under a couple of points in the end. In my opinion, the Progress Party is unclear and contradicts itself in its proposal. First, the batch proposes to introduce a flexible charging system to ensure that the selling price is not significantly altered as a result of changes in the oil price. At the same time, the same progress party representatives in their proposal claim that there are no policy-specific prices, because only the fee is being reduced. It's not the politicians who set the price. The price will therefore not be constant, as he would be under any price control. But if politicians decide the fee, they will automatically determine the price for consumers. What kind of system is the Progress Party actually thinking? How often are charges to be changed? And how much of that change in price should be compensated? The proposals put forward in this context actually mean that the Progress Party has to answer a number of questions. I must also say that I am surprised that the Progress Party, which in most political debates in this Chamber is doing a great deal of work on the fact that the price level is almost entirely market-based, is switching to another principle in this matter. There must be a new example of a populist line, because one assumes that there is something to focus on in the ongoing political debate. The time does not allow me to go into this question about fuel prices in this article. I expect that we will be able to do that when we debate the revised national budget later in the spring session. There is also a basis for a possible debate in that context. I just want to round off recommending the broad plural setting presented by the Financial Committee on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e929	I note here that the finance committee's leader, Sandal, is using gunfire against the Advance Party, probably to stop the uprising in his own row, which also seemed unimaginable that the fuel charges should be increased further. It is quite right, as the representative Sandal pointed out, that the Progress Party wants lower car-related taxes, both in terms of fuel, in terms of annual taxes, and in terms of entry taxes. These are also proposals that we make in connection with the ordinary state budgets. We are promoting this in the context of the 2008 State Budget, and I can also promise that we will promote new proposals for cuts when the 2009 State Budget is being discussed. But that's not the starting point for this case. It is not the case, as the representative Sandal claims, that we are tabling proposals on tax evasion at random times. This is a proposal that consistently indicates that the oil price has increased very strongly and is now much higher than what you predicted in the 2008 state budget. At the time of the adoption of the 2008 state budget, one assumed to have an average crude oil price of NOK 360 per year. Council Regulation (EC) No 1083/2006 of 20 December 2006 laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 1083/2006 as regards the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1083/2006 (OJ L 308, No is the price of approx. NOK 650 per year. barrel. As the representative Sandal also mentioned, the pump price consists of four elements. One is the crude oil price, which is variable, and which has been rising sharply in recent times. Then there's a gross margin for the refineries, and then there's a gross margin for the gas stations, and then there's one of the taxes to the state. Even with today's pump price level, the state took off with approx. 60 pst. of the pump price paid by the Billystane for petrol. When we adopted the State budget for 2008, one would thus have been allowed if the calculation of the crude oil price and the level of charges that had been agreed had been kept, a pump price would have been paid to the Billistan at approx. 11 kroner for both 95 octane and diesel. Now the price is 2.50 kroner higher - 13.50 kroner. That's what we're proposing here, we're going to reduce the rate of petrol by 2 kroner, and plus VAT, there's going to be a total reduction of 2.50 kroner, so we're going to get the pump price down to the level that Stortinget used in the 2008 government budget. Now there was a concern from the representative Sandal about incomes to the state, and that one cannot use higher oil prices to tighten up the state budget, etc. I would like to remind you that with today's crude oil price, the government can get a surplus of 150 billion kroner more than what was originally budgeted. So you can raise the surplus to the state from $350 billion to $500 billion. A decrease in the size we have proposed will cost a little over $3 billion on a half-year basis and at the base of $7 billion on an annual basis. Nevertheless, a surplus of 140-150 billion dollars will be greater than what you found a few months ago. The representative Sandal also stated that the cost of the car is the same regardless of the price of crude oil. It would be interesting if we could get these bills when it comes to cost estimates on the car, why the car costs just as much. Why do we have to charge $50 billion in car-related charges, while there are only $13 billion going out? And then it would also be interesting to know why the costs of a car are higher in Norway than they are in our neighboring country. Another thing is that if a person recovers what is the cost of car maintenance, he also has to collect what is the gain of car maintenance. We have had an slogan before: ‘Without the car Norway stops’, especially District Norway. It's clear that with the high increase in fuel that we've seen now, there's a lot of people in the transport industry that are starting to have problems. So this is a very good, sensible and thoughtful suggestion. What's interesting here is that a change in the crude oil price should also lead to a change in the level of the tax on petrol, not entirely new thoughts. I want to go back to the spring of 1986, when the Willoch government ran the country. It was then so-called the Easter Package. We then had the situation that the crude oil price had fallen very much - more than one had foreseen - which meant that the pump price to the car list was lower than what you thought in the state budget. I'll quote from St.prp first. No 59 for 1985-86, page 11: «The proposal can be seen in particular in view of the fact that the sharp fall in oil prices has contributed to a sharp decline in domestic sales prices of petrol.» And then there's a quote: ‘The proposed increase in fees could result in sales prices of petrol following the increase in fees at approximately the same level as last December’.» I also want to take a quote from Innst. S. No 140 for 1985-86. There is a note from the members of the Committee of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party. This is on page 22 of the setting: ‘These members would point out that these developments have given those using petrol an unintended increase in their purchasing power compared to the assumptions of the Government and the Stortinget based on the last year’s budgetary procedure.’ Then an outline of "unintentional increase" used in purchasing power, and that's the opposite of it. Ein has had an ‘unintentional’ reduction in purchasing power. That's what we want to fix, as we think it makes sense to do, and we're making the proposal that I've shown before, to reduce the total cost of petrol by NOK 2.50 as of 1 July. This option says in May. This is a typo. It would probably be problematic to have this implemented - if we were to get a majority for it - with the refund of taxes to those who have already purchased petrol and diesel in May. In addition to this proposal, we have a proposal II, on which the Chair of the Financial Committee was also involved. There is a proposal for a variable fuel tax. So this is not a variable fuel tax to be adjusted every week, or for every 10 hours. We imagine that one should go in and adjust when there are large impacts in the pump price. First of all, we propose that the Government submit an assessment of the proposal. Now it doesn't seem like the proposal has multiple numbers, but if you think there are so many negative aspects to this, I thought one should at least have it distributed and had it presented to the Stortinget. Our point in this matter is that we want lower fees. We put that into our alternative state budget, but in this case it is a premise that we are going down on what was the premise - approx. NOK 11 per year. liters out to the car list. We thought it sad that we didn't get the bulk of this, especially considering the huge state revenue that is now entering the money stream of Kristin Halvorsen because of the unpredictably high crude oil price. This is something we absolutely can afford! I would like to finish by presenting the two suggestions in the option, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e972	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e975	The right party of the Christian People's Party and the left writes in a comment on this matter that they believe that the Norwegian level of fees is high on an international scale, and that it also applies to Norwegian petrol and diesel taxes. The petrol and diesel taxes have now remained relatively silent for quite many years. I think, after memory, that they haven't changed since 2001, when the Stoltenberg government introduced a minor change. For its part, the right-hand side wants the level of charges to be as low as possible, and not just for petrol and diesel. On the right, however, it is also the case that the opportunities we use to propose reductions at tax level and at tax level are at the annual budgetary procedures and, where appropriate, in the context of the revised budget. I don't have any problems seeing that at the moment are the high oil prices, which in turn give high petrol prices, becoming a major problem for business in many places in Norway, and especially in the districts. Just that point I think is important to take over, perhaps not by urgent measures and urgent decisions in the Storting, but I must say that I think that the occasion in connection with the revised budget, which is to be presented and discussed very soon, could be good for the Government to address this issue. There's something about understanding the situation that business is in. In the previous case Magnar Lund Bergo fully understood the problems of business, and business also has a problem in this case. Now, gas prices are increasing largely because of the increased oil price. It is a blessing to Norway, revenue is increasing, but it also poses a similar problem for business. Historically, the fees we have are not so much set in any environmental context. For our part, the situation is that we have entered into the climate agreement, where it is only a moderate increase in fuel taxes. That is why the situation is not going to be the right one to go in and support this proposal. In the context of the revised budget, we will look at a number of other measures in relation to the problems posed by the increased prices of petrol and diesel fuels. I'm not going to get into this right now, it's in the revised budget. I think the right way to do it is to look at a little bit more general measures that can work positively for business, especially in the districts, but also in the country. Then there has been a lot of talk about, both in the media and today by the representative Hagesetter, the so-called Easter Package in 1986. Now it's been relatively long, and not everyone remembers 1986 as well, but some of us are so far up in the years that we have a sense of what it was like 25 years ago. And we actually had a completely different situation in Norway in 1986 than what we have today. After all, the reason for Willoch’s proposed change in the petrol tax was the whole situation in the economy, among other things. a large budget deficit relative to the rest of the world. It was a long time before we got significant oil revenues, so the overall situation was quite different. To me, it seems like something was trying to compare with the situation that time. We are in agreement with the majority here, who reject the proposal. We have written that in the comments in the settings, and we have no other suggestions that we're dealing with.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e992	This proposal for a representative of the Progress Party calls for the introduction of a system to ensure that the oil price goes down, and vice versa. That, I think, is a bombardment. I understand, after all, that the Progress Party is promoting a proposal that will lead to a reduction in petrol taxes in certain situations. Those who are okay with it seem to think it's also when the party's opening up. However, there may not be such considerations that should be taken into account when discussing charging policies. No, the responsible and sustainable would have been to put forward a proposal that the petrol tax should be increased every time environmental emissions rise, but such a proposal is long enough for us to see from the Progress Party. Because even though the Progress Party is trying to make it appear that it only has a petrol tax in this country to fill the treasury, it actually has it because consumers have to pay for the costs that car use imposes on society. It is a reasonable policy that the polluter should also pay the price for what it costs to clean up afterwards. The party also tries to develop a questionable exercise in the proposal when comparing the prices of petrol in Norway with the EU average and uses the difference as an argument for reduced prices here to countries. Without taking into account the different purchasing power of the inhabitants of different countries, such a comparison becomes meaningless. In fact, Norway has Europe’s second cheapest petrol to adjust for purchasing power. We actually spend a smaller share of our income here in Norway on petrol than we did ten years ago. The increases in petrol prices in Norway have been lower than in both Sweden and Denmark in recent years. But at the same time, I think you should respect the fact that people don't like that petrol is getting more expensive, and that many people with low income depending on the car are getting more expenses. It's quite understandable that people react to increased gas prices if they don't feel like they're getting something on the other side in terms of a better collective offer or other environmentally friendly alternatives. SV's solutions in this field are significantly better than the Progress Party's proposal to use Community money to reduce the petrol tax. Public services in Norway need to be expanded and quality improved. Where there are a lot of people, we should get more trains and buses, and where there are fewer people, we need flexible and efficient solutions. Here the government has already done a lot, and it has increased rail investment in Norway by 50 pst. For those with the lowest income, there are increased social security benefits, better social assistance, lower taxes and heavy redistribution that must be done, not fuel to 2 kr for the litre, as the Progress Party requires. Here, too, the government has backed up the words by having a historically good social security settlement, while at the same time working to improve the situation of low pay and social welfare recipients. The world's oil reserves are declining, and petrol and diesel are therefore becoming a scarcer resource. With massive growth in China and India, there have become more buyers at the same time, and demand is increasing. The oil is likely to continue to be more expensive. Fees or not, also petrol and diesel will rise in price. In other words, the reduction in the fees of the Progress Party can be seen as a huge gift package for some of the world's richest companies, since a greater proportion of the price increase in the years ahead will be due to the oil companies in the form of increased profit from the Advance Party's policies. Norwegian consumers, on the other hand, will have more for a forward-looking policy, where we are betting on renewable energy and public transport. Now that we are facing - not to say in the middle - major climate change, and what can be described as the greatest challenge of our time, the debate should be about how we, as politicians, can make people choose as environmentally friendly as possible, instead of letting the debate revolve around measures that will only make the worst possible in the long term and the necessary transformation for society more painful.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e1009	This Document No The 8th proposal by the Progress Party is not a thoughtful proposal. It is also clear from the position, where they depart from the proposal in the document and promote a different one. In particular, the Progress Party is trying to override market prices in order to obtain fixed oil prices for consumers in Norway. I guess it's quite unique in the world that someone's trying to do this kind of exercise. The consequence, as many have been involved, is that it gives oil companies -- the few we have, and as many call a cartel -- the opportunity to increase profits by taking even higher prices when the world market price increases. Increased charges at falling international prices I doubt whether the Progress Party has political backs to propose when they occur. That is why the whole proposal falls on its own lack of thought. What I think, on the other hand, is important to draw attention to in this proposal is a central point in the majority comment on the pump prices of fuel, and how they vary over geographical distances. The main reason is a lack of competition in the districts, and it allows oil companies to have high selling prices at their regional petrol stations so that areas with several competing petrol stations can be cross-subsidised. In other words, the deficit in the sale of petrol in the city is financed by extremely high prices in Finnmark. This relationship needs to be given strong attention by our competition authorities and from the Government in the future, for this practice of the oil cartel needs to be changed as soon as possible. Finally, there are many who react to greatly increased fuel prices, and I would say: naturally enough. At the same time, people understand that renewable energy is not becoming more expensive and is going to be even more expensive due to scarcity and due to the negative climate impact of CO2 on the combustion of storage energy, which is the cause of the global CO2 concentration increase. But this understanding of the people most of us have to follow up by the fact that the authorities better facilitate choices in terms of people's transport needs. From the expansion of the fibre network of broadband to all households, i.e. supply-driven expansion, to better and relatively cheaper public transport services, forward-looking instruments need to be used much more actively. Increased costs of commuting and commercial transport in rural areas can be compensated by fiscal policies. With this package of measures, where oil taxes are combined with better and stronger environmental and distribution policies, much of the popular basis for the proposals of the Progress Party in the field of fuels will remain low in the future. It's high time we thought differently.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e1028	It is easy to understand that people can be both desperate and irritated if the price of a product goes up. And it's easy to understand that you forget about the goods that the price goes down on. If we are going to take a little summary of what has happened since 2000, the following picture is correct: the real wage increase has been around. 45 pst., the increase in fuel prices has been about 30 pst. So if we spent all of our money on fuel, we would have gone positive. The price of imported clothing and various technical goods has fallen considerably, and we use on average approx. 3.5 pst. of our fuel revenues. I wish people had it in the back of their heads when they were irritating or despairing about the prices of fuel. Because that's in sum what you have left in your wallet, which is what, after all, determines what kind of economy you have. And then it will be that what everyone who is concerned with climate change thinks needs to be, is that we get a price of carbon emissions that brings up the production of new renewable energy, that we get ahead of the production of more fuel-friendly cars, that we get up alternative fuels that make the CO2 emissions and other climate emissions in the world go down. It's the only thing that can prevent global warming, which won't make up any dollars in people's wallet if we can't stop it, but that can lead to dramatic changes for a lot of people. Whether it's floods, droughts, races or hurricanes and wild weather, we know that the cost of it far exceeds this. So to the other, which seems to be the crown argument of the Advance Party in this debate, namely the parallel to the 1986 Easter Package. With the help of Vice President Hagen, I have received a quick refresher of this savings package, as this was. This savings package contained a proposal to increase the petrol tax by 35 cents. And the savings package in sum was over $1 billion. It was from the then government's point of view that was necessary in that situation. So the relevant comparison for the Progress Party is: do we now need an incentive package in the Norwegian economy of SEK 7 billion, which the proposal for the Progress Party means? Is it that things are going so bad now, and we have so many problems in so many areas, that it's high time to make sure to light up a little bit more? That's the opposite. In fact, if you increase the budget appropriations now by NOK 7 billion only on this one proposal from the Progress Party, it may have consequences for interest rates and other aspects of the Norwegian economy that have a much greater impact on the wallet of the people most. So not only does the winning go into the spin, but people go into the negative because of this proposal. I have one challenge for the Progress Party in the context of the revised national budget. I see that there is still reference to calculations made in relation to the alternative state budget of the Progress Party, and to the beneficial effects of this. The problem with those calculations is that the Progress Party has only given the Statistical Central Bureau a tab on what is the Progress Party's alternative economic policy. For as soon as the Storting has adopted the budget, the Progress Party will come with new proposals that increase the expenditure side of the budget by billions of dollars. So only this one proposal increases the expenditure side of the budget by NOK 7 billion. It will affect interest rates. So wise - and I expect that the Progress Party has - in relation to the revised national budget. I expect the Progress Party then to take stock of its own proposals made under the previous budget, so that we can get a whole. And of course, the Ministry of Finance and I are very helpful in calculating what the different suggestions mean, because then the back of the medal comes out. Then comes the expenses that really matter to entrepreneurs, to people in the start-up phase, to people with bad advice - then the interest bill comes on the table. We have major challenges in the future in terms of climate. We can't give people the impression that petrol, diesel, fuel oil and other fossil fuels are going to be cheaper in the future. What we can do is a fair distribution policy and an active district policy through other instruments that can balance this. So fossil emissions or carbon emissions have a price, will help to develop a new technology that can help save the climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e1051	First to the State Council: the SSB has received all relevant information from the Progress Party. The SSB has gone through all the numbers, and has concluded that with our alternative state budget, interest would go down, inflation would go down, and there would be an opportunity for the governor to lower interest rates. He's fixed that two years in a row. There's no reason for the council to shake its head, because that's the fact. This matter is not about that. What this matter is about is the fuel taxes and the harassment that the Government is imposing on consumers in that country. After all, the government wants to increase the fuel tax by 5 øre and 10 øre per. litres, and it is only 100 kr per. average failure according to the Government. They claim that this should be tolerated by the drivers. Why on earth would the drivers take it? After they already have NOK 7.50 per person. Literally, are they going to have to take another 5 cents and another 10 cents? When you take it, you take it. There's no reason for the drivers to think about it, and neither do they. That's also why we see all the protests around. It's just the majority of people in this room who think this is all right. People out there don't think it's all right at all, and that's why they protest. Today, with the taxes we have on petrol and diesel, the average car driver pays NOK 15 000 a year in taxes to the Norwegian state - to the state of search in Norway, the oil country of Norway, which is flooded with money and oil, and which has never been so rich. This is what the Council of State believes is an excellent policy. It is a symbolic policy in the name of the environment. Even State Council Solheim says that 5 cents and 10 cents do nothing to help the environment. It is a symbolism policy that the government is running. Had the government really wanted something, and thought that it could reduce the driving costs, it would have set the fee at $20 per cent. liters. Then you'd have seen effects, but this government doesn't. It's a populist government that doesn't even believe in its own rhetoric. So the government parties say that the drivers have to pay for the cost of driving a car. Yeah, who's counting on this cost? Who is it that has calculated what this cost actually is? Is there anyone on the income side for this? Is there anyone who has calculated what companies pay and are charged through this charge? Is there anyone who has calculated the benefits of driving children in kindergarten, to other activities, or driving and visiting Grandma on Sunday afternoon? Is there anyone who's been thinking about the social benefits? You never count on that. That's all the pressures on the community you're going to be dealing with. I think people are mostly tired of that kind of calculations. Most people see that they need the car, and that they are going to use the car. It also knows the County Council of Halvorsen, which is why she can charge the fees. She knows that people depend on the car, and that's maybe the last thing they give up. In fact, in the oil country of Norway, it should be possible to reduce the fees, so that people can benefit from the benefits of this country, namely the large revenues of all the oil and gas we produce. It makes no sense that we are going to have some of the world's highest oil and gas prices in this country, when we have all the revenue from all the oil and gas we have. The most interesting comment of the government parties was that varying fees hampered the work of the government budget, on which the committee leader, Sandal, was involved. Yeah, think about it! Here we are to sit and adopt policies, but because it makes the work of the state budget difficult, we cannot reduce the fees! How will most people react to the type of comments and the type of comments? So we cannot reduce the fees, because the work of the Ministry of Finance and the government apparatus is becoming so difficult - we are not getting the state budget properly put together! It doesn't make any sense. That's why most people react out there too. They do not want us to be able to adopt a reduction in taxes because the composition of the government budget is becoming difficult. Then we have to do something about our work on the state budget. It is we, who are sitting in this room and the Government, who can do something, so that the work can be done - also with reduced fees and with flexible charges, as we propose. There is no fixing of the price, on which the representative Lundtägen is involved. There are several elements in the gas price. The fees are one element. There are also two other elements and competition must take place. Competition is not about fees today, but about the other two elements. That's why there's real competition on the other two elements, even if you try to imagine that there's something else. The joint comment from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left thrives in contradictions. It says that they may consider reducing the fees. In fact, it says that you want to reduce the fees, but not so much. In the next sentence, they say that due to the climate agreement with the government parties, taxes cannot be reduced. What really is the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left think about the fuel taxes? And to the representative Fleet: Will the Right be involved in reducing fuel taxes in the 2009 budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e1073	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e1076	Both the Secretary of State and the Minister of Finance have been referring to what I quoted from the 'Pash package' from 1986, and indicate that we have a different situation today. That was exactly what was my point. We now have a situation that is 180 degrees opposite. So in 1986 there was an unexpected fall in crude oil prices. Today we have had an unforeseeable increase in the price of crude oil. In 1986 we had a large budget deficit, which was increasing. Today we have a huge surplus on the state budget, which is also increasing, and which, with today's crude oil price, can rise to over $100,000 per year. resident in Norway. I still want to quote from Innst. S. No 140 for 1985-86, page 22: ‘These members would point out that these developments have given those using petrol an unintended increase in their purchasing power compared to the assumptions of the Government and the Stortinget based on last year’s budgetary procedure.’ So today the situation is the opposite. Today, we have had an unforeseeable reduction in purchasing power. So when the Minister of Finance refers to interest rate developments, it's a blindtrack. We only base the oil price and want to reduce the fees so that one gets the pump price that was included in the 2008 state budget. Then the car list will have the same purchasing power when it applies to petrol as a passenger a few months ago. So it won't create any pressure on interest rate developments other than what was planned. The Minister of Finance points out that this proposal will increase the expenditure in the budget by DKK 3 billion. It is not correct. This will not increase the expenditure in the budget. When we reduce the fees, it will reduce the revenue in the budget. There is a significant difference in relation to interest rate developments as well. Elles has shown the representative Dregni that we have such a high purchasing power in Norway that we therefore have to accept high charges and high prices. Then my question is, why should we increase wages, increase purchasing power, if all the other prices follow?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e1092	I think most people outside this hall feel that the reality that someone in here lives in is very distant from what it actually is. There are now a number of people who react when they see how high the pump price has become on petrol and diesel. That it should be marked as populism that the Progress Party takes these people seriously - takes business seriously, takes seriously that we have a long-term country, that people should be able to live and work throughout the country - is just amazing. I note that especially SV in many ways really meets itself at the door - also in this debate, as in many debates where we are discussing this with fees. SV's spokesman here today, the representative Dregni, says that he is against our proposal, and that we should also have a proposal that the fuel charges should rise as climate emissions increase. It does not promote the Advancement Party, says Dregni. No, it doesn't promote SV either. If it is actually SV will have a much higher petrol and diesel price by cancelling the charges, it is absolutely amazing that SV does not take the step fully. But that's of course because this is really up-to-date. So the question is, who are the populists in this case? I think SV has a lot of problems. This can be confirmed by the subsequent polls. What upsets me a little bit about SV is that the Minister of Finance, before she became Minister of Finance, was running an election campaign where the poor in Norway were involved. In the richest country in the world, we have a lot of people who are actually struggling to pay bills, struggling to get the ends to meet. I said earlier in this room that I actually believed in the Minister of Finance, that she had a desire to meet those who have little from before. This government has completely failed in the fight against poverty. When we now discuss fuel taxes, this is an extra stone to the burden for a number of people. We experience it when we get enquiries, we see how most people experience this. A number of people in this country are actually totally dependent on a car. They are totally dependent on the car to get their everyday lives to jump. Once it has become as expensive as it is now, those who have little from before, and who are in a tough situation, will have further problems. Doesn't SV and the Minister of Finance in today's red-green government realize that when you increase the fees, it hits blindly? We who have gross wages can afford to pay the fuel prices we are now paying. Those who have high directors' salaries can afford it, and many others can. But we have quite a thousand people in Norway who depend on a car, who can't afford this. We have a business that is now in the process of being competitive because this government does not want to intervene in terms of fuel prices - which business now has to pay. We have long transport distances for our products out to the European market, and business is going to notice this well. Finally, the majority of people in Norway are going to be affected by this irresponsible tax policy for the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e1103	Unlike most of the others in the room, I took part in the debate on 29 April 1986, and remember very well what it was about: the oil price had fallen. The government budget deficit grew, and oil revenues went down, and then they tried to fix it in many different ways. We disagreed on increasing the fuel tax, but we agree with many of the other things. So now we have, as Hagesets say, 180 degrees opposite situation. In this respect, the Minister of Finance clearly forgets that there is not just talk of the prices and revenue and expenditure of the State budget, the ordinary. She completely forgets that what has happened since December last year, when the state budget was created, is that it is the revenue of the state economy that has grown enormously as a result of the increase in oil prices. If it's populist to reintroduce the petrol and diesel price in the pumps that Kristin Halvorsen put up when she made her budget for 2008, Kristin Halvorsen was really popular in December last year - because then she assumed that the pump price on petrol would be around 11 kroner. Had she thought it would be 13,5 kroner, she would have increased the tax on petrol by 2 kroner in the budget for 2008. What the Progress Party does with its proposal is to be responsible and to restore what Kristin Halvorsen and the government parties considered to be reasonable and reasonable fuel costs in Norway for 2008. We're restoring that situation. Some people sometimes ask, "Why don't other countries do it?" The answer is very simple: other countries do not have the opposite effect of oil price increases and reductions that Norway has, because - largely - we are only in Europe as an oil country. Although oil prices and fuel costs have risen, other countries cannot reduce their taxes, because they do not have the income side of the state economy that oil provides Norway. What has happened is that since December last year we have approx. 80 billion kroner of new unexpected, unexpected revenues from oil taxation, the sale of the SEDØE oil. And the Norwegian people, who might have thought that sometimes they would also have an advantage, what have they got? Well, they've got an increased bill, according to what Kristin Halvorsen suggested, of $7 billion on an annual basis. There has been a withdrawal from the Norwegian people equivalent to NOK 7 billion, and when we allow ourselves to reintroduce what was supposed to be the purchasing power, it's not the populist, it's the only sensible and responsible position. Its aim is, among other things, to Right hasn't learned from what Kåre Willoch's crew said on 29 April in 1986.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e1112	I asked for the floor of the representative Tybring-Gjedde's posts. The fact that the Progress Party is for lower fees is nothing new. On the other hand, it was somewhat obvious that the representative, who is very concerned about competition, held competition on petrol as it works in Norway today. It came as a surprise when we know that the petrol companies are dropping the price the same day of the week and at the same time. This seems to indicate something quite different than a functioning competition. What I think, however, was the most interesting thing about Tybring-Gjedde's posts, is that he does not agree with the proposal for variable fuel charges. It was also not followed up by the representative in the proposal. This suggests that what was today's theme, the varying fees, is a proposal that Mr Tybring-Gjedde cannot support. It has been said that the market is blind. Yes, the market hits blindly, it hits blindly both ways. Both roads are blind in terms of the objectives to be achieved. That's why I said in my first post that it's important to nuance this debate. We need to make sure that we can correct the market so that one can exercise leadership, so that the necessary positive measures can be taken, and that we can manage to reduce the consumption of storage energy while at the same time ensuring distributional and environmental considerations, which will benefit the future. That's the challenge we're facing. Therefore, the observations of the majority are what it is responsible for. We know the cheap rhetoric of the Progress Party about low charges - we have always had it, and it is not least a little topical in today's situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e1121	I'm not going to extend the debate unnecessarily, I'm just trying to be polite and answer the questions I've been given. First to the representative Tybring-Gjedde, who thought our remark was ambiguous. I think it reflects a little bit of what's people's problem in this -- the fees, the cost on the one hand, and the responsibility for the environment on the other. I don't think that's just true in this house. I think that actually applies to a lot of people. I also hit a lot that are not politicians, I actually hit quite a lot, from business and other. I meet quite a number of people who, let me say so, have a somewhat more reflected view of this than the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde. Then I got a direct question as to whether we would reduce fuel taxes in the 2009 budget. To that I would like to say that we always consider reductions in both taxes and taxes, but we do so in a total, total economic assessment, not least responsibility for very many other matters such as interest rates, cost developments, etc. is important. We need to have budgets that are economically tight, so that no other development in society goes in the wrong direction. It really doesn't help to stand up and fill cheap petrol if you've lost your job, it's not easy to serve the loan at the bank, etc. Then finally back to the Hagesets and the Easter Package. I was not talking about the situation of individuals, I was talking about the situation of the country, which I believe was completely different in 1986 from what it is today. We have also been confirmed by the representative Hagen, who not only lived then, he was even present in this room and dealt with the matter - and also voted for it. The difference is that at the time we weren't the richest country in the world, and no one was talking about it either.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e1132	I would like to invite the Storting to take a look. We have some challenges with regard to global warming that far exceeds the current price of petrol and diesel, which is not due to the fees, but is due to the price of the world market. If we can't stop the increase in global warming, the costs for us will be much, much greater in the future. Yesterday, I met one of those premiscuous suppliers for this, Nick Stern, who has just said that if we can invest now to avoid increased climate problems, it is cheaper than taking the cost of not doing anything. In this context, we just have to say straight away: most people have to blame themselves for the fact that the price of oil products, petrol and diesel is going to be higher in the years to come. It's going to work, because it's going to make those who produce cars put themselves in the harness to produce cars that use less fuel. Those who are busy with alternative fuels are going to put themselves in the harness to get up more alternatives and other types of cars. Those who are busy saving money to warm up their houses are going to get other alternatives. We're going to be able to do this by transforming the world into a more climate-friendly place, but it requires that we also use some tools. One of the instruments that everyone who fights against global warming is that we need to get one price of carbon emissions, or climate emissions, because it is the emissions that drive global warming. It is no wonder that the Progress Party is not concerned about this, because the Progress Party does not believe that global warming is man-made. The party of progress is those who dare to see grandchildren and great-grandchildren in their eyes and say, 'We don't care about this!' That the cost to those who come after us can be much greater than what we experience today, they don't care. It is a irresponsible policy for the future. We can't have that. However, we need to pursue distribution policies, and we need to ensure that we distribute fairly in such a way that those most affected have relief in other areas. As far as the Progress Party is concerned, I also have to say that it is the strangest economic theories that are going out here. It seems like they have one control target, and that's the price of petrol and diesel. If that was the case, they had to say, we have an estimate in the government budget for the payroll and the wage increase - it turns out that it was lower than the payroll actually was. Do you have to bring in that money? That's not how it works! That's the total amount we spend in the Norwegian economy, which ultimately determines what people have to deal with, whether it's interest costs or fuel costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e1145	I would actually recommend Kristin Halvorsen to read a good part of the debate on April 29, 1986. Then, among other things, she wants to See that I made one of my greatest political losers in my long history at the beginning of that debate. I'd like to bring up with Kristin Halvorsen this with distribution policy and memory of something Try Hegnar should have said. He wanted Kristin Halvorsen to have an impact on a dramatic increase in the fuel charge to get prices up, so he didn't have to drive so much in line. They would then have to stop driving a car with bad advice. That is the distribution effect of using the price mechanism, when one silently fails to reduce the petrol and diesel tax in order to obtain the price planned for the Norwegian people in December last year. It goes primarily against them with bad advice, while those who have good advice, just get joy, and kiss. So how SV can always speak for even greater increases in petrol and diesel prices, I don't understand. We in the Progress Party have tried to raise the minimum pensioners by many retirement stops. It's actually also the minimum pensioners who drive their old car, who now may have to reduce their quality of life and their standard of living. Similarly, young children's parents, who have sky-high housing costs, at least in the big cities, have to work hard to get the ends to meet, thanks to Kristin Halvorsen, who has helped set up the interest rate. As far as I know, it has now happened 12 times since she joined as Minister of Finance. The divisional effect of the policy that Kristin Halvorsen stands for as Minister of Finance, goes primarily against them with poor advice. Now she had the chance to stand up and say: Norway as a nation has got $80 billion more in cash as a result of increased oil prices. We're very happy about that. Then we will use some of this to improve the conditions for them with poor advice. So instead of preventing Norwegian people and Norwegian businesses from getting more fuel costs, which in turn lead to higher prices, she chooses to be a passive spectator. She thinks it's okay that they get worse with bad advice -- while Trygve Hegnar, Stein Erik Hagen, Kristin Halvorsen and I may not be able to stand in line when we're going to work. It's sad that there's so little follow-up to the distribution policy Kristin Halvorsen has been talking about for very many years from this pulpit. Now she had the opportunity to do something about it, simply using some of the 80 billion to reduce the disadvantages for them with poor advice in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e1158	First to the representative Lundtigen: Of course I support flexible and varying fuel charges. I do not understand where the representative has got it from that I do not. So to the state council that suddenly took on the international global environmental hat. She hasn't worn it before in the debate. When she found out that she had some bad arguments, she put on that hat. If the Council of State actually believes that the Norwegian car drivers and Norwegian car use are a significant contribution to the global warming, as she pointed out, then the Council of State should set the price at NOK 20 per cent. liters and make people stop driving, or alternatively use old-day SV policies and ban car use. Then you save the environment. Then you save the world. It may go a little wrong around, but she's saving the world! That's what she says, which is the big global challenge, which we all have to take seriously. Take it seriously, then! The Council of State has a majority here in the Chamber. She can take it seriously, but she doesn't! Then one cannot argue against the Progress Party and say that we are irresponsible. It is the Council of State who is in power and can take the responsibility she has actually received from the Norwegian people. Then to the representative Fleet and Right comments. I understand that this is a difficult matter for the Right. At least you should be a little more precise in the use of the notes. The right, Christian People's Party and the left write in the first section of the notes that it is unfortunate that car owners and businesses in Norway experience higher costs than in comparable countries. But in the next sentence they say that the environmental impact of increased transport is so negative that the challenge has to be taken very seriously. So what does that mean? In the next section, the same batches say that they are difficult to support a proposal to reduce fuel taxes ‘as far as possible’ contained in the proposal. Then it would be interesting to know how much the lots are actually willing to reduce the fees by. It's obvious that they're willing to reduce them -- it actually says -- just not as much as the Progress Party suggests. In the next sentence, the same batches claim that they cannot reduce fees at all because of the climate agreement with the red-green ones, and that they actually want to increase them. Basically, those charges seem high, so they want to reduce them, so they don't want to reduce them -- and then they want to increase them. There's no relationship here. It's obvious that there are three parties that have tried to sew their notes together, but they rhyme poorly. I would like to know what is the view of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left on fuel taxes now and in the 2009 state budget. Can you give me any clues about that? This has nothing to do with interest, as the Fleet was inside. It's not about that. It's about giving people a little cheaper fuel charges, so you can enjoy the day better than today, instead of paying 15 000 kroner in annual fuel charges to the Norwegian state - which is already a search warrant.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e1169	The debate took a very interesting turn when the Minister of Finance tried to pull the joker out of the map, which is thus the climate agreement and the world's greatest threat, namely the climate threat. So you have to save the world by increasing fuel taxes. I assume that what underlies the rhetoric of the SV representatives is that in case of increased charges, car use goes down, it becomes less emissions, and you save the world. The problem is how the Minister of Finance has actually presented the revised budget we are going to deal with in a few weeks' time, for Stortinget. You add the charges and expect everything you add to the charges to come in as net income to the state - ergo people are going to use the car as much as before. This has no effect. The five and ten ears, respectively, will have no effect on people's car use, but they will hit those who have little from before, because this comes at the top of sky-high oil prices-- and ergo will very many experience a tougher everyday life. If it is that the Minister of Finance thinks something about what she said in her previous statement, that the use of cars is going down sharply, then we have someone who has calculated what the Minister of Finance has to promote by proposing. The Transport Economics Institute has probably been out in the media saying that the price of petrol and diesel must at least be up to NOK 25 per person. liters. If that's what SV wants, I'm surprised that the SV doesn't now just admit it. Or is there something to concede after the next elections, if they were supposed to be re-elected and continued in the state councils they hold today? Is that when they're going to bring this? It is clear that the Minister of Finance is preparing the Norwegian people for something. The Minister of Finance clearly says in Stortinget that people have to expect that the fuel will be more expensive and expensive in the years to come. So it doesn't have to be much more expensive in the years to come if you use the charging policy to reduce charges rather than set them up. I would like the Minister of Finance to admit where this is going to end soon. SV, the Minister of Finance and today's Red-Green Government will therefore not use fiscal policy to reduce fuel prices when oil prices rise. You want to push the climate agreement in front of you. Ergo you want to get prices at a completely different level than what we see today. It would have been very good for the Norwegian people, not least for Norwegian business and for anyone living in the districts who today pays NOK 13-14-15 per person. Liter, that SV and the Minister of Finance now say clearly where this is going to end. I'm glad the Finance Minister has signed up on the list of speakers for another post, not only to answer that -- if she wants to answer that -- but also to comment on the aspect we now had regarding poverty. It is no longer mentioned by the finance minister, and I hope she can now say if she does not see that there are some people who are struggling with the fuel prices we now have.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e1180	I think it was refreshing and stimulating that we had a real political debate, because I have been in many laps in Stortinget lately without any particular temperature in the hall. This discussion goes on in many places, and it's great that it's taken here. But I have to say that I don't stop wondering how the Progress Party gambles with the future in the environmental field, and how to underestimate people who are busy with two things - like SV is - namely both fair distribution and taking responsibility for the future. Minimum pensioners also have children and grandchildren and grandchildren. After all, they are also concerned about achieving a more sound environmental policy in the future, so that they avoid the costs of the large temperature rises to which it is due if we do nothing. That's why we have to have two thoughts in our head at the same time. One is to pursue a responsible environmental policy for the future, and the other is to pursue a fair distribution policy. Here the Progress Party sails under such a false flag that there is almost no way to believe. It's not that SV is to some extent sponsored by Stein Erik Hagen or some of the other powerful forces in society. It's probably the Progress Party that gets a lot of gifts from them - and it's probably because the Advance Party, for example. will eliminate the wealth tax, which will give the hundred richest people seven million. kr in tax bills every year - each of them. Now we have had a very good, joint and several social security settlement that has increased the number of single minimum pensioners and minimum pensioners living with minimum pensioners by NOK 16 000. I'm very happy about that. That's good distribution policy. We also pursue fair distribution policies in many other areas, whether in the field of income taxes or subsidies, and we have a distribution policy that is not least about having good welfare arrangements that everyone can benefit from. It is quite simply that if the Progress Party believes that the most responsible policy for the future is to have one thought in your head, and that is the lowest price possible for petrol and diesel, then we will not get anywhere. There must be at least two ideas in your head: one is a fair distribution policy, and the other is a sound environmental policy for the future. Then we know that we have to change, many of us. We have to go. At the same time, we need to ensure that we are able to operate a fair distribution policy. Now I also think that some of the people who stand and are a little irritated in front of the petrol pumps are not irritated by a 10 ear or a 5 ear in the increase in the fees. There's $2 on the Oslo-Trondheim route. [[President clubs]] But I think the same people are also concerned about the environmental situation of the future, and about how we're going to take responsibility for it. Then it must be the great concern of the major challenges that are winning, and then we have to take the distribution debate, how we are going to be able to pass on the burden fairly in the future. [[The President Clubs Again]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e1196	The representative Gjermund Hageseter has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e1199	I would first like to make a few comments on what the Minister of Finance said. Ho thinks the Progress Party only has one thought in its head. I would rather say that it seems to us very often that the Minister of Finance only has one thought in his head, that is, how one should increase the fees as much as possible, and how one should skin the Norwegian people. On the other hand, we want to go the other way, as we have shown with this proposal, and reduce the fees. The representative Fleet here showed that it was different in 1986. We weren't the world's richest country then. That, of course, is quite right. Now we are, and it's interesting that Right uses the rhetoric that they used when the Treasury lacked money and it was about increasing fees. But when the treasury is running out of money and it's about reducing the levy, this argument and the logic don't apply in the same way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e1208	I would venture to some point of view in this debate, although I was not present and took part here in the debate on the fuel tax in Stortinget on 29 April 1986, from which another person has stressed strongly that he had experience. I note that the representative Mr Tybring-Gjedde tried to ridicule the view that everyone in the Committee on Finance - apart from the Progress Party - has pointed out that budgetary priorities need to be reviewed in a normal way in the annual government budgets, and that it also has relevance to this matter. I also notice that Thybring-Gjedde presented this point of view with an unusually high voice, and it says not so little. I want to remind you that everyone, both the current and the previous government party, is behind this remark and this reason, and I think there's no reason to try to ridicule her. So I have noticed that the Progress Party in several debates in the later period has claimed that a family that runs 20,000 km with its car a year gets a cost increase of at least NOK 6000. That formulation has been used up to several times. If we assume that this car uses 0.7 liters per. mile, this corresponds to an increase in the price of petrol and car diesel of 4 kroner - 4 kroner! I would like to remind you that because the cost of a family depends on the price throughout the year, not only the price of the days that have record high notes, this calculation is very uneven. More relevant are e.g. to look at the average price for the first four months of 2008 compared to the average price for the same period of the previous year. And if we take that as a basis, the numbers show that the price increases by $1.80, i.e. less than half of the scary image that the Progress Party's representatives have produced in the media after the last few days. I thought it was right to point this out. I also like heavy political debate, but we stand stronger if we have a somewhat factual foundation for some of the claims that are being made.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e1221	I record that the Minister of Finance comes with very strong words about the climate policy of the Progress Party, but obviously has not intervened in it, in addition to cultivating prejudices. If the Minister of Finance had read the comprehensive proposal of the Progress Party on how the Progress Party will comply with the Kyoto Agreement, she would understand the logic that it is actually possible to question the causes, the consequences and the scale and at the same time have a precautionary approach to this. There must be evidence that there are many researchers around the world who are critical of the politically correct position of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. In the United States, there's an opportunity to sign up for a rapport, which is limited to having a natural science background -- experience, work or education. 31,000 people have written on this one. So you don't have to focus on this, but when an economist makes a statement, it's something you have to pay attention to. A month ago, the Progress Party had a climate seminar at Stortinget. We invited twelve scientists with different views. The seminar showed very clearly that there is disagreement about consequences and scope, but that everyone takes the issue seriously. Unfortunately, the Minister of Finance is unable to take into account that people who disagree with her can actually have professional reasons and an equal heart for environmental issues. I record that when the Minister of Justice Storberget in a chronicle in the VG a few weeks ago began to link climate change up to the earthquake in China as a cause explanation, there are no environmental friends who go out and say that here a argument goes a little too far. Nor does the Minister of Finance say that this is an innocuous way to debate. It's only when people question whether the government's own policy is right, that one is called a climate bubble with little knowledge. Let me point out that last year's Progress Party promoted a comprehensive proposal for the reduction of CO2 emissions. The proposal had 34 concrete measures and fundamental clarifications. We support Mongstad, and we support the commitment to renewable energy. We have a number of points about transport policy on better interaction between road and rail, better interaction between private car and public transport. But we dare to question whether some of the proposals that are also being promoted in this debate have any utility, as it has been enormously run by a person to introduce marketing requirements for biofuels as quickly as possible, where, fortunately, the government now seems to turn around, after massive protest. But what we also criticise is that the increase in petrol taxes proposed by the Government has no environmental impact. Then it is completely wrong when the Minister of Finance in the media calls this an important climate action. Even the Minister for the Environment has depreciated this because it has no effect. It is strange that when the environment was okay with a petrol price of 11 kroner last autumn when the budget was added, it is therefore environmentally irresponsible when the Progress Party proposes to maintain the price. The Minister of Finance has a little to defend as to why this has changed over six months.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e1242	I understand that the undersigned has probably underestimated the historical date 29/4-1986. I understand that it's almost in line with certain other dates that we've probably learned a little bit more about than those who signed it on April 29, 1986. But that it still has an effect in 2008, I understand from the debate. Of course, we are from the Christian People's Party behind the setting. I think it's almost going to be a bit of an absurd debate if this marginal increase is to be the biggest challenge of our time, which some people are now making to overthrow a private economy. I don't think so. At the same time, I must say that it is clear that the Progress Party has been released. They have been released from good opinion polls, but they have also been released by individuals in the government parties, who are so deeply concerned about certain tax increases that they are then extended to the degrees they have done. Clearly, it gives blood on the tooth both for the Advancement Party and others. Some in the government parties also have to take responsibility for this. Christian Tybring-Gjedde was concerned with our remark. What's relevant, and we're told by our side, is that we're following up a settlement we've made with the government parties. Actually, we're up to it. I'm also concerned about distribution. But many in this country cannot even afford a car. Maybe we should spend time and energy on how to improve their standard of living. And the representative of Tybring-Gjedde can be sure that the increase we get through these fees, among other things, we have to. use to make sure that those who really need it the most get more. I agree with the Progress Party that there are bad tracks in revised by any bet for those who need it the most in our society. From this I hope Tybring-Gjedde has understood where we stand. I don't think he'll get here, except that we're up to the agreements we've concluded. What is unfortunately a fact is that the Progress Party does not conclude agreements that have a side to it that sometimes require unpopular positions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e1257	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3591]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e1265	Before Stortinget goes to voting, state councillor Kristin Halvorsen will transfer 5 kgl. propositions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e1273	The size then goes to voting in case No. 1-4.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e1297	During the debate, Mr Gjermund Hagesetter put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e1333	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Svein Fleet on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 2, from Jørund Rytman on behalf of the Progress Party
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e1365	There will then be a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to the State budget for 2009 with an adjusted amount limit for duty-free imports of approximately SEK 400.’ The President assumes that the Progress Party now wants to support the proposal subsidiaryly. - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e1386	During the debate, Mr Gjermund Hagesetter put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06.ana.ud1841e1526	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
