ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e36	The representative Per-Kristian Foss will present a draft constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e39	I would like to make a constitutional proposal on behalf of Inge Wohnning, Marianne Aasen Agdestein and Svein Roald Hansen and myself on amendments to the Basic Law § 93 in order to allow consent to the transfer of sovereignty to be given by a 2/3 majority if an advisory referendum was first held.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e44	The representative of Mr Øystein Djupedal will present two draft constitutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e47	I am pleased to present two constitutional proposals, the first on behalf of the representatives of Rolf Reikvam, Ågot Valle and myself, on amendments to the Basic Law § 1, 3, 12-14, 16-22, 25-31, 62, 67-69, 74-81, 86 and 112, on the repeal of the Basic Law §§4-9, 11, 23, 24, 32, 34-37, 39-41, 43-48, on new § 113 and on the amendment of the Basic Law heading. This is about the introduction of republican state form. Then I will present a draft constitution on behalf of the representatives of Hallgeir H. Langeland, Ågot Valle and myself on amendments to the Basic Law Sections 2, 4, 12 and 16 with a view to abolishing the Basic Law provisions on the state church system and establishing the constitutional state and human rights obligations of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e54	No Marte Thorkildsen will put forward two basic legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e57	I am pleased to present two constitutional proposals, the first on behalf of the representatives of Hallgeir H. Langeland, Karin Andersen and myself on the new section 110 d, alternatively, new section 110 e of the Constitution - on the right to housing. The second proposal is on behalf of the representatives of Heikki Holmås, Åsa Elvik, Odd Einar Dørum and myself on amendments to the Constitution § 12, 50 and 61, on the introduction of 16 years of voting rights in the event of a major election.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e64	The representative, Hallgeir H. Langeland, will present a draft constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e67	On behalf of the representatives of Karin Andersen, May Hansen, Lars Peder Breck, André N. Skkelstad and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to introduce a separate constitutional law on protection against discrimination on grounds of sex and discrimination against minorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e73	Constitutional proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The representative, Mr Gjermund Hagesetter, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e78	On behalf of the representatives of Ulf Leirstein, Jørund Rytman, Christian Tybring-Gjedde about myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to ban the publication of tax lists.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e83	The representative of Kåre Fostervold will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e86	On behalf of the representatives of Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Tord Lien, Bård Hoksrud, Øyvind Korsberg and myself, I have delighted to promote a proposal for a representative to have a government responsibility to remove and deposit the radioactive material from the areas of Sove Mining in Nome Municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e91	The representative of Trine Skei Grande will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e94	I have, on behalf of the representatives of André N. Skjelstad, Vera Lysklattit and myself, the pleasure of promoting a proposal for a representative on start-up loans and housing policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e99	The representative, Elisabeth Aspaker, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e102	On behalf of the representatives Odd Einar Dørum, Laila Davøy, Karin S. Woldseth and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative in which we ask the Government to take the necessary steps to ensure that the State does not claim limitation in proceedings of former children's homes etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e107	The representative proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 16 until today's map has been processed. - No objection has been raised against the President's proposal, and it is deemed to have been adopted. At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 and 2 are treated as a whole. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e138	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes, and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 45 minutes, the Advance Party 25 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes, the Central Party 10 minutes and the Left 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there should be a change of line of up to five lines, with replies from the main speakers of the parties, the parliamentary leaders, the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister, and up to three lines, with replies from other members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e145	The government has submitted some proposals for necessary changes to the government budget for 2008. The various proposals do not reflect the basic commitment that we should have a framework that ensures a stable development in the Norwegian economy. The majority of the Financial Committee endorses the Government's proposal at all points. The issues we are discussing now relate to the revision of the current year's budget. No fraction in the financial committee re-committee on all aspects of the 2008 government budget. I find, however, that the level of rematch is quite high. The opposition party launches a total of 113 proposals. None of them are part of the recommendations of the Financial Committee. The largest change in the budget is one for the health sector. The frame is expanded by just 3.5 billion kroner, which is mainly used to cover pension costs. The number of asylum seekers coming to Norway has increased sharply in 2008. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion’s budget by 633 million. kr. Other important changes concern the assistance framework to launch climate and forest projects of 225 million. kr. A total of 305 million people are receiving social assistance. kr. One third of these funds have been allocated to the financial committee's review of the budget. These funds shall be used to ensure a high level of collective provision in the State. Universities and universities are allowed to increase their budgets by a total of 143 million. kr. It's necessary and joyous. We have experienced a very strong economic development in this country in recent years. In practice, we talk about the strongest growth in the economy since the 1960s. The activity has increased by twice as much as normal. The unemployment rate has not been as low as at present in 20 years. Demand for our exports has increased sharply. It applies specifically to oil and other commodities. At the same time, we have witnessed cheap imports from countries that have become better integrated into world trade. Cheap imports have contributed to a low price increase. I do not say that the sitting government should have the honor of all the positive things that have happened. Economic trends in the world economy, prices that are set on international markets, and other external conditions are certainly playing a major role. However, it is beyond doubt that it is not without interest what kind of economic policy we are pursuing in Norway. Paradoxically, economic policy challenges are not reduced in good times. It's the opposite. Expectations tend to increase faster than is possible. I am very much aware of the developments we have had in the labour market in recent years. The registered unemployment rate is now 1.5 pst. Fortunately, we have experienced a dramatic fall. More than 200,000 more people have come into gainful employment since the fall of 2005. Not less than 50000 people leave the unemployment line during the same period. At the same time as many of the former unemployed have taken up work, many have joined the labour market. Labour supply has increased particularly in the younger and older age groups. Especially positive is the fact that people on social security and on retirement have got work. Both for individuals and families, it is crucial to have a job to go to. Of course, it has a lot to say for their economy. It's also completely fundamental to self-esteem. One of the most important challenges for us politicians is to make our active contribution to keeping unemployment low in this country. The Government Party is strongly committed to measures that can help us to maintain a high labour force. One of the main bets has been the construction of kindergartens. As a result, many thousands more children now have space in kindergartens than was the situation when we took over the government power barely three years ago. From 2005 to the end of 2007, the increase was 26 000 children. There's a lot to say for young children's parents -- they get the opportunity to go back to work, while making sure their children have it safe and sound in their kindergarten. When there is a high demand for labour, it may be easier than otherwise to give people with weak employment a better foothold. There has been an important reason why we have increased efforts in labour market measures and kept it at a high level despite the strong fall in the number of unemployed. This is a very important political mark. If you get the right side, the government party gets criticized because we're doing too little in the labour market. A number of important measures have been taken: Simplifications have been created in the labour immigration legislation. Workers from the new EEA countries can now start working immediately after the application for unemployment has been submitted. The disease reporting and follow-up rules have been changed. The waiting period after cessation of recovery is reduced to stimulate faster transition to work. The minimum subtraction has been increased. It stimulates particularly low income groups to increase labour input. Time-limited wage increases, qualification programmes and redundancy payments have been introduced to mobilise labour on the edge of the labour market. The curtailment of an old-age pension against labour income is liquid for 67-year-olds. The negotiated AFP solution has good work incentives. The liabilities from the right-hand side of the missing effort are low. The right's proposal, on the other hand, to increase the nursery price, which would result in a saving of 544 million. kr, will not inspire parents to search for work outside the home. On the right, however, there will be a 3 000 reduction in the number of ordinary action places. There is no doubt that this will affect those who labor the most to get a job. Such a policy is unsocial. Right, it's a good idea not to throw a stone when they're in a glass house. If we are to develop solidarity, we must have a responsible fiscal policy. It plays a role in the governance rate set by Norway Bank, which in turn has a lot to say for the economy both to individuals and businesses. Higher interest rates will increase the borrowing costs for businesses and may result in the krona being strengthened further. It may have negative effects on the profitability of export holdings. It is therefore very important to maintain the use of petroleum revenues in this budget. The progress game is in an entirely different world than the rest of the games on this question. We have far too much experience of this. On the other hand, there is a very similar perception between the current and previous government parties in view of the use of the revenues generated by the oil and gas industries. Rightly, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party are critical of the government's arrangement and argue unless oil money is spent. But in their alternative budget, the difference is small. The right-hand side uses $1 billion less than the budget that is going to be approved today. The left operates with a number of 560 million. kr. The Christian People's Party claims that they spend 115 million. less of the oil and gas revenues than the majority of the financial committee. A number of proposals from the opposition party have a very small budgetary impact in 2008. On the other hand, they will have major budgetary implications for 2009 and later years. Some of the containment proposals from the opposition party are one-time transactions. I'm thinking, for example: on a proposal from the Right and the Left concerning the sale of property. Such revenues will not be able to finance the continuation of the proposed priorities. In general, the site will lead to the disappearance of future rental income and thus to a weakening of the budget. Therefore, in view of the use of oil and gas revenues, the difference is small between the current and the previous government parties. In turn, it must mean that the difference has very little to say about what kind of interest rate we will get here in the country. The revised national budget is characterised by several crass characteristics. The largest words are used by the leader for the smallest size group. Sponheim was not gracious in the review at the time the document was submitted. He follows in the setting and writes the following: ‘The draft revised budget is almost entirely out of political priorities.’ Political editor Arne Strand commented on the vocabulary of the Left Leader in the Newspaper of 16 May: ‘Lars Sponheim believes that the revised national budget is so boringly free from politics that it is almost to fall asleep. [[VT]] Lars Sponheim must have slept well during the budgetary conferences during the years he was the Council of State." That's the way it can be said.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e214	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e217	I have to add to the story that I think the representative Sponheim was on his way across the mountain by train and was in the sleeping compartment and was awakened early, so that he was very tired when the revision was presented. But I partly agree with the representative Sponheim, just so it's said. I record that the representative Reidar Sandal boasts very unhindered about what the government has created, not least this revised budget. The Chairman of the Financial Committee has largely joined the package and is pleased with it. I don't think a lot of people in this country feel that the world is as rosy as Sandal's representative wants it to be. Among other things, we know that the waiting lists in Norwegian hospitals are increasing. We know that many more people experience coming under the concept of poverty and have major challenges. Many people find it problematic to face increased interest costs and the increased charges that this government has made. Does not the representative Sandal see any areas where it would actually have been reasonable to make an extra effort to meet some of the challenges that actually remain in society? For some challenges, must the representative Sandal see what remains?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e226	Yes, I have a progressive and radical social vision, so I'm always busy making society better, perhaps in contrast to the representative of Leirstein and some of the other representatives of his party. We're going to make improvements. And we're not in the goal. But I think it would be a sin of failure not to point out the extremely good times we have in our country, and that we can rejoice that we live in many ways at the top of a sunny realm. We have proposed extra efforts in the budget, we have dealt specifically with the health and care sector. We've actually invested more than $3.5 billion extra on that in the revised budget. It is quite consistent to have such an arrangement in a revised budget. We have moved on with a stronger effort in the area of aid and the environment, and we have invested more money in the area of public transport - to identify some important areas of our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e233	The worn-out campaign rhetoric from the Workers' Party that the choice is between tax relief and welfare has got its final shot at the bow. In a report presented by the Statistical Central Bureau, we see that the Right and the other bourgeois parties are right and the Workers' Party is wrong in how the dynamic tax policy works. This SSB report makes it clear that tax reliefs contribute to increased labour supply, growth and development, which means that the State is getting tax money back. I am therefore pleased that the Workers' Party's fiscal spokeswoman, Marianne Aasen Agdestein, says that she ‘will not deny that there are dynamic effects of lower taxes’. Does the representative Sandal share Aasen Agdestein's view that there may be dynamic effects of tax relief?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e247	The Labour Party and the other government parties are concerned that we should provide the public and the state with more revenue to build up the welfare arrangements in our society. In relative terms, we do that by taxing less those with the lowest income, and in relative terms taxing harder those with the most help in society. It is, and it will be, our most important course. That is why we have in the growing period we are now in, increasing the tax burden overall, in the pact with the commitment we made to elections in 2005. I want to tell the representative Sanner that there is no main strategy for us to work for tax relief. We are concerned that we should maintain good welfare, we must have significant incomes. But it's important that the tax burden is the hardest for those who have the most help in society. It's, and it's, our line forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e254	One year ago, the Christian People's Party promoted a proposal to reduce the day-to-day pay obligation in the case of leave from 34 to 32 weeks in the treatment of the revised national budget. Then the representative of the Labour Party, Alf E. Jakobsen, said to the undersigned: ‘ It surprises me – and it surprises me greatly – that the Christian People’s Party has a proposal to reduce the day-to-day pay obligation by permitting from 34 to 32 weeks. [[...]] Is this not an unsocial measure, which affects those who have involuntarily come into a very difficult situation, and who in my opinion should be in the group that the Christian People's Party has a desire to be part of?" In the state budget, the government itself proposes a tightening, not 32 weeks, but 30 weeks, and I have not seen anything done with what is termed an unsocial proposal, in the revised budget. So my question is, what has happened to this social proposal, from the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e264	I have not at any time characterized the Christian People's Party's arrangement in this field as an unsocial grip. It is true that changes have been made to this field for 2008. This is probably mainly due to the exceptional situation in the labour market, with extremely low unemployment, now down to 1.5 pst., considered as registered unemployment. But let me say that I'm actually very busy -- that's the main signal I'm going to give -- that the order of business we're not going to deal with, we're not going to touch it out of the way. It is important to maintain a network, an opportunity for security for those who are tired of entering the labour market. That's why it's my heart near not going into any weakening in this field. I believe that the representative Syversen and I can stand shoulder to shoulder about the time that will come.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e271	I am now of the opinion, I, that the country is served by a government of state that is able to sleep at night and be awake by day. Unfortunately, there does not seem to be a situation for any of today's state councils. My question to the Chair of the Financial Committee is what has become the most obvious profile of this revised national budget, namely an increase in petrol and diesel taxes of 5 and 10 øre respectively. It is consistent with what one agreed in the climate agreement would do on the 2009 State budget, in a whole where one showed that money was used for proper climate action, such as new technology and collective action. The government decided to release this, and of course it has received a lot of attention. The order of the factors does not matter in politics. I have read in the newspapers that Sandal's representative was very critical and advised others to the Government, and he has used his role and power in the Finance Committee to decorate this with 100 million. kr for collective betting - that's good. Is there any other thing the chairman of the financial committee would have liked to have come as part of the climate agreement, along with the increase in fees?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e281	Lars Sponheim often says sensible things, and I can join in the general view that he had initially, that even politicians should sleep at night and be awake a day. That principle I'm trying to work on, too. But I disagree with the representative Sponheim that the most obvious profile in the revised budget is to increase fuel taxes. It is only a very small part of the draft budget, apart from a proposal to which the representative Sponheim and the rest of the former government parties have joined. I would like to remind you that the most important profiles of this draft budget are to give more money to health and care - in the billion-dollar class - to provide more money for climate and assistance, as I call it, with 225 million. kr, and, not least, to bet on strengthening collective provision throughout the country. These are the most important profiles. I mean, we can't lose sight of that, even though the political and media noise is the biggest around the fuel prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e290	What struck me when I heard the message from the representative Sandal, was that there was a lot of self-confidence here at once. One could almost begin to suspect that it was comedian Ali who had taken over as a new information strategy for the Government. It can't possibly be as pink as the representative Sandal is trying to express. There are two notes where the government party distances itself from the Workers' Party and SV. There are comments about Trillemarka. My question to the leader of the finance committee is whether he thinks it is entirely right for a government party to distance itself from the government, or whether this indicates government wear, or whether this may have caused the government to pursue such a bad policy that one government party is forced to distance itself from the rest of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e297	The President notes that Comedian Ali is in the newspaper columns, but he is not represented in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e300	I hear what the representative Hagesetter says about self-criticism. No matter how a characterizes it, I am in favour of the assessments and the points of view that I expressed. If I were to change the script, it would have to put more emphasis on the positive aspects of the social development that we now have, especially in the economy, and especially in the labour market. Then it is directly incorrect what the representative Hageset says, that the central government party distances itself from the Labour Party and SV. It is therefore the case that the representative of the Central Party in the Financial Committee has, under two points, entered into a comment on the so-called Trillemarka Saka in Buskerud, where there is a deal between the relevant Central Party representative and the opposition in the Committee. But the central party as a party does not support that assessment. The views have been tested with the leader of the Center Party's big group. The central party - with the exception of the person named - the Labour Party and SV stand by the agreements and understanding we have when it comes to Trillemarka-saka.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e309	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e312	Some of us who have recorded that much is happening in Norwegian politics today may have been afraid that there would be a sleepy debate about revision in many ways. Anyone who has heard the first posts and the line rounds can start fooling when we've had so much focus on sleeping. But we hope it will not be the example of how the debate will proceed, because this is an important debate. The entire treatment of the revised state budget today should have brought considerable attention, because we are in the situation that we are in one of the richest countries in the world. The surplus in the state economy is estimated at around DKK 424 billion in 2008, and the oil fund will be estimated to consist of approximately EUR 424 billion. NOK 2 430 billion at the end of the year. At the same time, we experience that we have major challenges in some areas - which can be remedied if it is willful. At that time, the revision of the State budget is a real opportunity for government and growth to make an extra effort in areas where development has been seen to be in the wrong direction, based on the premises adopted last autumn in the national budget. But is the government coming with new grips? No, unfortunately, the red-green government has submitted a revised budget which is almost chemically free from politics. However, expenditure that would have come to the state budget more or less in any case, is covered, under the pretext that this is a bet. At the same time, it is ignored that there are areas of society that lack resources. The government clearly indicates that only one year before the next major elections, the majority of people have resigned. The paradox is that the government is most concerned with keeping to a considerable degree under the use of money for which the policy of action on the use of oil billions is open. This has become the main focus of the Government without delineating what economic instruments can actually be used. I strongly doubt that many of the voters who supported the government parties three years ago had this as top priority. The voters probably expected a better return of their vote than what they're about to get. But let me not turn the debate on revised into a one-sided debate on the use of oil money. For the Progress Party, it is important to regard revision as just that. There is only a revision of the budget adopted by the majority in this Chamber last autumn. We take note of the fact that our proposals in connection with the state budget treatment last autumn were voted down. So we're not going to rematch the area by area. We should have such respect for the fact that the decisions taken in the context of the State budget have a duration of at least one year until we have a new round now for the autumn. But as we see it, things can happen along the way, from the adoption of the State budget to the promotion of revision, which requires revision. Therefore, in the examination of the revised budget, the Progress Party has consistently referred to proposals which can be justified on the basis of an urgent need or on the basis of circumstances which have changed since the adoption of the State budget last autumn. With regard to the so-called use of oil money in our alternative to the revised one, we are beyond NOK 10 billion more than what the Government is now proposing. But our efforts are directed towards areas where this is fully feasible in today's economic situation. There are no coincidences that underlie our priorities. The Progress Party has three main fields of action in its alternative to the government’s revised budget. Beacon area 1, transport: In the current situation, it would be wise to use a little more funds for investment in areas where capacity is available, for example: in the construction industry. By providing more funds for this purpose, the available capacity available in the market would be used without creating pressure in the economy. At the same time, the Progress Party would like to see larger, more comprehensive offers made, so that larger European companies can also benefit, thus helping to increase the supply of labour. In addition, sensible investment in the road sector would improve the efficiency of business and the population and reduce the level of damage. This will be positive for the economy. The government's own proposals in this area in the revised budget are of no use. Transport priorities are almost absent, and in a situation where, among other things: high oil prices make the projects that have been said to be implemented more expensive. So you get less miles of road than you assumed in the state budget. Let me remind you of the considerable available capacity documented in the civil engineering sector nationally and abroad, and the opportunities available for placing asphalt work, other maintenance and new installations on international tenders, with minimal domestic demand effects. It must be possible to set higher targets for the Government’s concept of historical, as previously mentioned by the government’s spokespersons on the road network as compared to the fact that the road surface at best falls slower than before. The Party considers that maintenance must be stepped up immediately. We propose to allocate significant amounts to improve asphalt and cover improvements during the year and to other measures within the area. Action area 2, health and care: Many people waiting for treatment in Norwegian hospitals deserve action now. With fewer and fewer unemployed people and the fact that access to labour is needed in many sectors, it would be very sensible for the Government to promote proposals to invest in increased and faster patient treatment. This would allow workers waiting for an operation to have them carried out quickly either by public or private institutions, possibly abroad. As a result, savings had been made on public social welfare schemes, while the labour force had been brought back to work more quickly. This would reduce the pressure on the economy. The Progress Party is committed to ensuring adequate resources for regional health businesses, so that patient provision is strengthened, rather than the deterioration we see today. We are disappointed that the Government shows lack of action in this area. We are listening to the signals that are now coming about constantly cutting, cutting, increasing waiting times and longer waiting lists. The year’s wage settlement in the sector will further weaken the economic situation of enterprises, and the victims are patients. Even the head of the Federation has realized that the health care situation alone can overthrow the entire government of the day. So if today's government doesn't listen to patients, stakeholder organisations, employees or the Progress Party in terms of increased patient treatment efforts, you should at least listen to your biggest financial contributor. The Progress Party also believes that there is an urgent need to improve the quality and extent of care services in the country. The Progress Party will therefore propose that in the second half of the year, care for the elderly be strengthened by DKK 1.6 billion. In order to ensure that these funds go to improved care for the elderly in the current hopeless system of municipal funding and management of the care of the elderly, we have proposed that the funds be earmarked for increased staffing in the care sector. This should be done by attaching, in particular, to better medical coverage in hospitals, since this is too low in most places. Action area 3, fight against crime: Today, we have a justice sector characterised by too little visibility of police, too low an investigative and clarification share, too long a response time, too many unoccupied police positions, and a lack of budgets for investment within the police. The result of this is that we get a public space of increasing insecurity, as a result of organised recriminalism, blind violence, rapes and open light, illegal activity such as alcohol abuse. drug turnover. People experience an increasing insecurity in everyday life when the police do not stretch, to which the police should actually have the opportunity to do. The Oslo police have a particularly demanding crime scene to deal with. As the situation is now, we see a trend that goes in the opposite direction of building a safer society and a more visible and present police force. The government's strengthening of police operational budgets is insufficient to meet the real needs of the police. This applies both to fill job vacancies across the country and to maintain close police and police posts in e.g. different urban areas of Oslo. The Progress Party will therefore further strengthen the police in order to remedy the acute situation. Let me say a few words about taxes and taxes. On the tax side, the Progress Party has put forward proposals for significant cuts in the fuel and diesel taxes. Norwegian motorists and Norwegian industry are experiencing a dramatic increase in pump prices, which seriously affects the private economy and the business environment. So in this precarious situation, the government, unfortunately with the support of the Right Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party, chooses to increase fuel taxes. Talk about a gift package for the people! Even internally in the ranks of the government parties, many are clearly frustrated by the government's lack of willingness to see what today's high fuel prices will mean for Norway. For the Progress Party, it is important to clarify that when Norway experiences extremely high extra revenues due to high oil prices, it is appropriate to take the opportunity to reduce fuel taxes, so that most of them can be returned, as the country’s wealth is increasing significantly. But I note that the Government does not listen, nor to its own voters in this matter. Once again, in a debate on the revised budget, we find that the government parties do not, in reality, make changes to the vote in relation to the proposal promoted by the Government. Good input from organisations and businesses through the hearings of the Financial Committee shall not be heard. We record that the type of recording is largely ignored, and the government parties in the finance committee - and most likely in this room today - will automatically ring the bells on the proposals that came from the government. For the Progress Party, it is at least important to make serious recordings. We have done just that with our draft revised budget. I will deal with the proposals that the Progress Party is promoting in the vote, either alone or in conjunction with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e363	The representative Ulf Leirstein has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e368	A few days ago, Jan Tore Sanner here in Stortinget said that Right will never conduct an irresponsible economic policy. Right now claims that the lot will spend less on oil than the government. The Progress Party will spend many, many billion dollars more than the Government in the context of the revision of the budget. The president of the party of progress - as it is called - has said this week that she would like to reign with the Right. This must mean that the Progress Party must accept Right's economic policy. In turn, it must mean that the Progress Party must cut at least DKK 40 billion in matters proposed in the State budget, in the revised national budget and in numerous representative proposals. My question to Mr Leirstein's representative must therefore be: What kind of proposal is it that the Progress Party should cut to be accepted by the Right as a government party?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e377	I'm proud to belong to a party that takes seriously the challenges we face in society. That's why the Progress Party is a party that, in most cases, in this Chamber, promotes very concrete proposals on what we should do to bring about improvements in society that I regret to record that the government parties are doing little with. When reference is made to cooperation between the Advance Party and the Right, our starting point is that we are going to vote on the Party Programme of the Advance Party, which will be adopted at our national meeting in May next year. And then the voters get to say what kind of parties the voters want to join. And then, after getting the election results, you'll see if you're going to go into government discussions, and then see what the result is - just like the party that Sandal represents, did with today's coalition partners. After the election, negotiations were conducted with the relationship of strength, and a result and a declaration were made. The Progress Party also pursues an absolutely economical and responsible policy. So we have no problem talking to parties that want to talk to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e386	The Progress Party is a party that calls itself market liberal, but they want political governance of fuel prices in Norway. In the revised national budget, the Progress Party proposes to reduce the petrol and diesel tax by approximately NOK 2.50, which, according to Leirstein, will bring prices down to a reasonable fuel level. That means going from a pump price today of about 14 kroner to about 11.50 kroner. On 9 November 2005, the representative Ulf Leirstein presented another proposal in this Chamber. Then Ulf Leirstein thought that a suitable fuel price level was 8 kroner. What is it that during the two and a half years that have passed, the Progress Party believes that a fuel, petrol and diesel price increase of approximately SEK 3.50 is reasonable?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e393	If the representative Holmås had heard what I actually said in my post, he would have heard that I said that this is a revision of the budget. That means that the proposals the Progress Party is now promoting are based on precisely that, and are not rematching in all areas. This means, among other things: what we are doing with regard to fuel taxes is to assume what the government itself was most likely to be the pump price when it presented the state budget and it was adopted in this room at the end of November last year. Then it was said that according to the oil price the government intended, the pump price would be around NOK 11. We take that into account now, when we see that it's going in the wrong direction and most people experience a significant contraction in their economy due to high fuel charges. So this is just a step on the way. For the Progress Party, it is clear that we want a significant cut in the taxes and taxes that the government parties are happy to collect from the Norwegian people and from Norwegian drivers through sky-high fuel charges, through annual taxes, through one-off charges, through tolls. You take in 40, 50, 60 billion dollars a year, and you give back only a quarter for road use. It is a development the Progress Party does not support, and we will go in the opposite direction. But this concrete proposal is based on the fact that this is a revised budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e401	From the last point of view, I understand that there is more oil on the fire until the fall. I'm going to deal with another topic that the representative Leirstein was dealing with. That was the situation for the police. Meritfully, Leirstein faced the specific challenges of the Oslo Police. Usually the Progress Party listens to the police’s advice, and the Progress Party is in the leadership seat of this city. I also understood that the representative, Mr Leirstein, agreed that the public funds should be managed in the best possible way. The Oslo police are slaughtering the alcohol policy action plan of the Advance Party and the Right Town Council, which is a little specific to that plan. Will there be any hope that the Progress Party will listen to the police and ensure that an alcohol policy is adopted, which will reduce violence and crime than is the case today?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e410	I also note that the Progress Party sits in the City Council in Oslo thanks to - largely - good support from the Christian People's Party. That, of course, delights me. It's just that it's not obvious that everything the police bring is something you automatically jump on and say is a good idea. Nor has it been our point when we support the police in relation to increased resources. Police have to do their priorities, and, like many other agencies, Oslo police are a consultative body for the development of alcohol policy guidelines in this city. For the Progress Party, it is a starting point that you have to look at the recordings you get, and then you have to look at what is a sensible policy from a liberal point of view. We are absolutely convinced that liberal giving times, among other things, are provides for smaller taxi cows, smaller collections of people who are going home at the same time, a better flow in them. We therefore believe it would be wrong to have a significant tightening, as some representatives in Oslo and the Oslo Police want. Obviously, if the police's advice were to be followed in everything, you could probably go to the extreme to say that if you had monitored everyone's home, you might have gotten down on the crime, but there's something about actually having to weigh something in the policy you're facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e419	The political spokesperson of the Progress Party has great boldness - must be friends with everyone. It is quite common to meet even prisoners in prisons who feel that the Advance Party is the party for them - with a line under it. They have money for a lot of good purposes. What the Progress Party is now called just a modest adjustment is plus NOK 11 billion in the revised national budget. There are small requirements for priorities. One should not go through the loops, but either live under the parole you take it, then you take it. More money will be spent on the state budget. No one passes the Progress Party in increased appropriations. The question is gross domestic product, relative numbers, the relationship between the private sector and the public sector. Does the Progress Party believe that a person should spend relatively more on public budgets than is the government's policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e426	This is, as we know, the revised national budget, and our proposals take that into account. If one looks at our overall economic policy, the representative, Lundteg, also knows that we are putting it into our alternative state budget, which we are promoting every harvest. And then we're going to have a little more than a year to hope that then it's not an alternative state budget we're putting forward, but then it's the representative Lundtigen who is putting forward an alternative state budget, because we're going to present the main state budget. But now leave that debate. If you look at our priorities in such a setting, you will see that the Progress Party chooses to go in for significant cuts in a number of areas in many sectors in order to finance our additions and our priority of strengthening the budget in this way. What we spend more oil money on than other parties is on significant tax relief. We cut something like 22 billion kroner in taxes and charges in our proposal for the current year. We are very pleased with that and very proud of it, for in such a setting, as among other things. The representative, Mr Sanner, has been involved in the exchange of lines earlier today, as the new report of the SSB also shows, that it provides a dynamic tax policy that is very positive for all economic growth in Norway. It takes the Progress Party into account, and we will continue to pursue a policy in line with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e435	The representative, Leirstein, also showed in this post that the Progress Party has a love for asphalt laying. It's all right, although more and more of me believe that, for example. investing in a good school is an investment that yields as good returns as infrastructure. If you move out in real life -- where people most and e.g. The majority of road managers are affected by a sharp increase in the price of asphalt laying. They get a lot less kilometers away for the money. Then I ask the following question, which I have also asked the representative Tybring-Gjede before, but which I was not satisfied with the answer to: How high is the price increase to be before the Progress Party believes that there is a capacity problem in the economy? - Now it's 25 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e444	I understand that my challenge is to soften the representative Aasen Agdestein, since the representative Tybring-Gjedde has not done it before. I cannot guarantee that my answers to this question will be satisfactory for the representative of Aasen Agdestein. Let me just say that we actually agree on one thing: we agree that the increased oil price we see now means fewer kilometers of road in the field of asphaltification, than the government itself assumed it would be possible to implement in the current year. You don't get to build that number of kilometers of road, because the government doesn't go into any revised reinforcements at all in relation to asphalt laying. It means less use and less asphalting than you actually assumed. That is why the Progress Party takes this seriously and promotes the very concrete proposals needed in the economy. We also have the opportunity to have significant tenders in Europe, where we gain substantial access to labour. This will be no problem to deal with. I think many of these road managers who are referred to as most people would have been very happy if the alternative budget of the Progress Party in the transport sector had been adopted today, versus the lukewarm additions promoted by the government parties in their revised budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e453	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e456	A year before the election, we see which track some people want to get the election campaign into. SV has obviously given up winning the election by profiling their own policies - now we're going to talk more about the Right and the other bourgeois parties, and according to the party leader, put away silk gloves. The Labour Party has decided to make people think that the next autumn elections will be a referendum on the Norwegian model, neither more nor less. This shows more than anything that the red-green government is weakened. Instead of fulfilling your own promises and raising a vision for Norway, the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party invite you to join the process. We would like to hold a debate on the welfare community. But then the debate has to focus on the issues where we actually disagree, and not on the issues where there is broad political consensus. The tactics of the working party are well known: you construct an enemy image, and then you argue violently against it. When I sat together with Jens Stoltenberg in the Energy and Environment Committee, I remember that he always said, "Can't we drop the quarrel about things that we really agree on, and rather concentrate on the issues where there is a real political disagreement." I thought it was very well said at the time, and I still think it is a good delivery gel in the policy. There is no political disagreement that we should have general social security schemes and that the public should ensure good care for the elderly, modern hospitals, good schools and safe kindergartens. This is also underlined in the book «Hamshifte?» published by Fafo, where authors write: ‘Various governments have almost taken part in a race to develop public welfare and to combat poverty and inequality.’ That doesn't mean that the challenges are solved and that the consensus is total. Just to mention something: we see that poverty is increasing under the red-green government, that a large number of young people are interrupting education before they have completed high school, and that there are still over 700,000 people in pre-employment who are outside the labour market. Let's discuss how we can give people a new chance, and how we can create a society with opportunities for everyone. I don't think any parties have the one and full phase on these questions, but the Right has a number of proposals that deserve to be debated and not voted down almost on the autopilot of the red-green majority. In some areas, we see that the right and left sides point in different directions in the welfare debate. I would like to point out four specific areas: Firstly, we believe that welfare is more than publicly funded schemes. It's about being able to live on your own income, and there must be room for personal responsibility. It's about building up the many small and large communities in civil society that give life content and meaning. Secondly, although we agree that the public has a central responsibility in terms of financing and quality assurance of services, we obviously have a very different position in terms of who can provide them. For us, it is more important that Granny receives a good welfare and care service than that it has been publicly carried out. For us, it is more important that people receive rapid health care than that it has necessarily been carried out in a public hospital. In itself, a shortage of services has a value because it creates a dynamic development of services. Where the Workers' Party chooses public solutions because they are public, the Right will invite for an interaction between private, voluntary and public. Thirdly, further development of the welfare society is also about freedom of choice. This is a matter of value because it is about personal responsibility and where power should lie - whether it should be in bureaucratic bodies or with the individual. I also believe that freedom of choice will help to improve the quality of services, because the institutions will then have to adapt to the needs of users; it is not we, as users, who have to adapt to the services of institutions. Fourthly, to ensure well-being, values must also be created. Valuation is the very foundation of the welfare society. Norway needs a renewed and forward-looking industrial policy focusing on a lower level of taxation, increased investment in infrastructure and a significant boost to knowledge and research. In recent years, the modernisation of the public sector has stopped, partly because the Government suffers from an allergy to private solutions and Public Private Cooperation, but also because the Government’s main sponsor opposes conversion. In a recent report, two BI researchers conclude that the transformation of a number of government agencies into self-employed enterprises has been successful and has provided both cheaper and better services. It tells us that modernising the public sector is a central measure to enhance the well-being of Norway, because we release hands for care, and because we receive both cheaper and better services. So what does this have to do with the revised national budget? Well, quite simply, if it were right, as the Labour Party claims, that the Right will almost dismantle the welfare community, you would have to see the traces of this in the Right Alternative Budget. Of course, when I raise poverty reduction, the drop-out from high school and the importance of helping more people back to work as key challenges, it must also be reflected in our alternative budgets. Of course, when I point to personal responsibility, diversity, freedom of choice and value creation as conflict areas in the welfare debate, our concrete solutions must also reflect this. What then does the Right propose in its alternative budget? We're proposing over 700 million. Dr. to the hospitals in North, Middle and West Norway, to ensure an equivalent treatment offer in Health-Norway.We propose more than 200 million. in addition to the poverty reduction government, to strengthen the housing support system, to ensure a graduated kindergarten price and to increase drug treatment. We propose the introduction of a base deduction into the document fee in order to make the entry ticket significantly easier for young people on the housing market. These proposals contribute to strengthening, not weakening, well-being. The right proposes measures to strengthen the recruitment of teachers, better school management and senior measures for teachers. We propose increased appropriations for teaching aid, summer schooling and increased measures to strengthen basic adult competence. And we're proposing more money for higher education and research. Strengthening school is the best investment in tomorrow’s well-being, and is in practice the most important social policy measure because education is the key to work and to living a life of independence. The right is proposing to increase the amount of traffic appropriations by nearly 600 million. kr., to compensate for increased petrol and diesel prices, but most of the increases go to road and rail investment. Good infrastructure is an important prerequisite for a future-oriented industrial policy. That's why this has a high priority in the Right. On the right, real re-priorities in the budget, while on the other hand, we spend NOK 1 billion less of the money from the Pension Fund than the Government. There is still a considerable shortage of labour, there is a strong increase in costs, and there is still a danger of even more interest rate increases. The right considers that we should use fiscal and structural policies more actively to mitigate the pressure on interest rates. Therefore, we use less oil money, but even more importantly, we are promoting a whole of 32 concrete measures to increase labour supply. I agree with the Minister of Finance when she says that Norway does not lack money, but hands. In contrast to the Government, we must make concrete proposals on how to increase the supply of work. It does so in its alternative budget, among other things. by making it possible for the 68- and 69-year-olds to work without having to deduct from their social security. We also propose a significantly improved savings scheme, both for BSU and for pension saving. There is every reason to rejoice that there are good times in the Norwegian economy, but if the good times are to last, a new Council of State is not enough, then a new policy is needed. I use the opportunity to address the proposals that the Right promotes alone or with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e514	The representative Jan Tore Sanner has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e519	Right-wing charges the government of the dull to run one for expansionary fiscal policies, thus increasing interest rates. In the 2008 Right Alternative State Budget, they propose, as the representative referred to, a reduction of 1 million. kr. My question to the fiscal spokesman and the Vice-President of the Right is: Does the Right believe that this is sufficient to prevent such interest rate increases as we have seen recently? Isn't this criticism becoming a little bit hollow and--as I see it--a little powerless, when the Right doesn't go harder to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e526	I am a little surprised that the Workers' Party and the government parties do not show a greater understanding of the problems of the strong interest rate increase for young people with large loans. We now see a rather dramatic redistribution from young people with poor advice and large loans to well-established people with a lot of money on book. So interest rate increases are one of the most unsocial things we can experience. I've said before, and I know that there are a lot of reasons why interest rates have been rising. But the fact that we have been given expansionary budgets, that the government is doing little or nothing to increase the supply of work, and that saving is less favourable, helps to push up the interest rate. And then I agree, as the representative said, that the right-hand side has tightened by just 1 million. kr, it would have been too puzzled. We're now saving over $1 billion on a half-year basis, but that's not the most important thing. The most important thing we do to reduce the pressure on interest rates is that we have a package of measures with 32 measures to increase the supply of work. This would help us to have more hands that could handle the larger amount of money.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e532	The representative Sanner said in his speech that he shared the finance minister's assessment, that there is no more money we need, but more hands. He also stressed the importance of fighting poverty, including the Right. Then I expect that the representative Sanner is also well satisfied that, after this government took over, we are now in a situation where we have had 200,000 more in work in the last three years and that unemployment is halved. These are both several hands at work and good poverty reduction. Nevertheless, there are 40,000 unemployed in Norway. The right-hand side proposes to cut down 3000 ordinary action posts in the budget. They have compensatory measures for 1000 of these, but 2000 jobseekers would have to deal with the Right-wing scheme without action. They're also cutting 160 million. NOK to this. How did the Right think these 2,000 people would get into work? Or does Right think that they are not needed in Norwegian working life? Is this one of the contributions of the Right to Combat Poverty in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e541	I am not satisfied that 200,000 have entered the labour market, but I think it is a pleasure. I think it is gratifying that we have got more into the labour market, and that unemployment is low. I think we should be able to enjoy that, from the right-hand side to the left-hand side. It is absolutely right that we have reduced something on the ordinary labour market measures. Labour market measures are targeted at ordinary labour. We do not see the same need, in the current labour market situation, to have a very high level of ordinary labour market measures. I note that the Government also agrees. What we're doing, on the other hand, is we're increasing the number of labour market measures against those who have the big problems on the labour market. They're the ones who're rehabing, and they're the ones who need more work training. There we increase the measures, and we have specific measures aimed at those who have the biggest problems. That is why we also introduce green care and a number of measures aimed at, among other things. previous drug abusers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e550	Again one tries to create the impression that the Right is the guarantor of the welfare society, that the Right is the guarantor of better well-being funded by the State budget. At the same time, the Right says that the government's revised national budget is too expansive, that the government spends too much money. To get this contradiction to join together, right-to-trick tricks that are not possible to practice. One of the major funding elements of this revised national budget is a reduction of 592.3 million. kr for the implementation of the 2008 Agreement on Agriculture, where the money has already been paid to professionals. Get it out of here! My comment is: the core of the Right Vision is to transfer several parts of society to the private market, whether it be ownership of power plants or care for the elderly. I now think more and more should be aware that the main right point is the transfer of tasks to private individuals, without even focusing on the monopolistic nature of the private sector, which causes the private sector to obtain profits that are quite unreasonably high, regardless of a public correction that ensures competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e557	Let me first thank the representative Lundtigen for choosing to join the bourgeois parties in the Trillemark case. I think it is very gratifying that Lundtägen, on behalf of the Centre Party, has joined with the bourgeoisie to safeguard the interests of the landowners and municipalities. With regard to the other posts of the representative, I believe that the public should not just be a guarantee or a corrective one. In fact, we believe that the public has a very central and decisive responsibility for financing and quality assurance welfare services. But the right does not suffer from the same allergy as the red-green batches in terms of private solutions and private alternatives. We want interaction, interaction between public and private and non-governmental organisations. It is not that the Right goes into the ditch and shouts privately, where the Workers' Party goes into the ditch and shouts publicly. We want interaction between public and private and non-governmental organisations. We think that will provide better and more services to the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e564	Jan Tore Sanner used parts of his post to warn against what he calls political mudbathing between the parties here at Stortinget. During my years here on Stortinget and through the last campaign I have learned that then you should listen very carefully, because the Right knows very well what they are talking about when they warn against something. On the right is the party that used large parts of the election campaign in 2005 to warn against the socialists, the red danger. If it's not called political mudbathing, I don't know! And the right has continued into this period, where the party has learned from the Progress Party, where you play dissatisfaction, and where to those degrees you are involved in blacklining the situation. I think Mr. Sanner is correcting some of the impressions through parts of his post here. But if we're going to talk about the real political differences, to those degrees, we've been demonstrating it here this spring from the two parties that might be future partners - the Right and the Advance Party. I would like to ask: how will Jan Tore Sanner characterise the economic policy of the Progress Party - which they will lead in government together?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e571	The representative, Mikalsen, began by claiming that the Right was working with black paint and political mudbathing, among other things. Because we had called some of the present parties socialists. I thought it was an honorary name for those who have actually entered socialist parties. I wouldn't see it as demeaning if the representative Mikalsen called me a liberal, conservative depositor from the Right. On the contrary, I would feel quite proud! When it comes to characterising the economic policy of the Progress Party, I actually don't need to do that. I think it speaks for itself! For four years in government, we have reached a good budgetary agreement with the Progress Party. Within the responsible framework, we have found solutions that both the Right, the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party have been well pleased with. We actually ensured good development in Norway in the four years we ruled, and we had a good cooperation with the Progress Party, including in terms of economic policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e578	The representative, Sanner, was in public welfare and would like to see private services occurring in an interaction with a public offer. I ask the question, does this not imply that it is actually a private service offer? Does Sanner realize that this can happen all over the country? My dialect tells me that I'm from Northern Ireland, and I want to remind you of geographic size. Westfold states are, for example, less than the municipality of Rana to the extent. Will the private service offer be available there? Sanner was also in this area with the modernisation of the public sector. I was in the public sector for over 30 years and have seen a continuous modernisation process, but there are many of those who have been exposed to an intense reformer who have come to me with a heart attack, and they say: Let's finish one reform first, and see the effect of it, before we get the next! Does Sanner have a sense of such an argument?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e585	With regard to the government's allergy to private solutions, we see it in particular in the area of child protection, we see it in the area of care for the elderly, and we see it in the area of rehabilitation. I've visited child protection institutions, rehabilitation agencies and drug care institutions throughout the country, including in North Norway. I have met many of those who have worked, and still work, in these institutions, who are deeply unhappy because they burn to give children and former drug users a good offer. But now they are being squandered because we have a government that gives a clear direction signal that priority should be given to public service production and that we should build up the private sector. There has been a cry of warning from the pulpit here from a representative of the Socialist Left, who told how unhappy he was about the fate of many of the private child protection institutions. When the government goes on an autopilot with its red, ideological glasses, and does not want an interaction and cooperation between public and private and non-governmental organisations, it hits the weakest in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e594	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e597	This spring is the story of a more fair Norway and a Norway that takes the first important steps to help save the world’s climate. Norway is becoming more fair. It was just going to be one year with the red-green government before the differences between those with high and those with low incomes got smaller. After four years with Erna Solberg, Dagfinn Høybrätten and Lars Sponheim, well supported by Siv Jensen, after four years with increased differences and targeted tax credits to the richest, the differences began to decrease in 2006 - our red-green government's first year. In the spring, we got the evidence from the Statistical Central Bureau. Since then, we have taken important steps. The number of poor people who are lagging behind others in society has been reduced from 2006 to today. We've got unemployment down. We have 1.5 pst. registered completely unemployed. There are 36,944 who are completely unemployed, and we have 32,857 job vacancies. That game is the few other countries in the world that have. Getting people to work is the best way to reduce poverty. Unemployment is wasted on the resources of society and bad for the people affected. We are helping to reduce unemployment - as opposed to the Right, Left and Advance Party, which is cutting labour market measures and which prioritises tax relief rather than helping people. We've got the lowest social security. In a split-up between the state and the pensioners, we've got a low-wage settlement for all the insured, where everyone gets better social security, but where everyone's contributed to giving a boost to those who have the worst advice - a minimum pension promise of up to NOK 136 000 this year and up to NOK 142 500 to next year, plus what's going on with the rise in wages. It's a real boost, which helps some of those who can't afford it get out of poverty. We're setting up a qualification programme in the municipality by municipality this year, so that everyone who's in a race where they qualify for a job is also given better advice. We've got a real boost in social assistance rates -- we did that last year. The previous government, supported by the Progress Party, only adjusted social aid rates for a few years. We have adjusted them as prices increase every year, and we took that promise in 2007. We'll continue that line in the time that's coming. The right-hand side is not trusted. The left and right will increase the cost of children in kindergartens. This hits them with the worst of advice and makes them more expensive for families with young children. We freeze the price of kindergartens and build places that never before - 36 000 built in the last two years. We're further focused on children who don't master the school and who can't crack the reading code in the first few years, getting more hours from this year, and more teachers in the class from next year, in the first four years of school. Here the left fails, which cuts in the hours we want to introduce. It doesn't just keep giving a boost to the poor. We have to equalize the differences. We have understood that, and that's what Professor Kristian Andenæs says: Those who are weakest are those who have the greatest need for rights. That is why universal arrangements in a distribution and solidarity society are what needs to be done. This spring is also the story of a Norway that takes the first important steps to help save the global climate. We have made a climate deal that we are pleased to have achieved, and we have set climate targets that seem ambitious now, but which probably need to be revised as the climate noise becomes more and more severe. We have three main tasks: we have to emit less CO2 from oil production, we have to emit less CO2 from industry, and we have to emit less CO2 when we travel. Therefore, we electrify platforms, and we increase the investment support for each wind power project, so that we can get new projects announced. We're increasing climate research by 70 million. kr, we are strengthening the economy of higher education and universities, where the commitment to doing something about climate change is at its greatest now. We're increasing the stakes on the railway, and we're putting full pressure on upgrading the Oslo tunnel, which creates so much trouble for all the commuters across the East and for freight traffic across the country. And then we give more money to both ferries and public transport to pay for the increased costs. High petrol and diesel prices are important to reduce emissions. Either the increased price comes from the fact that Chinese and Indians want to drive as much car as we do, while oil production was flattening out, or as a result of an increase in pollution charges. So that's why we can't have a political debate where people aren't willing to stand up and take the necessary steps to save the world's climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e636	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e640	There were many things I could take up here, but I'm going to come back to it in my post a little later today. In the revised government reports that the influx of asylum to Norway will increase from 5,500 to 10,500 - close to a double. This is what we experience in Norway, despite the fact that our neighbouring countries are experiencing the opposite trend. At the same time, it is announced that municipalities will be forced to establish asylum receptions against political wishes in the respective municipalities, and I assume that not all of these 5 000 new asylum seekers will possibly live in Hanssen County Tent Camp. How does the representative Holmås explain that exactly Norway, right at these times, experiences this increased influx of asylum, when our neighbouring countries experience the opposite? What are the signals they may have received? Does the representative believe it is right for municipalities to be forced, against a political majority in the municipalities, to set up asylum-seekers?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e649	I don't know if Christian Tybring-Gjedde has come to realize that it's the refugees' day in the world today? - No, he doesn't. So the number of refugees on the globe is increasing, the number of refugees is rising, for just one reason, and that is that part of the conflicts that exist in the world today is getting rougher and harder. This causes more people to drift away. Clearly, if you don't think about what's the real situation in the world today when you evaluate how many refugees Norway should accept, you'll end up quickly with a kind of calculation principle that only says: There are more refugees here, so there must be something wrong here. So there's something wrong with the world in some areas. I am proud that we in Norway are pursuing a decent refugee and asylum policy, and have done so more now than was done under the previous government, which had narrowed down as its sole purpose and thought, well supported by the Progress Party. Taking care of people who are fleeing from wars in the world, where we also have soldiers ourselves, is extremely important for solidarity and for human dignity.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e659	There will be more justice," said the representative Holmås. I hardly think the poor people who heard that it was just political will and a pen stroke that was going to experience it. Poverty exists at best. The right has proposed a number of measures against poverty in its alternative budget, up to 200 million. kr. Now we heard the chairman of the committee say quite negligently about the opposition's proposals that they were rematches. I have a specific, close question to the representative Holmås, and that is what is down the street here. A total opposition has made room for 500,000 kroner to the Fattighuset, as a regulation of an annual budget of 700 billion kroner. Does the representative Holmås, like the representative Sandal, also think that this is almost an untimely struggle on the part of the opposition, or does he have other thoughts about that action?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e666	I think it's nice that we come up with proposals to support the organisations of the poor. I think it's reasonable to say that there actually the government has done a decent job. So after we took over from the previous government, which I think made too little poverty and instead used the money as a tax haven for the richest, we've made sure to give 10 million. kr. to the organisations of the poor, with a view to providing critical voices and good proposals. We need to do a good job to make sure we fight poverty and get social cohesion. These organisations are crucial to that end. We are going to continue to fight poverty in the years to come, but I believe that the Right, like the cutters in the labour market measures, does not have its way when they attack us. So I mean that when we get to a very nice social security settlement in cooperation with all the organizations that are involved in taking that solidarity promise, in order to raise the people who have the lowest social security, we show very clearly that here we are doing things as monks in the big context.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e673	When the budget was presented, the representative Holmås was very critical of his own government on one point, namely the housing support scheme. He was, in fact, so sharp that he levelled bang hard criticism against the Center Party, which he thought stood in the way of a bet on this. Then we have heard earlier today that the necessary adjustments and revisions have now been made by the majority parties. I have not seen anything happen in the case of the housing aid scheme, which has been pointed out as one of the main instruments for targeting the poor, as the representative Holmås was in his contribution. My question is: has the Senterpartie once again broken representative Holmås and SV in the attempt to do something about the housing support system?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e682	The housing support system is a very important system, where today there are some disadvantages and difficulties because if you are insured, you have the opportunity to get housing support, but if you have equal income, you don't get it. That's why the government now has a review of the housing support system, and we're looking at it. We will come back with an assessment of the housing aid scheme in the ordinary budgetary procedures, i.e. in the budget for the autumn. We'll have a proper discussion then, and then we'll see if Hans Olav Syversen is satisfied with the job we're doing there, or if he's not. Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, as a municipal minister, has been aware that in terms of housing policy, both housing support scheme and rental housing, there is a grip that needs to be taken, and she has set it as her priority no. one on the agenda. Then we'll see.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e689	Yeah, we'll see. While the representative Holmås has stood on the pulpit, seismics are being shot outside the Lofoten and the Vestral, based on appropriations promoted by this government and SV's party leader as Minister of Finance. Following the launch of this seismic study, much more information has emerged on the uncertainties about the consequences. The fishermen - who have been fishing there for generations - have been hunted down on land to calm down this oil and gas activity. The left promotes proposals, of course to cut the money for this, but perhaps more important is a proposal that will be considered later today to stop seismic shooting with immediate effect until the consequences for fish and fisheries and the future are explored. Will the SV support that proposal when it comes to voting this afternoon?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e700	We're not going to do that. This matter has been dealt with by the Government as the appropriate body at the different levels in the assessment of this. But I think Lars Sponheim knows well -- and he can be quite sure -- that in terms of oil extraction and drilling outside the Lofoten, we're going to be very hard to make sure that we get it stopped, and we're going to make sure to continue the moratorium we've been given in relation to the protection zones outside both the Lofoten and the West Pole. In the extension of this debate that has been about seismic shooting, it is gratifying to experience that the majority of the population in the whole country - not least the majority in Northern Norway - supports the position that both the SV and the Left have agreed on, namely that we should not have any oil drilling outside the Lofoten and the West Sea. Here we know that there will be new rounds after the election next year. Here we have to stand shoulder to shoulder to make sure that this policy goes on as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e709	The rhetoric of the representative Holmås is quite easy to recognize. One of the birthrights he comes with is that now we have to take the rich - cost what it will cost. There is a lot of evidence that these costs of having an SV in the government are now coming to light. Wednesday -- in the past -- came the sad message that the rudder layer Wilh. Wilhelmsen is about to fly out. That means that maritime competence built through generations is about to disappear from Norway. BW Gass has also reported that they are about to fly out, and they justify that there is a lack of diligence in tax policy that makes it impossible to stay in Norway. My question is: does the representative Holmås see that this is unfortunate, that this can cause negative ringing effects, or did the representative Holmås think it was just okay, nice and nice to get rid of these rich riders?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e718	There are certainly some points of view between the two extremes that the representative Hageseter drew up here. I don't think this is going to have negative ring effects. I think that Norwegian shipbuilding and Norwegian technology environments, if they're the best, are going to be able to deliver the goods. We also see a good many shipping companies registered in other parts of the world actually ordering services from Norwegian shipyards and Norwegian suppliers. So I don't think there's any reason to worry, even though some of these companies are flagging out. So it's important to say one thing, and that's that there's only some of the ships they flag out. They keep all the old ones. Those are the new ships they're flagging out. And the uncertainty about the Norwegian tax system that it is said that we have, I have said that I don't believe in. We have now introduced a zero-tax regime. So if you change the tax policy, these companies have the ability of all the world to move out. But they have done as they have done, and I guess the Progress Party has not intended to rule them either.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e726	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e729	It is well permissible to establish that the red-green government is getting relatively bored, despite the fact that it has strong drags from a strong economy, as we also see when the revision of the budget comes. In addition, NOK 3.8 billion has been made available by the Government through increased tax receipts and increased dividend income estimates. So the total revision of the 2008 budget has an additional DKK 10.6 billion at its disposal because of the same conditions, as well as a reduced estimate of the cost of public spending. So the question is, what do you do with this unique freedom of action? What most surprised the Christian People's Party when the revision of the budget was presented was that there was almost zero commitment to poverty. When you think about what this government has had of increased tax revenue from 2005, almost 150 billion dollars, and relative to how little has gone into increasing efforts to combat poverty, it is a great paradox for me and for the Christian People's Party. In addition, when you choose to pay some of the environmental responsibility we have by taking money from the aid budget, the paradox is nothing less. We can't accept that 175 million. SEK of the rainforest bet shall be covered by cuts in the aid to the poor of the world. Such a commitment must also be made, not as a substitute for assistance. That is why we are also proposing a revision of this in the revised budget. As regards measures against poverty, the representative Holmås was involved in something that might be indicative of the Government. We'll see, he said in a reply to me about the housing support system. Yeah, we'll see. What we know is that it is fully possible to do something in the revision of the budget without taking the major reviews, to which it was referred, among other things. the requirements of the House Bank to whom can actually receive support through the arrangements of the House Bank. There are also other measures in the field of poverty with which we should do something, and with which the Government does nothing. There are still many who are in line for vocational assistance and assistance. In spite of this, there is no significant increase in the number of contributions made by the Government to the budget. We should do something about that. And then to something that's really on my mind, and that I know there's a lot of people in the government parties that are bobbing over. This is how you can sit still and see that many institutions that treat drug users go doll. That's what happens in corporations after corporations, which, after all, the government has a general responsibility to do something about. It's a paradox for me that you sit still in the government and watch it for example. in the health of the south-east, there are so many institutional sites that it directly affects those who want treatment, but do not receive treatment. In Health South-East, the situation now is that in order to enter emergency treatment, the waiting time is more than five weeks. Then you can ask yourself what's left of emergency treatment. For those who want longer-term rehabilitation, the waiting time is now more than five months. It is clear that the motivation of those who want and need help and assistance does not have a tolerance limit corresponding to such a waiting time. I would really like the Government to take action, not because we in the Christian People's Party or others mean it, but because those who depend on this help need it. We would also like to see funds put in to do something for those who actually pay the most for kindergartens. According to the Central Statistical Office, the worst-sponsored are those who have received the highest increase in kindergarten rates - 25 p.m. in two years. Nevertheless, the Government does not contribute anything to the income upgrading of kindergarten rates. So you could do something for relatively few dollars, which would raise those that need it the most. I also think that right in this area there are a lot of deep inside government parties that agree that we could add the 15 million. kr which could contribute in this way. At all, I'm concerned about how the voluntary organizations experience a regime by what can be called the business model, which is becoming a bigger and bigger problem. When, in writing to the Economic and Social Committee, which has examined a proposal for a tender for non-governmental organisations and drug care, the Salvation Army states that it is in doubt that non-profit organisations are involved and operate institutions in Norwegian drug care in five years' time, then it should ring a bell far into the Government and in the ranks of the government parties. We can't afford to lose the important partners represented by the voluntary organisations, who have such a long historical tradition of building up with the help of those who need it the most in society. Here we really should agree to strengthen the framework conditions for these types of institutions and organisations. In our alternative budget, we also focus on increasing school effort, but we don't do it the way the government does it. We don't want more hours. We want to fill the hours we already have with more quality. We see that the government chooses a different line, despite warnings from both professionals and others about what is really needed in Norwegian school. We also want in this budget a stronger turn in the direction of taxation. We're increasing environmental taxes and taxes by 350 million. kr for 2008, but this is what we are giving back to the business community and to the private through other tax reliefs, which are designed to ensure that we also have a good and functioning business life in the coming period. We are also strengthening the appropriations for public transport, and I am pleased that the government parties have also found that pot to be able to raise it somewhat in the context of the revision of the budget, although it has obviously been far inside. Several have been in hospitals, and we are pleased to see that pension expenditure is now being settled, which amounts to billions. So there is one thing that remains, and that is the 2007 cost of increasing pension costs for non-profit private hospitals. The government has done nothing about this, and we hope, believe and challenge the Government to do something about this in the budget. Then I will finally say a few words about child and family protection. We see increased queues both within child protection and within family protection. Here, too, not least in terms of family protection, there are questions about relatively few dollars to help families get help far earlier than they do today. Unfortunately, the government also seems to have ideological problems that many volunteers are involved in family protection. You can't look at this, but you put it in the screw stroke, so they don't have the money to develop their own organisation and the subject that family protection actually represents. I can't believe that this is really crazy politics, but then it's required that you take some action from the political team in the government as well. I started by saying that the government is struggling despite good economics. I would also say that it could probably be the case for almost any government, and it's a challenge for all of us: there's such a strong expectation in the Norwegian people about what any sitting government is going to be able to meet with expectations, that you can sometimes wonder where it's going to end. When we had our summer break, someone said we should have a people's movement against sewing. It might be tempting to see if we couldn't guess with any dollars to encourage such a movement. I am not quite sure how much the upsurge had become, but it could be a wish, probably also seen by the Government. With this I address our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e763	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e768	In his statement, the representative Mr Syversen spoke consistently about this budget, this budget on which it has not been delivered. This is a budget, and it is also a revised budget. As I know the representative of the Seven and Christian People's Party, it is a serious party in economic policy. I know that the representative Syversen knows that it is not possible to put all that will into a revised budget, because then we are going to revise it. But when the representative is so concerned about poverty, my question is: Is high employment, i.e. work for everyone, the social security settlement that we have now had, and the qualification programme where the government spends 230 million. Is it for those who do not have work to get into work, measures to reduce poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e775	I fully agree with the representative Sund that the Christian People's Party is a serious party on economic issues. That's what I'm going to end up with. I also agree that many of the general measures to which Mr Sund referred are also important in the fight against poverty. But I don't think one comes from the fact that, in addition to the general, to which she referred, one must also strengthen the targeted measures. I mentioned rushes, and I mentioned family protection. I mentioned poverty reduction, including: by increasing the allocation of the housing support schemes. I believe, frankly, that the representative Sund also agrees that one does not exclude the other, and that it may well be far into the ranks of her own party that it is disappointing that it does not do more in the fight against poverty, including in this revision.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e782	Too many children leave school without being able to read and write properly. Too many children don't have a good enough sense of numbers. Being able to read and write and understand numbers, depth and space is important and necessary to master life and succeed in school. We can't accept that that's the way it is, and this government is doing a lot of this. From the fall of the year, we are expanding, for example: the five-hour period from the first to the fourth step. These are hours of reading, writing and understanding numbers. This is early work in practice. From next year there will also be more teachers in these steps. It is important to address the problems before they grow too large and too difficult. This is prevention in practice: give young people a solid and good start to build on this in their lives. In its alternative budget proposal, the Christian People's Party cuts this hour-long extension, a cut of 400 million. kr. This is surprising. My question to the Christian People's Party is: Why isn't the Christian People's Party on the government's priority in school?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e789	With regard to the description of how important the school is, not least in a social cohesion situation, I don't think there's any disagreement between the representative Jensen and me, or SV and the Christian People's Party, for that matter. But with regard to the arrangements for the use of the money in the budget, there is a significant difference. The SV and the Government are waiting for more hours. The Christian People's Party says no, now we should use the extra resources we have, to strengthen the teaching of the hours we have. When, for example, the representative Jensen refers to mathematics, writing and reading, this is exactly one of the points: we put the resources in the teachers, more teachers in the hours we have. But it can also mean that you can take out groups of classes, give extra education where you need it, just to those students who have the biggest challenge of mastering both reading, writing and mathematics. We think that's better use of the money than the government adds up to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e794	The Political Spokesman of the Christian People's Party spoke well in his speech for international solidarity, for the weak groups, for the voluntary organisations and for a greater need for and emphasis on green taxes. The Christian People's Party is putting on a little bit more than the government at all of these points, and that's the opposition's privilege. But I say I'm glad that the Christian People's Party has that focus, and I want the Christian People's Party to continue to have that focus on the things that are mentioned here. When it was a special greeting to the housing support, I think the voters of the Christian People's Party are pleased that it is the municipal minister Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa who is responsible for it, and that it then has great opportunities to be improved. My comment is just that I hope the Christian People's Party will take the consequences of emphasising themes, and that in the big political choices ahead they will also take the consequences of it. It strengthens the credibility of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e801	I thank you for the comment on my post. I think that, insofar as the representative Lundteg had a good summary of what is the essence of our alternative to the government's revised budget, namely the involvement of the groups he mentioned. I can assure the representative, Lundtigen, that we will also bet on them in the budget that comes to the harvest. When the representative says that we surely find it reassuring that it is Meltveit Kleppa who is presenting changes to the housing support system, I think I almost have to quote Heikki Holmås, who was very sharp on the centre party when the ordinary budget came, and said that here it was not done much from the centre party when it was the housing support: we get to see, said the representative Holmås. I'll say the same thing: we'll see. We hope and believe that the proposals for changes that we know are needed will come. So far, we think that's going to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e806	I am pleased that the Christian People's Party, with several other parties, is with the government parties in terms of increasing focus on the environment in this budget, and among other things. supports the proposal on petrol and diesel prices. I believe that both the representative Syversen and many of us must admit that the polluter pays principle is good and good, but that it can conflict with the issues of distribution policy and poverty of which the representative Syversen has been concerned. In the setting, the Christian People's Party, and the representative Syversen also said in his post, that they want a reinforced green tax policy, and one of the proposals is an increased electricity tax. Christian People's Party has experience in ruling with high power prices, and it may not just be a pleasant experience. Does the Christian People's Party see that this has a policy of distribution that cannot be corrected politically - especially when it is business that receives these tax reliefs - because those who are hit most by high electricity prices are those who are often not in a tax position?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e815	Yes, I see that can be a challenge. At the same time, our response to the Government is that when you increase, for example. taxes that also affect those who do not have that much, it is a challenge that we take seriously. Therefore, we are somewhat surprised that the Government does not strengthen the targeted measures to address poverty. When, for example: in the case of electricity, those affected by this, who do not have additional funds to pay such a bill, may obtain support. It is precisely where the housing aid scheme could have been used to get the aid directly to those who need it the most. I can assure the representative, Aasen Agdestein, that exactly the distributional nature of the tax and tax arrangements, we are concerned about, and we compensate for that by ensuring that those who need it receive targeted measures through other budget lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e823	I am pleased that the representative of Syversen addresses this with the fight against poverty in a country like Norway. With the stamp we have received in the world, we should avoid such a situation that is described. My question is: does Syversen agree that the most effective use of poverty reduction funds will be to strengthen the municipal budgets? My claim is that the municipalities, through their knowledge of the inhabitants, through their organizations, with their apparatus, are the ones who have the best knowledge of where the shoe prints. This refers to housing aid schemes, investment grants, fuel subsidies - a number of measures in the municipal sector. These types of schemes could have been targeted at the nearest millimetre - strengthening the local economy, which the local government minister has signaled will be a good tool.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e830	At least there is a need to strengthen the local economy. With the cost growth that many municipalities now experience, it is absolutely necessary. I agree that a good municipal economy is important in order to reach those who need it the most, including in Kommune-Norway. At the same time, I and the Christian People's Party are concerned that you also see to it that there is a life outside the state and the municipality. We have a wide range of voluntary organisations, which are making an incredibly important and incredibly focused effort for those who work the most in this society. I would essentially encourage the Government to spend a little more time and also to make sure that non-governmental organizations get viable conditions, and not strangle them, which unfortunately has been the case within the care of the last few years, and unfortunately then under the control of this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e837	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e840	The revised national budget of the year, which we are discussing today, is very sober. There is a strong focus on the revision of the State budget based, inter alia, on: decisions with financial implications taken since the adoption of the budget for this year during the harvest. It is a pressing step forward for the addition of changed prices and costs, of which we now have a better overview, and there are only some important adjustments, where the appropriations for the pension expenditure of health enterprises are the most important. It is not right to say that the revised national budget of the year is expansive - this is in relation to the cost developments that are part of today's high economic cycle, as well as the expectations that most people have that public appropriations should ensure a better level of equity between the private and public sectors. The government adds the template for the opposition parties. There are many who want more money for good purposes, but it is the government that has to reconcile the whole based on some priorities. We're in a strong economic climate, which offers great opportunities, and which has a lot of good sides. The most positive side that I would like to highlight is the possibility for weak groups to enter the labour market, and that it is very central and important in all of the Government's work to consolidate the situation of the weak groups in the labour market. It's extremely important. Obviously, economic activity also causes weaknesses. One of the most central is that it provides opportunities for an even greater degree of use-and-cast mentality from those with higher revenues than is needed to pay the obligations every month. There is a need to correct economic activity both in recessions and in economic upturns. In the early stages of economic activity, there is a need to correct economic activity for the benefit of the community and to build Norway. There has been too little room for it when cyclical and framework conditions give rise to strong activity growth in the private sector. It is difficult to break up lower private consumption growth in people with solid income, with the consequences it has for totality. It is a paradox in this debate that the opposition criticises the red-green government for a lack of public investment that not enough money is allocated to the state budget. It is in all modesty to turn the policy's main contradiction, the policy of distribution, the relationship between community and increased private wealth, upside down. People are told that it is the red-greens who have the greatest interest and responsibility to safeguard the interests of the community. That is proof of our long political tradition. The Right Party has been bluffed here today in terms of their revised national budget, as they outsmarted the fact that it is less expansive and finances the bulk of the budget with money already paid to private operators. Private saving will be a central theme in the future. There has been a negative saving for households in 2007. It's been many years since it was like this. We are now inside a more normal interest rate level, adapted to the economic cycle of the day. This will lead to an increase in savings. When there is such a safe employment, such a strong wage growth and such secure Community funding, it is quite obvious that it is extra demanding to understand the need to increase private savings. However, it is important to stimulate young people to increase their savings in order to ensure a more sober behavior, so that they can deal with tougher times when they come -- and that's what we know, President! We are facing a strongly imported price increase as a result of increased energy prices, including food prices and commodity prices. This leads to additional challenges for the Government to ensure that price increases are kept in check without an interest rate policy that creates even greater difficulties than many feel today. Finally, I would like to say that safeguarding the Community's interests during a boom is demanding. It is more difficult to slow down private consumption growth in order to make room for investment in the Community than to strengthen Community investment in a low economy in order to stimulate increased employment. Here lies the great challenge of the Government. The red-green voters--and far more than they-- are impatient. They want you to go even deeper into this challenge, and I'm pretty sure of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e866	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e869	We have witnessed that the government has imposed compulsory protection and violated private property rights in Trillemarka-Rollagsfjell. Now at least a joint development fund is set up for the three municipalities concerned, Rollag, Sigdal and Nore Uvdal in Buskerud. That's the cross-political agreement. The government proposed no more than 30 million. Over five years. However, the representative Lundtigen shares the views of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left that the fund should have a total of 100 million. kr. Will the representative Lundtigen guarantee that he and the Central Party will grant more on the 2009 state budget, or is it just talk and double communication with the voters?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e876	In the years I have been sitting here, I have witnessed strong statements from the Progress Party in Buskerud regarding Trillemarka. I have not seen much of the Advance Party at the meetings and events that have been on the matter. The centre party has now gone into that matter with the aim of getting away from conflict and into dialogue. An alternative was developed that was epocalypticly positive in order to engage in dialogue. It was not selected. As part of the government's solution, it was said to have a local administration in the area. When going from government to local government, it is not unnatural for the state to finance local government on a permanent basis, not just over a five-year period. That is what I have said in my remarks. I'm standing by. But that's not the central party's position, that's what more people have been up to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e881	Protection of Trillemarka has caused resentment between the landowners and the municipalities on the one hand and the central authorities on the other. The representative Lundtigen has been one of those who have consistently defended local democracy and stood for the interests of Rollag, Sigdal and Nore Uvdal. The government chose to outrun local democracy and went for a coercive solution that was far from that municipality and landowners had agreed, after a very good and active work locally. Then we have come into the situation that the representative Lundtigen must now admit that his remarks in connection with the revision are his own and not the Central Party. I found it a little eye-catching when the committee leader, Sandal, said, Lundtigen is talking on behalf of himself. I'm talking on behalf of the Center Party. Is it now the Workers' Party that governs the Central Party's policy in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e890	To get away from the cheap Young Right rhetoric, we can take a little historical review of the case. The term ‘Brende traps’ became known. There was a trap that was set up in Sigdal to catch types that went under the umbrella "Børge Burnde". It was a pretty fast way to go to create an understanding of a nature reserve in this area when the Right Party had contributed to the conflict that was there. When we know what's happened here, it's pretty bold to attack my person the way you do. I take note that the Government fell upon a different solution, both geographically and financially, than that of the community. I'm sorry about that from Stortingen's pulpit. You had the opportunity to get away from conflict and get dialogue, a conflict that the Right was the foremost exponent for when it was at worst.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e897	In its statement, the representative of Lundteg stressed the priority of Community solutions. I remember having a great sense of community solutions in the traditional meaning of the word. Community is important, but at the centre of Norwegian politics - and there has always been the Centre Party and the Left - it has always been clear that community is more than state and municipality, that community is more than government budget appropriations. It's from the fact that people in the community are finding themselves together to solve common tasks unselfishly, to the big organizations that are important drivers of community solutions -- unselfish and without profit. At the beginning of this debate, the National Association of Heart and Pulmonary Diseases protested against how their institutions for rehabilitation are being strangled by this government, because the ‘Community’ clearly does not include that community. Is the representative of Lundtigen satisfied that the Community concept of the red-green government does not capture all this unselfish community between people who do not live exclusively by the state budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e904	The representative Lars Sponheim knows that he is now talking to a better person. He knows that in this government there is a commitment to the community between the third sector, which is voluntary Norway, and public funding is very central. I think the representative should be careful about teaching the Center Party because you don't focus enough on it. We can only walk around Organisation-Norway and see how many of the Center Party's trust elected and co-players are key members of the Community-Norway. The center part wants to bet on this line. We want to do more along this line. We see the many positive things that are here, not least in criminal matters, crime, crime, and so on. It is completely impossible for the public to do a job here without ensuring a culture in which the people who need help have people in the local environment who can with a helping hand accompany and assist in everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e910	I wonder at the fact that the representative Lundtägen asks questions about the commitment of the Progress Party to this, and actually begins to ask for our participation in the Trillemarka case. I have personally been to Trillemarka several times. It may be that the representative Lundtigen has a little poor memory, but one of the times I was actually with Lundtegen in the woods in Trillemarka and met representatives from these municipalities. My question is then: Is the representative Lundtigen disappointed and dissatisfied with his own party, the Center Party, in this Trillemarka case?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e917	For us in the village there's something called that there won't be any summers of one swallow. I have to say that it is quite indicative of the participation of the Progress Party in this work: you have been so far inside and sung your short throat, and then you travel again. But there are others who have taken the job. I'm proud that someone else did the job. I hope that the Advance Party can take off the paint shoes and put on the rubber boots and do a larger part of the job. But now it's just a bold suggestion. Whether I'm disappointed or not - there's a lot of people in the Buskerud Center who are disappointed that the opportunity that this was right to get over from conflict to dialogue was not used. That's all I have to say to that. If you had done that, it would have had a far greater impact on the protection of biodiversity than many in this room are aware of, because there are a lot of people in the countryside who stand for a culture where you have these questions in focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e924	I think the representative Lundtigen misunderstood my post, because what I actually did was boasting of the representative's commitment to Trillemarka. Instead, I was met with a tiger about Young Right rhetoric, “Brende traps”, etc. I have also been to Trillemarka many times. I have been to public meetings and I have been told – which I also believe was partly justified – for the infringement that was done when there was a temporary protection of Trillemarka. But what happened afterwards was a positive process in which voluntary protection proposals were given greater emphasis. Then it's very surprising that a government that wants to be on the side of local democracy has chosen a solution with coercion, and is doing something over the head of local democracy, and that even the state in Buskerud disagreed with. Does the representative Lundtägen think it's a shame to stand here and say that he speaks on behalf of himself and not on behalf of his own party, and even less on behalf of the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e931	Then I'll be very short. I would like to thank the representative of Greece for the reputation he has now given to the representative of the Central Party from Buskerud. It's rarely diet. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e936	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e939	There are dramatic days in political Norway. The size has gathered to its last big plenary debate before the summer, and probably in this session. The debate is not just about a dramatic situation - I think it is sad and wrong, I had seen it as a matter of course that the country's Prime Minister had met his parliament in the situation we are now in, where all newspapers depict a government that has been severely weakened after the last few days. It would have required that we had had a broad and important political debate in this situation. But there is a debate on the revised national budget. I insist on what I have said in the past - and I have agreed on a number of revised treatments - that this is probably the most politically unsubstantiated revision-treatment I have been in. It bears witness to the entire treatment until now and to the interest surrounding it. All the pressure is gone. As far as I have been able to register, it has not been a single press person present in the main hall during the revision process, and it illustrates well what I am saying. It means that if we had had a broader and stronger debate on other and major political issues with the Prime Minister at this last major debate in Stortinget, it would not have gone much beyond the revision process. But it's not like that, and then we're going to deal with what the Storting wants to debate, while everyone else is dealing with other political issues at this moment. Instead of tying up all aspects of the budget and budget proposals, and disagreements that, despite everything in this context, are relatively small, and less than they might seem, I would like to contribute to raising some issues that I think are relevant in the context of this review and which have been part of the discussion in the Financial Committee. The first of those issues I leave a challenge to the government and finance minister for the last time I finished working on the 2009 government budget. I hope they can come and meet some of these challenges. In our country, where everything is going so well and it seems to be what is credoed throughout the budgetary process, that it goes so great for the country - and that does, of course, the growth is record-breaking, and material consumption is increasing faster than ever - there are increasing delays between 20 and 25 years. The same misdemeanors are almost without exception those who drop out of high school. 20 pst. does not complete secondary school. Every fourth boy in high school ends. It's a human tragedy. But it is also a challenge for the Norwegian economy when many start with social security so early and remain secure out of life. One teacher as long as one is at hearings in the finance committee, and I have to say we had an interesting hearing with LO's chief economist, Stein Reegård, who chose to sweep away from the revised national budget and say that the government is sitting quietly in the boat--and that's wise--and then presented a report that says that 70-90 pst. of those who drop out of school have some background in child protection, usually from institutions. So we could say find the list of names. This is also an important perspective in the fight against poverty. If we don't do anything active now, we can quickly end up in a situation in a few years' time where almost 80 pst. of us have completed education, higher education, and can live the good life, while the remaining 20 pst. consist mainly of those who dropped out of school and went right over to permanent unpaid pay. It is humanely important and also very profitable to use large resources targeted at this group. Adults choose their lifestyle and lifestyle, but no one chooses their childhood. The left has addressed this challenge by providing the first small allocation in this revised budget. But don't let that be a top score. My point is that we want to pay a lot of attention to this challenge. Here, there is the possibility of targeted efforts, which makes sense for the economy, but above all important for many people. I challenge the Government to participate in such a coup d'état, among other things. in the 2009 budget. There are also other things I want to spend some time on. It may have its backbone in the debate that the Prime Minister has drawn up about a kind of being or not being for the Nordic welfare model. Instead of looking back, as we left-wing people with greater pride than any other party can do on this issue, I think it is important to look ahead: what do we want, and what do we have to do with the welfare community to take care of it in the future? Because we're not just one of the world's best countries to live in, we're also the world's most expensive country to live in, the country with the highest cost to run a welfare society. And these costs are rising, not least in the public sector, faster than ever before as a result of, among other things. an expansive economic policy. This is in the long run a major challenge, which seems to be not adequately addressed by the Government. In the context of the Financial Committee's hearing on the credit notification, the Governor, as we know, is a very mild man in shape, with an unimaginable, at my discretion, vehement criticism of the policy that has been pursued in recent years. The main point was that while we had a strong productivity growth in the 1990s, because we introduced new technology, exposed new areas to the market and open competition and organized ourselves better, this has now stopped altogether. The result is that this government is a threat to the public sector, because the public sector is not allowed to evolve to remain strong and effective. So it's not going to be able to solve the problems it's going to, for the benefit of its citizens, at ever higher costs. The option will quickly become the one-sided privatisation of the right side. I'm afraid of a public sector in the process of stagnating because the counter-reaction can quickly become the right-hand response to privatisation. The left is happy in the public sector. We want a strong public sector. We want to use the public sector. But then it needs to be modernised much faster than it is now, by opening up markets and competition. The truth is that other Nordic countries have gone much further than Norway in reducing the volume of regulation in the product and labour markets, reducing the level of state ownership in industry, reducing barriers to entrepreneurship, simplifying public bureaucracy and reducing barriers to international trade and investment. Norway is the country that has contributed at least in this context, and in the red-green government is the strong and, at my discretion, conservative forces that will further slow down and lead a counter-current policy that will easily lead to stagnation where we need new innovation. You shouldn't be strange to the fortune-teller to see that if we don't do the necessary steps today, we have to increase taxes significantly to maintain the same welfare offer as we do today. The problem is just -- which is well illustrated in several newspapers, not least in today's business Wednesday this week -- that then the tax will be so high that less will work or make the extra effort in the labour market as the country needs. Therefore, the welfare society needs to be modernised and become more cost-effective. I have registered with wonder that Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen spent a lot of time at SV's national government meeting on Monday to characterize Left and Right as parties like "flies out" and who are not honest with people, because we have asked questions about which issues are being pushed out of the climate agreement. The only thing left has pointed out is that if the point of the climate agreement on increased fuel charges is to be pushed forward, the point of increased bet on public transport should also be followed at the same time. We believe that a combination of carrots and whips is the best instrument in environmental and climate policy. This has been followed up by proposals to increase the incentive scheme for public transport in cities by 100 million. NOK 100 million. kr in compensation for increased fuel prices for public companies and increased investments in rail by 150 million. NOK, of which 1/3 will be used directly in the Oslo area. If there is any finance minister that should be characterised as cowardly, there are representatives from the government parties who have arranged to drop the increased fuel taxes proposed by the government. Left hasn't done that. In addition, there is a glimmer of criticism of the Left in environmental policy, while the Government is literally running with full gas for oil activity outside the Lofoten and the West Pole. I record that the Minister of Finance's party trap No Marte Thorkildsen was in Lofoten for a short time ago to build a popular alliance against oil extraction in this area, given the recognition that it is absolutely necessary to create a pressure against the Workers' Party. I take note of the fact that SV's impact in the Government seems to be minimal in the energy and environmental field, so there is a risk that oil exploration in the Lofoten and the Vestral will be carried out too fully, without the necessary impact assessment. Today, Left proposes: ‘The Government requests the immediate effect of the Government to stop all seismic investigations in the vulnerable sea areas of Northland VII and Troms II until all consequences of petroleum activity in these areas have been identified.’ I guess there's a certain danger that SV, as we heard in a reply, is sweeping out and voting against. Otherwise, I would like to sum up briefly by saying that the Left prioritises education, the environment, health, poverty reduction and a targeted industrial policy in its alternative budget. I'll bring this up to the left's suggestion in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e995	The representative Lars Sponheim has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1000	The Left clearly believes that more measures should have been taken to increase access to labour - despite the fact that the Government has implemented a series of measures to get people on the edge of the labour market, to work and to make labour immigration easier. Fortunately, the unemployment rate is now high. It allows people with weak labour market skills to gain a better foothold. The government party, as the representative Sponheim is very aware, has been committed to making a very high effort when it comes to labour market measures. My question to the Left's leader is therefore: how can the Left explain that the party wants to make a bigger cut in the rights of labour market measures? Such an operation will make it even harder to obtain more labour in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1009	Let me first say: the consideration of the revised budget in the committee has shown - with clarity from professionals from different environments - some important things. One is that capacity utilisation in the Norwegian economy is now too high, and it has to go down. Not least, the governor stressed that. It was also said that the wage growth is now so high that it is not sustainable over time. This says that now more needs to be done on the supply side of the labour market. Then we also know - it has also been made clear during the treatment - that there are 100 000 job vacancies in Norway. It is then important that many of those who may be stuck in different schemes today can become available for the same labour market. Then it's also the way that politics is to take priority. The left is giving priority to the very weakest in this budget, with a focus on drug care, rehabilitation and the hospital sector, among others. to correct the bias, in which the representative Sandal has also been involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1018	The experience with fruit and green in high school is good. A better learning environment than the day is reported, and this action has helped to improve the diet of young people. Of course, free fruit and vegetables are most important for those students who have a problematic home situation, and the scheme has proved to be popular both among students and teachers. The left's programme says that you want to introduce a free meal to primary school. Nevertheless, in the context of the revision, we see that the Left wants to remove the system of fruit and vegetables. Don't Sponheim mean that a system of fruit and vegetables is a natural part of such a free school meal, and wouldn't it be a good start to follow up what's in the Left's program?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1025	After a civil past as a lecturer at perhaps the country's foremost fruit growing school, I would like to talk a lot about fruit cultivation, fruit and quality, and the importance of fruit, but politics has taught me that you have to do the important things first, and the Left prioritizes the important things in school. It's about quality in school, and it's not just about having the best teachers. The most important job in this society must be to be a teacher. Then we have to use resources, so that we get the best people to be teachers. So we're going to have to say that for the left, the path is for teachers in the priority queue. That doesn't mean we're against the banana, but that means we're very good for teachers. We're so very much for teachers that we're actually willing to wait a bit of free fruit.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1033	Left, with party leader Lars Sponheim in the head, writes in the setting of St.meld. No 2 at ‘It is primarily the responsibility of the Government to conduct a policy that ensures the lowest possible interest rate and thus the least possible pressure on the exchange rate’. Does the Left believe that the lowest interest rate is more important than work for all, sustainable development and, above all, good welfare schemes? If that is the case, why does the lot itself not be in favour of a significantly tighter budget, which is the assumption if interest rates are to fall to several levels? It's a saying -- freely rendered -- that we're going to live as we preach. The representative Sponheim is a practical man, and someone would say a man of action--at least with the trip across the mountain--so why don't the Left do more yourself, if the world is as you describe it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1045	I became a little bit curious about this line. What the replicator here says is that the option at the lowest interest rate should be higher unemployment or other conditions that you don't want. With that he signals that the government is not so much concerned about keeping the lowest interest rate possible. At my discretion, a government in its fiscal policy, in the context of the economic cycle that is, and within the limits of the economy, must always work at the lowest possible interest rate. I've been worried this spring -- and I've expressed it in this room -- about the fact that I hear more and more, including the Minister of Finance from the government side, start talking about that now we have a normalized interest rate. A government must always work at lower interest rates. There's nothing that re-distributes from poor to rich as much as high interest rates. So I also know as an economist that a level of interest will normalize over time to be a little bit on the plus side of a real interest rate, but that's not what's political. The political thing is to hold back, so that all those who have recently purchased a dwelling, in these days will not be afraid to go to the mailbox - therefore the lowest interest rate possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1052	The reason I asked for a reply was the clear call from Sponheim to stop the seismic shooting outside the Lofoten and the Vestral, and it is well from the fact that this has created considerable resistance from the coastal population in the north. I have two questions. But before I come with them, I just want to note that the Central Party was an active driver of oil activity exposure until 2010, when the Barents Sea Management Plan is being re-examined. Am I mistaken if I say that there was a unanimous growth, with the Left, which said that further knowledge and information was needed until 2010, until the re-examination of the management plan should take place? Is there any disagreement between the Left today? Then I must be allowed to remind you that when the Left sat in government, we had an oil and energy minister, rightly from another party, who was very restrictive in his openness when it came to-- [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1059	The replica shall be up to 1 minute!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1062	- when it came to oil.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1067	Let me say: the management plan has been good for one thing, and that is to put on hold some areas that you could fear could come to early development. The management plan and the thinking around it have one big flaw in the Left's vision, and that's that it operates with green light: expansion now, or yellow light: we get to investigate and wait for new technology. The left will work to ensure that, in addition to that, there will also be red light: some areas will have to be protected permanently for oil and gas activity, just as we have done for a good deal of land in rural areas. If we get through the kind of thinking that I and Left think is necessary, what's in line to get permanent protection -- and then we don't need to know what oil and gas resources might be, it's actually just painful when we're going to have permanent protection in those areas -- are the areas outside the Lofoten and the West Pole, and I'd like to add the areas outside the Dark Coast, how much of the valuable herring our mud. It should be permanently protected, and the oil and gas that may be there should not be taken up, simply. Then there are other areas - also in the north - that should be opened up for oil and gas activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1072	There are several things in Lars Sponheim's posts that I could agree with, but it's at least one thing that's true, and that's that it's a shame -- you can regret it, but that's the way the world is -- that this spring hasn't been marked by, to a large extent at least, discussion about political issues, for example. on the agricultural settlement, on a new, good AFP solution, on a fantastic settlement for the minimum pensioners and other pensioners and also here in the Chamber today on the revised national budget, which is a very important discussion. But we have to take it for what it is. But since we're all alone, I thought that I should challenge Lars Sponheim to think a little loud about how he now--in addition to going on autopilot and characterizing the red-green government--the situation on the bourgeois side evaluates one year and three months before the election. How will the Left Leader characterize the situation? For example, he wants to. could there be any new reflections on their relationship with the Progress Party and the economic policy they have set up? Can Lars Sponheim say something to us, when we're all alone here in the hall today, about how he thinks things should be one year and three months before the election?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1079	Let me first say that the first thing I saw when I came into the main hall today was if the representative Torgeira Mikalsen, whom I have a great sense of, was wearing a dark blue suit. I think that would have been exciting for the political debate ahead, but perhaps not so much for the election campaign we're facing. I have a great sense of Torgeir Mikalsen's policy approaches. Not least, on the government side, he may have understood most of Left's need for red-green tax conversion, and it's a modern thinking. So to the question. I just want to say that what I have said about this both in this Chamber and on other occasions is solid. It's Left's clear view that the Left can cooperate in government with what we think are bourgeois parties, who think long-term in economic issues and environmental and climate issues, and who think it's all right with diversity and that people are a little different - some should look a little weird, and some should have a little dark skin color. We're happy about this. It's civil policy. Then it says quite clearly who we can sit in government with!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1086	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1089	The end of this reply from the representative Sponheim is well to be seen as a government invit to SV, because we have both people who look a little strange, have different skin colors and prices of the diverse Norway. So I strongly protest that bourgeois parties are going to try to take a patent on it. In the debate, the representative Sanner said that I had said in some other contexts that now I was really going to spend the time attacking the Right Party and the Advance Party in the future. He got hurt to take an Erna! Because I understand that Erna now says that the Right Adversaries first caricature the statements that you have made, and then attack the caricature. I have never said that we should spend time primarily discussing the policies of the Right Party and the Progressive Party. But I have said that we need to get up the discussion about the political differences, so that it is possible for the voters to see what the difference is with a still red-green government and a bourgeois majority after the next election. One of the issues raised in this debate, which shows a clear difference, is the issue of fiscal policy. I think it is very strange, and with a very weak background, that several representatives have now been involved in a recent study published by the Statistical Central Bureau, and are taking the results from it to revenue for a dynamic tax policy to work. Because it shows the opposite. It shows that if you spend $8 billion, as an example, on tax bills, you get 20-25 pst. again in increased tax revenue. It doesn't show the context if you had spent $8 billion on anything else. In the debate, there are many from a civil point of view who are tempted to give the impression that because of the tax concessions they have made, we now have NOK 158 billion more in tax revenue. That's wrong. The increase in tax revenue we've been given is due to economic recession and strong growth in the economy, and the best proof that it's due to high economic growth and strong growth is that even the bourgeois parties don't even take any of these crowns and later on, as if it were sustainable growth. In a small ‘news exchange’, the representative Per-Kristian Foss says to Today’s Business yesterday: ‘We have never tried to vulgarize and say that one penny in tax bills, for example, gives one penny and 50 cents back into the treasury.’ That’s what I think you should notice, for this is the only possible way to sum up in relation to the research done by the Statistical Central Bureau. I think it is important and reasonable that the discussion of taxes comes up. A large difference between a civil majority and a still red-green majority will be the continuation of fiscal policy, especially in the case of taxes on wealth, thereby increasing the difference in Norwegian society. The most important thing that has happened in terms of poverty and differences in the last month is not the proposals that are directly promoted in the context of the revised national budget - social security is the most important. We've got a social security settlement ashore, where the Pensioners' Association, the FFO and the others who are involved and negotiate this, are very pleased with a solid profile of the pensioner's and social security settlement. The result is a split layer of government intervention and redistribution among pensioners, which gives unaccompanied minimum pensioners more than NOK 16 000 per year, young people less than DKK 14 000 per year. It is a result that is a very important promise for those who are not helped by the very good times in the labour market, and do not get a job anyway. Unemployment has fallen dramatically, there are 200,000 more at work, and now we have also managed to make a living for those who are at the lowest social security. It is very important in terms of combating poverty. Two words about the environment in the end: we have accelerated the increase in the diesel and petrol tax by 10 and 5 cents respectively, which lies in the climate agreement. On the part of the Government, there are also appropriations for the Oslo Tunnel, which are not for the Oslo people, but for those who commute out and in from Oslo, for national road ferries, and in the context of treatment collective efforts in the counties have also increased. This means much more effort in relation to public transport than the fuel and diesel taxes bring into the cash register. What I think is sympathetic in the debate that has taken place around this is that there are so few of those in particular who criticised the Government for bad climate policy in the past, who have been in the public discussion to explain why fossil fuel cannot be blamed on being cheaper in the future. Environmental policy and climate policy are not just a question of budgeting. It is also a question of using economic instruments to speed up new technologies and conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1108	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1112	In the 2005 election campaign, all of us witnessed the fact that poverty reduction was one of the main causes of poverty. Socialist Left Party. Now the Minister of Finance was in charge of it, but when we stand here today, we can say that little has been done, even though the Minister of Finance is from SV. On the contrary, we see time and time again tax increases, which undoubtedly affect those who have a tight economy. I wonder if the Minister for Finance believes that another increase in, for example, the the food tax and the increase in fuel taxes will not affect those who have poor advice.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1117	After all, it is not possible to set the previous government as a standard in relation to how to combat poverty, because our proposals go far beyond that. It must be seen in the context of a labour market that provides far more jobs, and in the context of a high level of action, which offers greater opportunities for many who have been outside. It's incredibly important. The fact that, in addition, you get a social security bill that gives you so much increase in the lowest social security contributions -- the sum of the redistribution and the extra contributions from the state means that with the lowest social security contributions, they get about DKK 2.5 billion more -- is incredibly important. When a lone minimum pensioner gets NOK 16 000 more in social security, a lone minimum pensioner can also afford to pay NOK 100, which is the average figure that has to be paid out because of the increase in the fuel tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1122	First of all, with tax revenue: the ratio is that the government and the finance minister have refused to answer our questions about how much tax revenue has increased without it having been a consequence of the economic cycle. So if the Council of State's invitation now to talk about this also means that we can get that answer out of the department, we'll meet it. So until what SV regularly deals with also with the Christian People's Party, this with property taxation. The Centre Party has now submitted proposals under its programme to exempt from inheritance tax for family-owned enterprises by generation change, and is also committed to ensuring that there is no wealth tax on working capital. So my question is, is this from the Central Party proposals that are totally unsolidar and unsocial?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1129	First of all, the representative Syversen is well aware of how we make budgets -- there are many others who are not familiar with it -- for example. that we keep the revenues and expenditure that are heavily exposed to the economic cycle, except the calculations, and it is not least that we should avoid cutting in social security and in the expenditure of the state budget when there are bad times. It's important. So this is about the property tax and the inheritance tax. Today's government policy is very clear. We have made significant redistributions of property taxes by the fact that 300 000 now do not pay property taxes, people who paid property taxes when we took over, while we have increased on top. Then we're doing a job with respect to the inheritance fee, to get it set up even more fairly. Now all parties have their programming processes - I respect that the Central Party has it, that the Workers' Party has it, the Christian People's Party probably has it too, and we in the SV have it. This may mean that there may be some different views between the parties, but not worse than that one should be able to negotiate for a good, solidarity arrangement for the next period's government budget, if the voters trust us.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1136	I have a certain understanding that Kristin Halvorsen needs to get out some aggression these days, so we're going to put some of the outcomes in the main installment of that account. There is no doubt that the report presented by the SSB shows that the Workers' Party and the SV are wrong, and that the Right and the other bourgeois parties are right when we have established that the dynamic tax policy is working. In the tax reform setting, the Workers' Party and SV made it clear that they did not believe in dynamic effects. Now the SSB has established that they're there. I want to get one tax return for which SV was previously in favour, and it was to lower the document fee for young people on the housing market. We know that very many young people are struggling to get into the housing market because of high prices and high interest rates. The Right has now proposed to introduce a significant deduction for young people on the housing market. That was the SV earlier for. Is it true that Kristin Halvorsen could think of such a proposal in the budget for 2009?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1145	The representative, Sanner, must first read the Central Statistical Office's report once again, because as I have seen the representative, Mr Sanner, in the public debate, he believes that dynamic tax policy is spending $1 on tax bills, and then you get more. What this report shows is that if you spend $1 on tax bills, in this proposal that we have evaluated, you lose 80 cents, and that's probably hardly the definition of dynamic tax policy, and that's the record of Sanner's position that Per-Kristian Foss thinks is a vulgarization of the debate. Then to the document fee. It is true that it is one of the fees that SV has been busy reducing. It's not in the Soria Moria statement. The dilemma of reducing it in relation to the functioning of the housing market is that the dynamic effect of it can easily be that it is not the purchasers who benefit from a reduced document fee, if any, but the sellers. It is very important at what time, if any, you go in and do something about the document fee.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1152	The Norwegian welfare model is based on the following: Knowledge is power. Knowledge also depends on many and good teachers, and it depends on many and good researchers. We have now come into this situation a number of times in Stortinget that when proposals are made to recruit teachers - and we know all about it, that we lack teachers both in primary and secondary schools - this is systematically voted down. When the government presents a report of quality at school, it is precisely this perspective of the lack of teachers that seems to be lacking, among many other areas. At the same time, we are being informed today that the long-awaited notice of recruitment of Norwegian researchers is deferred and that, at least in the public domain, the expert council cannot say when it comes. What is the reason why such an important area, which is crucial for the development of our society, is being neglected by the Government - i.e. the lack of recruitment of teachers and the lack of recruitment of researchers? Why are the initiatives asked by the Left, both for teachers and researchers?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1159	It's a totally wrong image, a totally wrong claim to say that the government is ignoring this. It's an important challenge. The report on quality in school, which was presented last Friday, addresses just a few of the challenges. We think it's more complex than necessarily just actions to the teachers. We also think it has something to do with the government presenting a plan that understands the challenges in school, which says that we should bet on it, as «Quality in School» says. We're going to make sure that there's more resources at the first class stages, because early learning requires it. Instead of increasing hours of priority, we're increasing teacher resources there. Further training for teachers and principal training is also part of the quality notification at school. I'm sorry I didn't have time to follow up an invitation in Lars Sponheim's posts that are very important in relation to dropouts in school. What we now know about kindergarten and kindergarten provision to ensure that all children get a better basis for knowledge later shows that it is even better than we thought when it comes to the importance of investing in kindergartens. Here we need to have more thoughts in our head at the same time: both to prevent young people dropping out, and to have an effort on the young people who have already had problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1166	So it's not possible to spend money on taxes. That money belongs to the workers. It's only when the council has taken them in, she has this money. They belong to people. It is not possible to spend money on taxes. The government boasts of the low unemployment rate of 1.5 pst. At the same time, we have 700,000 people in this country living from public transfers, and 340,000 live on disability benefits. In the 2008 budget, there is an estimate increase of 9 000. It is clear that if you transfer all those who might have been unemployed, on disability or other types of schemes, it is not very difficult to reduce unemployment. It should be zero, and that's probably the goal of this government. While these figures are increasing in Norway, they are falling in other countries, or rather, our figures are much higher than in comparable countries. Is there an acceptable development? Will this government work to get these numbers down? Is it possible to measure the government in a year or two if it has reduced these figures, or is it acceptable with 700000 living on public transfers?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1175	The representative Tybring-Gjedde is addressing a challenge that I agree with is important. When the largest resource a society has is labour, it is also very important that all those who can contribute to the labour market have an opportunity to do so. But I really disagree with a description that gives the impression that everyone who does is really able to be in full-time work. I believe that the representative Tybring-Gjedde had had major problems with those who the Progress Party calls most people who are insured, if the kind of characteristic hails over the heads of those who are now disqualified. We have a big task to do here, and we have a high pace and pressure on it. This is not least when we look at the high level of labour market measures, despite the low unemployment rate. It is precisely to prevent people from getting into sustainable social security, and on the one hand to give them the opportunity to qualify, to get the chance - that the favourable situation in the labour market offers opportunities for more.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1182	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1186	The Norwegian economy is in very good condition. Economic growth is high, and household income has grown rapidly. It's going well both with mainland Norway and with our offshore activity. One of the main challenges in the Norwegian economy in a situation of strong growth in the economy is to keep the use of petroleum revenues to a proper level. That's what the sitting government is doing. Since 2005, unemployment has dropped by about 50 000 people, and well over 200,000 more people have come into work. There have never been so many employed here in the country. This might be the best proof that a lot is going well here in our country. When more people come to work, more people can live on their own income. Then it becomes less poor, and it is therefore good distribution policy to keep people working. The revised national budget is committed to strengthening the hospital economy by DKK 3.5 billion to cover pension costs. This is necessary to maintain a high level of activity in the hospital sector. More money has never been given to patients in Norwegian hospitals before. At the same time, we know that there are also unresolved challenges in the hospital sector. These are challenges that are not only about money, but also about organisational issues. The revised national budget also strengthens the basic allocation to universities and higher education institutions by about 150 million. kr, which allows higher activity in the higher education sector in the second half of the year. The appropriations for climate and forest projects in developing countries are increased in the revised national budget. The same goes for research and development on renewable energy sources and carbon capture and storage. In addition, public transport: 100 million. kr on national road ferries and on the improvement of the train tunnel under Oslo. The treatment here in Stortinget also increases the allocation of public transport in the counties. Both government and growth are very impatient in climate policy. The basis for the investment in this area is a broad climate agreement here in Stortinget. It's as we know it's just the Progress Party that's outside that deal. Well-being is high on the agenda of the Workers' Party and the other two government parties. So far, the red-green government has strongly strengthened the local economy, it's over 20 billion kroner, and in the municipal structure for 2009, we'll follow up with a further 7 billion kroner in total income growth. The bet on the municipalities provides well-being. Since 2005, we have employed about 11,000 more people in the care sector. That's a priority. So we're in front of the form in an area where a lot of people thought we were promising a lot. We promised 10,000 more employees in the sector before the election. We've already achieved that. Still, not everything is perfect in the care of the elderly, but we're going in the right direction with some long steps. As of next year, we will be able to legislate on the right to babysitting in this country. This is possible because we have had a record expansion of kindergartens, which so far has given 26 000 more children space in kindergarten. The school has been strengthened, including: with several hours. The most recent figures from the school sector show that more teachers have been employed in primary school, in line with policy objectives. We are doing well to fulfill the promises of the government statement. Many more people have come to work, the well-being of the municipalities has been expanded, several thousand children have been accommodated in kindergarten, and the quality of school has been strengthened. During the spring, the government has also made a good agricultural settlement, a good AFP for future and a historic boost for the minimum pensioners, with an increase of over 16 000 for a single minimum pensioner. These are actions and welfare priorities that help turn social development in the right direction, away from a policy where tax relief and privatisation were the top of the agenda, and above all towards a stronger community where work and well-being are the main issues. I have used my post and my speaking time to talk about the results of our policy. I think there should be room for that in a political debate. I hear that the opposition likes to call such articles the moulding lists. Nevertheless, it is my ambition to continue to talk about the results of the policies pursued by the government parties. But I'm stressing that we're not in target. We don't believe that all social relationships are perfect. We still have unsolved tasks, and in next year's state budget, the red-green parties will continue to implement the policy we went to elections, which is enshrined in the Soria Moria Declaration.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1217	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1220	I registered with great interest that it was mentioned in the post of the representative Solberg that a record large expansion of kindergartens had now been made, and that the goals were now being achieved, among other things. a settlement here some years ago - which was also behind the Progress Party - that we should now bet on kindergartens and get to a large-scale expansion. So this has not been possible without the private actors who build kindergartens and run kindergartens. We have a significant feature with private operators and builders in the kindergarten sector. Why don't you use the same rhetoric, why don't you use the same good results here and transfer it to, for example. the treatment of patients in Norwegian hospitals? We have record long waiting lists, we have many who are not being treated, and yet we have a government that refuses to use private as a supplement and as a subsidy to get more treatment - exactly the same rhetoric that has been used to target key social areas such as kindergarten development.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1227	I believe that the representative Leirstein draws a false picture of our policy also in the area of health. In fact, government parties are responsible for a policy where there is also cooperation with private actors in the health sector. But we believe that the main provision in the health sector should be produced by the public. It is a major responsibility to provide the public with a safe and good health service, and therefore it should also be a primary responsibility for the public. But there are many good examples of cooperation, of agreements concluded between the public and private sector, both on the hospital side and not least in the primary health service, where we have private doctors primarily in agreement with the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1232	Today, a number of chronically ill, disabled and rehabilitation organisations have organised a demonstration outside the United Kingdom in relation to the revised national budget. They've done it because this government has spoken. The quotation from one of the posters: ‘... blah, blah... Soria Moria... blah, blah...’ is the answer they feel when it comes to the need for chronically ill, disabled and also ‘normally newly-operative’ to receive a rehabilitation offer in this country. The Labour Party has said that this is important. However, they have not increased the appropriations for rehabilitation other than that covered by the ‘Repatriation back’ project for professionals with rapid operations. For the chroniclers, for those who have problems, they have not increased the appropriations. On the contrary, last night, an institution was probably run by a generous, non-commercial operator in this country. Does the Labour Party's parliamentary leader think this represents values for the welfare society?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1241	There is no doubt that the Workers' Party and the entire government are faced with the fact that rehabilitation work is very important in the Norwegian healthcare system, and there is a lot of good rehabilitation work going on. However, it is also a fact that there is a restructuring of the supply in this sector, which also has an impact on some of the existing private institutions. But I am also quite sure that if the representative Erna Solberg thinks well, she will remember that in the years she was in government, a number of institutions were laid down, because there is always a change in this sector. Today, the policy of rehabilitation is increasingly governed by the fact that rehabilitation is also taking place in health businesses. It's a development that we think is right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1248	I think it will be important in the years to come to shift the attention of the debate on health policy and health businesses to how more tasks can be done outside the specialised hospital, in order to avoid that the most expensive of all types of health care takes place, as it does today, in the hospital, which has grown something very. It's about a rehabilitation, as the representative Erna Solberg brought up, which prevents people from coming back to the hospital -- back and forth -- which is costly. It's not least about upgrading a primary health service that might be able to do more cheaply and better where people live. I think it's important that we gradually get the health debate on these things. It is not a goal to treat as much as possible in hospitals. It is a goal to avoid - as far as possible - treatment in hospitals. But before we can get there, the creation of bias seems to be completely central. Many in Stortinget are engaged, including in the representative Hill-Marta Solberg's own party group, in rectifying this. We've been given a few small clues that the Government in 2009 will correct the bias. Can the representative of Solberg confirm this?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1257	This can be answered very briefly. The answer to that is yes. The responsible State Council in this area recently stated that the Government of the State budget for 2009 will return to dealing with the problem of bias. Misplaced in Norwegian health services is nothing new. We've lived with that for years. It was also a fact at the time the representative Sponheim was in government. Then his government proposed to spend a very long time correcting the bias that was then pointed out. The sitting government quickly seized it, cut the time to fix it, and started working on a new choice that we now see the result of. And it's going to be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1266	The representative of Solberg has stated that the revised national budget is committed to strengthening hospitals’ finances to cover pension costs and that this was necessary. But for the private non-profit institutions, only the 2008 costs were covered. The increase in pension costs for private non-profit institutions in 2007 remains, and for some it is completely unmanageable. These institutions must be given such conditions that they can continue to play a role as an important corrective and complementary to public hospitals. Will the Labour Party representative Hill-Marta Solberg contribute to the government and the government parties looking forward to the new aging process in order to solve what has not yet been resolved? Or does it not matter to this government if several nonprofit institutions are going to end, as we see in these days in the field of drugs and psychiatry here in Oslo? Psychiatric long-term disease is currently being diverted directly from the second-line service to the private housing market because of the winding-up of the institutions in which they are located. They lose their living quarters, and they lose their professional offer overnight. Will the representative look forward to the effusion, so that this does not happen even with the hospitals that are ideal?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1275	It is quite right, as the representative Davøy pointed out, that part of the budget that Stortinget will adopt today, at DKK 3.5 billion, actually goes to private health institutions. Let's be clear. It's not like this is a marked distinction where the public gets all the problems solved, while the private at all are not being helped. That's not the case. A significant part of the 3.5 billion actually goes to private health institutions, and that's important. So the question is, what's going to happen in the ejaculation? I have no intention of predicting anything about today. But what I can assure you is that the red-green parts are very concerned about a number of questions in the area of health. We are absolutely sure that neither the 2008 budget nor the 2008 budget review have solved all the health challenges. There's a lot of people left to grips with. We will maintain a focus on health policy both at the end of the year’s budget and at the 2009 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1283	The parliamentary leader of the Labour Party has done his job today by pointing out everything that is positive. All that the Government has done, etc., is, in her opinion, good. You don't point out things that are missing. It would be thought that all the workers’ payroll representatives were in favour of this wonderfully revised state budget. But that's not the case. We registered in the VG for a short time back that ten employees' representatives were actually very sceptical about the increase in fuel charges that the government is going to go through today. Among other things, in the representative Solberg's own part of the country, there are quite strong reactions to the price increase we are now looking at the pumps. What is the point made by the parliamentary leader that there are so many in his own party who are so sceptical about the policy he intends to go through later today?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1290	First of all, I would like to draw attention to the following: When the representative of Leirstein spoke, it could be said that the cost growth that people face today at the petrol pump has been decided upon in Stortinget. The five-towers and tensile cases to be adopted in the revised budget have still not switched on the petrol pumps. There are completely different reasons that lie behind the strong price increase we've had on fuel, so let's say that. As you can see, the five ear and the tenure are a very small part of what is currently the price growth of fuel. Then it is also a fact that all parties on the Stortinget, with the exception of the Advance Party, have joined this proposal. It had its origins in the climate agreement in Stortinget. Therefore, there is broad agreement on this measure, which is part of a broad climate settlement concluded by all parties, with the exception of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1297	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1300	Everyone's going, was the Workers' Party slogan for the 2005 election campaign. It was a slogan we can all join, because we all belong to the group «all». The question, of course, is how do we get there? The red-green government chose to produce the Soria Moria statement. It says a lot about community and social cohesion. Three years have passed, and not many of the targets have been met. This revised budget does not contribute either in one direction or another and is uninteresting in that respect. The government, not least the district council Halvorsen, boasts much of the Norwegian welfare state. And rightly so: Norway is a country where basic welfare needs are financed from public budgets. All the political parties agree on this. There is no political disagreement about it. In addition, Norway has introduced a large number of financial support schemes. Most of these were meant to be temporary arrangements, which guaranteed people an economic security network in times when they themselves were unable to meet their own economic needs. These too are the broad political consensus. But this government has gone a step further. It went to the elections to eliminate poverty. The idea that poverty can be eliminated through political will and through political decisions was introduced. The government was hesitant that if public transfers increase, even fewer will be involved, as the Prime Minister expressed it in his election campaign. The government also wants to present it as if the forced equality society creates solidarity between people. But is it really possible to afford to a supposedly fairer society? What really happens to the inhabitants of a society that is constantly being proposed new public transfers? Are we missing something valuable on the road? Does society lose any of what we appreciate most? What happens to volunteering? What happens to the spirit of labor? What happens to the helpfulness? Are people more willing to give of their time? Do we care about each other? Do we get a more harmonious society? Unfortunately, the answer to these questions is a resounding no. So the inclusive state obviously has a backside. Yes, it has some very serious side effects. In the world of socialism, there are neither winners nor losers. Socialism does not like differences, and is therefore terrified of competition. Socialism does not value effort and initiative. So socialism detests private solutions. Socialism cultivates mediocrity and detests demands and conditions if they cannot be easily met by all. In practical policy, this means a school sector that struggles to disseminate knowledge to students, but which is very quick to grant students rights. It means a higher education where the professional threshold is lowered, but where the study time increases. It means a health sector with little efficiency and patients' cows. It means a justice sector where crime results in short sentences and penalties. It means a business that has a hard time acquiring skilled labour. It means a large-scale immigration of people attracted by generous and unconditional public financial arrangements. Is there anyone who is sensitive to these developments? For the red-green government, the pursuit of equality is an overall goal, and the government has chosen to equate the concepts of equality and justice. The more like, the more fair-- and quite equal, completely fair. The Soria Moria Declaration is therefore a document with an explicit objective of taking from those who have much, and giving to those who have less. The question of whether the Government is fulfilling the promises of the Soria Moria Declaration is therefore most interesting in a political perspective. However, the more fundamental and philosophical question is whether any fulfilment of the promises contained in the declaration will bring about a fairer society. For what is justice really? I ask as philosopher Ayn Rand does in his book "The Movers of the World": "Who is John Galt?"
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1317	I understand the Minister of Finance's irritation and concern about the calculations that now come from the Central Statistical Agency that show that the dynamic tax policy is working. After all, it kicks the legs off under the rhetoric of the red-green government, namely that tax cuts are a threat to well-being. It turns out that, on the contrary, they are helping to increase the growth of the economy. So it's not between welfare and tax relief. The figures from the SSB show that there are significant dynamic growth effects by reducing taxes. It primarily stimulates more people to work - and someone to work more. It contributes to increased growth, increased purchasing power, which in turn increases the income of the state fund. It's not a either-or, but a both- and, as Right to Boring has said and actually had the support of prominent economists. It is now also supported by the SSB. So the agency says that their calculations are concerned with uncertainty about how much impact there is. But the effects exist. They could be larger, they could be smaller. There may be short-term effects; there are probably significant long-term effects. So tax relief is essentially positive for the total tax input and for society. However, regardless of whether there is uncertainty in these calculations, it is clear that there is less uncertainty in such modelling by recognised methods than it is around the red-green statement that tax relief provides a lower level of well-being. There are no calculations. They must be political in that case. It's pure rhetoric that's now revealed. The Central Statistical Agency has given this statement an ulcer that I think it will be quite difficult to cure. From the election campaign in 2005, the government and the red-green have said that tax relief will be replaced with well-being. Nearly every budget allocation has been full of ritual objections that precisely this appropriation is due to the fact that this government prioritises welfare before tax reliefs. And when you see the formidable total tax income, I think people also realize that this can't be the whole and full truth-- maybe it's the opposite. But now the next defence position from the red-greens seems to be that only those who are out of work, in low-income groups, etc., react to tax cuts by increasing their job offer. It's probably also a little repulsive statement. There is every reason to believe that with an entry point for the top tax today of NOK 420 000, a significant increase in peak tax limits could mean a great deal for how much people in these income groups will work. Growth is not just the number of people at work, it's also the total volume. I would think that many people who now experience that interest rates under Minister of Finance Halvorsen have increased 14 times, i.e. their wages of just over 420 000 kroner, with a top tax, are not sufficient. They'll want to work more, and maybe tax relief will tell them to do just that. Perhaps it is also a virtue of necessity when the interest expenditure and the increases there also apply to the slightly higher income groups. It is not that as soon as people earn a little above the ceiling, they only demand shorter working hours, longer vacations, more leisure time and state-paid well-being in most areas. People also demand the opportunity to handle their own lives financially, take responsibility for their homes, families, and even occasionally find private solutions with choices. In short, modern man is looking for a more diverse life. Then the level of taxation and what remains of your own income are an important premise for which choices you take in relation to your own employment offer. I believe that Minister of Finance Halvorsen's bona fide rejection of the dynamic tax policy here today is a message to all those who stand up every morning in this society and who are engaged in Norwegian social life, as workers, as self-employed, as owners of Norwegian companies who work eight, ten or twelve hours a day to create values for themselves - yes, to their own families, yes, from which they can live, but who also know that society is growing, and where increased tax revenue contributes to the well-being that they are also interested in. The Minister of Finance Halvorsen's message is that she will make every effort to show that their efforts do not matter, and that dynamic fiscal policy is an illusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1338	A few weeks ago, I was visiting the Nord-Trøndelag. Then I was asked to come to the side and talk to one of the negroes of North-Trandian politics - as far as Norwegian policy is concerned - Erik Bartnes, who has also been the county rapporteur. He had the following message to me: You Inge, now things are going so well with the Government that now we have to start sending postcards! Yes, it does. The government is doing so well that now is the time for us to start sending postcards. At least I'm going to contribute to it. First, I'm going to send postcards to the minimum pensioners, who get NOK 16 000 more. Then I'm going to send postcards to agriculture, which gets a fantastic agricultural settlement. I'm going to send postcards to the fishermen who get increased fishing deductions. I'm going to send postcards to the municipalities, which get a good economy and a fair income system. I'm going to send postcards to those who are engaged in higher education and who with this revised budget get a lot more to go with. I'm going to send postcards to the environmental movement and those who are concerned with environmental policy, because we've finally begun to take the climate seriously. There are a number of people who are going to get postcards -- from me at least. And I also hope more people in Norway now start sending postcards, as the former county rapporteur in the Nord-Trøndelag says we have to do. It can actually lead to increased turnover in the Post, actually so much that we can take dividends as well, so it'll be even more to use for well-being. I just want to join in what my good colleague Hill-Marta Solberg said in his post. She insisted that we get a lot in the red-green government. But it's not that we're seaworthy and say that everything is perfect in Norwegian society. There are always problems that stand ahead of us. I can't say that the red-green government delivers at all points, and that we've now reached the final goal -- the perfect one. No, in most areas, first of all, there are new challenges, and then we also have things that we haven't managed to solve in a good enough way. Take, for example: Hospitals. It is one of the difficult challenges we have in the future; no matter who sits and controls, the growth in the need for hospitals is a challenge that we must constantly have a strong focus on. We've given a lot of money. But I think that no matter how much money we give to hospitals, there will always be challenges there and examples that there are people who didn't get enough treatment, examples of people who actually feel that society didn't take good enough care of them. But that means that all the time the goal must be that we have to get ever better -- and we're striving towards it. The representative, Lars Sponheim, was concerned that perhaps there should be another debate here today. Maybe Sponheim has a point there. But I want to go back to a debate we had a few days ago on agricultural policy. It was said by the agricultural spokesperson from the Progress Party, Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, that the Right and Advance Party are like Siamese twins in agricultural policy, and that we almost have to use magnifying glass to find the difference between the Right and the Advance Party in agricultural policy. Then I will challenge the Christian People's Party and the Left, which are among those parties that have always had a beating heart for agriculture, and which have signaled that they can think of ruling together with the Right in the next period - if it is supposed to be a change of government: how will it be to rule with the Right, which is then Siamese twin with the Progress Party in agricultural policy? One of the most important areas of Norwegian society, namely agricultural policy, which means so much to all citizens, can therefore, in the next period, if there is a change of government, be guided by the policy that the Progress Party stands for, and that - according to Kielland Asmyhr - is the same as the Right Policy. One of the things that has actually surprised me most lately is that no one is taking a settlement with it from the two parties that I mentioned here.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1351	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1354	The latest polls must have been a depressing reading for the government parties, not least for SV and the representative Ryan. What does the representative Ryan think is really the result of these depressing polls? Why do people turn their backs on government parties? Didn't the voters understand anything? Are the voters stupid, a little thick in the hat, and don't you understand what the government is doing? Is it perhaps the media's fault, it's the communication from the government parties and out to the voters who have failed, or is it basically the fact that the voters have seen what red-green policy involves - root, chaos and no solutions - and that they simply don't want more of the same mess?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1359	I think we're going to wait for the 2009 election result, and we're going to bring the verdict on the red-green government. If you read a little bit in history books and look a little bit at previous governments, you'll see that there's probably a tendency that people often become in opposition to the sitting government. If you look at the Bondevik II government at the same time, a year before the election, they had a much, much worse upturn than what today's government has. When you came to the election, it was almost so they were able to retain the government power. It was because, I think, it's in the nature of people that you have to be in opposition to what's happening. In this way, one would be critical of such questions. But when the seriousness says it over the minimum pensioners, farmers, fishermen and others who are satisfied with the government, I think you can see that the red-green government has done a lot of good, and then you vote red-green the next time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1366	I understand that the representative Ryan has forgotten to send postcards to the poor and those who need housing support. He should, and then he should apologize that they are not about to end poverty. And then he can also write in the map that the Right for his share has granted 65 million. kr in the revised budget for the poor, and that SV may try to do better. He'll explain that to himself. In connection with the increase in the Equation Fees, under the skin of taxing the rich more, it turns out that very many people who receive housing support, because of the rules of the housing aid scheme, have been adjusted by their Equation Fees by more than 50 pst. during the time they have lived in a normal single dwelling, their housing support is significantly reduced or lost. Does the representative Ryan think that there is a good result of the government’s tax hunt for the ‘rich ones’?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1373	First of all, I would like to invite the representative Fleet to send the postcards by sea, instead of sending them on behalf of the Right. That would be the best thing, I think. When it comes to housing support, I think it is important and relatively accurate. But you'll always find examples of having tax rules that can turn out unfair. It is not that we have a tax system today that sometimes cannot be unreasonable to individuals. I don't know the concrete example of Fleet here, but I'm the first one to agree that we need to keep a critical look at the tax system so that we don't hit those that aren't to be hit by increased taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1381	I assume that we will ensure that we send the postcards ourselves. And then there's going to be a further increase in dividends that we can use for well-being, which Ryan's representative was up to. So to Ryan's challenge about agricultural policy, which I understand he's very concerned about. To that it's just to say that the Christian People's Party has been in two governments, and I don't think he has seen any violent system change in that way, as he imagines if the Right and Advance Party would get a majority. What the two jointly want to do, they get to answer for. My question to Ryan goes on all the postcards he sends to those he believes has had such a wonderful development under the red-green regime. Then I want to ask a little bit more philosophical question. With the amazingly good input of taxes that this government has, and the better economy than ever, what does Ryan think is the reason why the government is so weak in opinion anyway?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1390	First of all, I would like to commend the Christian People's Party for always supporting agricultural policy. They had an excellent Minister of Agriculture, Kåre Gjønnes, and I also had the pleasure of working with people in the Committee during the previous period. I believe that agricultural policy is one of the most important policy areas we have. That is why we need a party to fight for agricultural policy. Not all parties in this room will, but the Christian People's Party has fortunately been among them. We in SV do not have a very bad connection. If we look at it historically, we've been a party that's been around 7 pst. on polls. And we're going to do the same thing. In the last big shot, we got 8.8. I think that as we approach an election campaign and get the results of what we've done, plus that we're also pointing forward to what we're going to do after 2009, it's well possible that we can see a two-digit number again. But SV is traditionally not a large party that has been above 10 pst. We've basically been under 10 pst. in all, most choices. Therefore, our uprising today is not historically low. It's a little bit too low, but we'll get up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1397	That was the first challenge for those who signed the agreement when it came to agricultural policy. I'm going to be so honest to say that I've also been following concerns about developments in the Right Agricultural Policy over the last two years. I have registered that they have now gone over to be opposed to the regime in the agricultural agreement. And they've made a change -- there's something that wasn't there then, for example. Good representatives like Michael Momyr, who is sitting in this room today, attended and went in front. But then we also have experience that the Right, together with the Centre, will provide the necessary concessions for a modern agricultural policy - and not a resting-stock, which today - changes to take care of a lot of agriculture, with love for agriculture. But what I would like to say is this quote from the rapporteur, Mr Bartnes. I know him as a guy with a lot of mood and double humor. And when he says that now it's going so well for the government that now it's about sending postcards, I think there's a lot of sense of humor in the statement that the representative Ryan might not have brought. But I think he's right in one thing: there must be extraordinarily many postcards going well for this government. So good luck with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1404	I am pleased that Sponheim is concerned about Right-wing agricultural policy. They voted, as Sponheim said, against the agricultural agreement. I have to say that I look forward with excitement to clarifying the policy in this area. After all, Sponheim has become a spokesman for and wants further cooperation with the Right and Christian People's Party. He has even appointed who will rule as Prime Minister on behalf of the Right, with whom we are familiar. I am therefore keen to agree on Norwegian agricultural policy in the future. Is it necessary to conclude the agricultural agreements? What kind of agriculture do you want in Norway? With regard to Mr Bartnes' report and the number of postcards, I think Bartnes has a sense of humor. But Bartnes’ intention was enough that it went so well that he felt it was necessary that the Norwegian people not only through the VG and Dagbladet should get a picture of what is happening in Norwegian politics, but from capable community builders like Bartne’s sail and others, who can tell the Norwegian people that now things are going well in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1411	According to the Swedish taxpayers’ association, a primary school teacher has had an average salary increase of NOK 1059 Swedish and, at the same time, reduced the tax by NOK 1221. For example, a nurse has received $791 in an increased salary and $1284 in a reduced tax. In other words, in 2007 and 2008, the tax havens have been more important for the Swedish economy than the wage increases. Is Inge Ryan, in order to avoid large wage increases and possibly strikes in 2009, and to improve the competitiveness of Norwegian enterprises, positive to tax cuts, and will he assess it for most people in the 2009 government budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1418	SV is concerned that we should have a lot of common things. We believe that the highest quality of Norwegian society is that we have a lot of common good that we all get to share in, no matter what background we have. It requires that we have a tax system where people pay a lot of taxes. Me and SV believe that most people can pay more taxes in Norway. But there are a few who earn badly, who are then going to have less tax. We've also done that. Those who have the least pay less tax. We have significantly increased the tax for those who have a lot and who have high incomes. Our future policy will be so that people will pay a lot of taxes in this country, but those who have poor finances will get tax relief. Those with a good economy must accept that the tax is still high.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1425	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1428	There has been a lot of talk about postcards in this debate on the revised budget. I might understand the red-green need to present the glossy picture, that is, of what everyone else really doesn't see. There are great challenges for the red-green parties in explaining to the voters why this government is said to be a success, because the voters haven't discovered it. The voters are asking for solutions to a large number of basic public responsibilities where things fall due, and are running out of time year by year. That's the situation. You're experiencing a society where more and more people are getting more and more private wealth. You always hear about the state wealth and about a government budget that goes by hundreds of billions of dollars in profit. But at the same time you experience a reality where you can't afford to pave the way because prices are rising, where you don't have the opportunity or the will to expand more highways because you supposedly don't want to, and where public buildings are in increasing decay and disintegration. That's the reality that people see. As a result, the gap in confidence in the policy is also increasing, because the goods are not delivered. This is actually a government that is continuing - a government that is more concerned with managing Norway than with delivering in those areas where they actually promised the voters to deliver at the elections. We can take note of that, and in many ways it may be good, because then neither are the major socialist test projects that many of us were very afraid of, given that SV was going to be in government. Much of what has been the main rhetoric -- not least to the Minister of Finance -- has been trying to create the impression that you would get a fantastic tax policy in this country just got a red-green government. It's trying to create the impression that redistribution is happening precisely through higher taxes on the so-called rich. The truth is a pretty different one. The truth is that the first thing Kristin Halvorsen did was give the biggest tax reliefs to those who had a lot from before. That's what the Minister of Finance did. It says a little bit about what kind of tax system we actually have -- a tax system that is far more demanding than it was in the simple rhetoric that we heard throughout the election campaign. It's actually the way that tax is going to go into other people's property, it's going to go into other people's money. Taxes are not generous gifts from politicians to the people. It is essentially a matter of how much tax could be levied to maintain a decent level of welfare in the Norwegian community. But the reality is that every time a red-green politician talks about the need to increase taxes, even more people shake their heads, because all they see is that the surplus on the state budget just gets higher. And if the goal is to further increase the profits by confiscating other people's money, I have big problems understanding it. It is not that one has succeeded in redistributing even if one has increased the taxation of the rich. It is not that more poor people in this society have become less poor because some have been taxed harder. The truth is, there have become more poor in Norwegian society under the red-green government. That's the reality. Then you probably have a lot of excuses as to why it has become like this, but the truth is that poverty is increasing. Then I'll give the government credit for many of the steps you took in social security, because they're reasonable. But one should have done something that was even more reasonable, that is also lifting the remaining minimum pensioners. Because it's not like having a partner or a spouse makes you richer. But they don't have to be lifted, because you've chosen to separate one group of minimum pensioners from the rest. I think that this government should really focus more on delivering the goods and less on rhetoric. Today everyone is going and waiting for the big refurbishment in the government. And that's what the government is going to do, obviously, they're going to refurbish. It might decorate the façade, but the political content doesn't change. Sylvia Brustad, who has been responsible for the Ministry of Health and Welfare since this government joined, has not provided a single area of health policy. The queues are getting longer, the rehabilitation is failing, the problems are getting bigger -- to mention the most important areas. Is there anyone who believes that the Government is going to bet more by changing the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1447	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1450	I tried quite intensively to follow up on what was the message. It must be said that at least in my ears this was a bit in the cabin and weather, and so seen a little difficult to come up with relevant questions to. On the one hand, the Chairman of the Advance Party is disputing the ruling parties that are sitting because they are due in public. Everything almost coincides, Norway is almost about to become a ruin, when we hear the message from the representative, Siv Jensen. On the other hand, the same representative performs to expel the government parties because they are actually committed to funding the public sector through taxes - because we are committed to having a common fund to fund welfare, not least under the government's control. This is mildly out of touch. But what is perhaps the most eye-catching thing today, as it was in the debate on social security last night, is that after the Progress Party has for a long time hammered and hammered the situation of the minimum pensioners, it turns out when the social security settlement was being dealt with, it might not be the most important ones anyway. There were some other pensioners who were even more important. Is it possible to clarify these issues from the representative Jensen?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1459	I don't think the representative Solberg heard very carefully after, because I actually allowed myself to commend the government for lifting up lonely minimum pensioners through the social security settlement. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities agreed with that. But we believe that the other minimum pensioners too should have been lifted. It is consistent, because it has been thought by the Progress Party all the time, it has been proposed by the Progress Party all the time, and it has been voted down by the Progress Party all the time. Then I have not said that Norway is a mess, but I have pointed out the paradox that Norway as a state is getting richer while the public downturn is becoming increasingly visible. It's not going to get past the fact that the public maintenance needs are increasing, and that there are hundreds of billions of dollars we're talking about. The parliamentary leader of the Labour Party would like to minimize that. I think it's much more serious than that, and that means we have to take a power cap. That roof means a powerful and extensive upgrading of existing public building stock. The Progress Party is set to do so. The question is when the Labour Party comes to the same conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1467	I think Siv Jensen should be careful when she claims that she knows the whole and only truth about the reality in Norway, because the question of how many people there are poor in this country is actually a question that Siv Jensen does not have the right knowledge of. So if we look at what we have now done in the social security system - where we have not only raised lonely minimum pensioners, but also raised the young disabled people, with $16,000 and $14,000 respectively - then it's about lifting people out of poverty. In fact, just a few days ago, the Statistical Centre said that 2.3% of the population received social assistance in 2007. This trend has been declining since 1994, but the decline has never been as strong as in 2007. In other words, there have been fewer poor people during our reign. I think Siv Jensen should be so honest that she admits.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1478	The decline in the number of beneficiaries of social assistance is not necessarily a sign that poverty is being combated. What is the situation is that you have to measure this by how many people in our society who are unable to live on their own income, and who need benefits, assistance, from the public in order to be able to master their everyday lives. Those who have a credibility problem in the poverty debate are, of course, SV, who would abolish it with a pen stroke only they got power. So it's been three years since the election, and the number of poor people has increased. I think the credibility of SV is a little rusty--to say so. When it comes to combating poverty, the Progress Party fully agrees that parts of the social security system were good. But we will solve the remaining and quite serious parts of poor Norway, among others. by arresting all drug users and all those who do not have work as alternatives. It's so easy when the government says it's the most important thing. Well, those who don't have it as an alternative need to be able to live on other things, and then the government has to strengthen the performance.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1485	Siv Jensen represents the greatest boldness in the Progress Party. One should be friends with all people, one should give more, the problem is social organization. We now experienced a new golden grain: tax is drawing other people's property. At the same time, it is said that there is increasing private wealth, understood public poverty, with which we, of all, are to do something. The Progress Party says you're going to revise the budget, add NOK 11 billion, have small demands on priorities, don't go through anything casual, but rather live under the slogan you take it, you take it. Everyone knows that everyday life is not like this, either in private life, in business or in public vocabulary. My question is simple: when you in the Progress Party give the impression that one should give to everyone, do you want the government's share of gross domestic product to be higher than the government's policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1496	I think the representative Lundtägen was injured to talk a little bit, because one of the sectors he always criticises the Progress Party for not wanting to give more is the agricultural sector. It's not right what Lundtigen says that the Progress Party will give more to everyone. The Progress Party wants to rationalise Norway where it makes sense. The Progress Party wants to streamline, red tape - yes, reduce the waste of taxpayers’ money where it is fully possible to do so, and where there are other mechanisms that can enter. At the same time, the Progress Party believes that in the entirely elementary welfare tasks that the state and the public have made to solve their responsibilities - health care, care for the elderly, to mention perhaps the two most important, in addition to school - we also see the main challenges. When politicians have held back on the same system, the same governance mechanisms over many decades, and the problem still has not been solved, it is time to start listening more to a progress party that has responded to these challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1503	I'll follow up a little bit of what was in the last row here. The Progress Party, also in the 2008 revision of the national budget, appears to have more to do with everything and to everyone, and that is unproblematic, because there is a source to be tapped. There, the Progress Party distinguishes itself from all other parties on the Stortinget, who believe that in a high economic cycle that is now incredibly important to have good governance of how to spend money in society. The vote will conclude that the Progress Party believes it is wise to spend NOK 11 billion more on a revision of the State budget. The representative, Siv Jensen, has said that she is ready to become prime minister here in the country. Then it is important to know what kind of economic policy should be at the root. It might be interesting to know if $11 billion is a randomly chosen number, whether it's an assessment of what the Progress Party thinks is the resilience of the economy, or where this comes from. Is it so that it was random -- you were going to give a little bit here and there and a little bit here and there again, and then it added up to 11 billion kroner? Is that the recipe for economic policy from the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1510	It must be good for Hill-Marta Solberg to feel like part of politically correct Norway, who is always preaching that we cannot afford to solve the entirely fundamental welfare challenges. I want to remind Hill-Marta Solberg that only in the context of the revision of this budget are we expecting to go with a surplus of NOK 400-500 billion in the Kingdom. That's a lot of money. There's so much money that most people are unable to understand the trifle that characterizes this government, when at a time when gas prices are rising to heaven, they're able to raise their fuel and diesel prices further. It is totally incomprehensible and completely unnecessary. There's room to let people live on their own income. It is not that the economy works best when the state has the greatest possible share of people's wages. It could actually happen that people made wise decisions about the use of their own money, if we let them keep a little bit more of what they're creating, through a little lower taxes - instead of counting that politicians made the wisest decisions on their behalf.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1517	Most people spend most of their lives saving, usually in their own house, and then spend the money they have left, prioritizing between different things. That way, the Progress Party is on the verge of most people, because instead of saving, you say you have to give less priority. A little bit more and more priority is also given to the Progress Party, but less priority is given between different items and tens of billions more to the government budgets. Jan Tore Sanner has guaranteed that it is the economic policy of the Right Party, and not the policy of the Progress Party, which will prevail if there is government cooperation between the Right Party and the Advance Party. He then cancels all the promises, tens of billions of dollars, to the Advance Party. Then there's one of two questions that Siv Jensen has to solve for people. Can Siv Jensen either deprioritise all the promises that will not be fulfilled if Right takes effect, or can Siv Jensen guarantee that it is the Party's distribution policy that will govern if Siv Jensen and Right come into government cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1524	There is no possibility for the right to cancel or change the policy of the Progress Party. It defines the Progress Party itself. We have so much respect for the voters that we want them to be allowed to go to the polls in September next year and put together a new big deal. Then we'll see which of the parties they have most trust in, in relation to what kind of new government this country will get. But I had a sense of the introduction to Heikki Holmås, because he said that most people were saving in their own home and had the ability to prioritise. I fully agree with that. But then there should also be a slightly greater degree of confidence that most people are able to make wise decisions, shape SV's policy -- rather than pursue a socialist policy, where the answer at any time is to demand the most from people and make the most decisions for people. The Progress Party wants to give people the freedom of action back, making it possible for them to prioritize themselves. This is primarily an economic issue, and therefore the Progress Party is in order to reduce taxes and taxes in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1531	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1534	We have to go all the way back to the 1960s to find a period of as strong economic growth as the one we've had in the last four years. Measured as a proportion of the labour force, the unemployment rate is now down to 2.4 pst. That's the lowest level of 20 years. We have reduced unemployment by 50,000 people since the autumn of 2005, and employment has increased by over 200,000 people. That's amazing. We, remembering the late 1980s and early 1990s, when parents and friends lost their jobs, are able to see the results we have in employment today, as a great joy. When one follows the political debate, one can often get the impression that most things are going wrong. It creates a picture of a reality that's wrong, I mean, because most of us feel better than we've ever had. When I say that, it's not in my opinion that there aren't those who have it hurt and hard, or that there's not much that's been undone. But having a job to go to is the most important means of a good life, of freedom and independence. That's the best way to fight poverty. So job no. 1 is to have a high level of employment, so that people can be able to live a good life. But everyone doesn't have it as well, and it's equally important for the government and the red-green to do something about it. Therefore, poverty reduction is an important theme to address for the Government. The government allocates 230 million. kr in municipalities with NAV offices for the 2008 qualification programme, a programme to help reduce poverty, mainly by getting more people out of work. The Programme shall allow persons to get to work through closer and more committed assistance and follow-up. The programme shall consist of labour-oriented measures and may be combined with both medical treatment, training and self-activity supporting the transition of persons to work. It's a poverty response. In Stavanger, a bunch of enthusiastic pedagogues and others, with Eddie Eidsvåg at the head, have made success of something called the Pub project, where the motto is that everyone has resources, and everyone knows what they want. That project has received 20 out of 22 so-called mobs, as they call themselves, in work or in education. For six weeks, these 22 schoolchildren -- some criminals, drug addicts, and others who have fallen outside the ordinary system -- have been on the course. Today, 16 of those young people have come out to work, and the rest of them have got a summer job or have secured school space for the autumn. Only two of them have cut out the project. Eddie Eidsvåg says the most important thing is that these kids find out what they want with their lives, that we give them a chance so that they see that they have infinite resources, and that they are taken care of. They have been. This has been a pioneer project in Stavanger. Now you've seen what's done, and the government and the red-greens are now giving 0.5 million. kr for the project, so that you can get this project across the country. These are things that the representative Sanner and others have talked about that one is not doing anything about. But such a ‘flower’ as this can be found in today’s Norway. It's a true story from reality. It warms the hearts and shows that it works. When you devalue the historical social security settlement that we have now made, I also think it is wrong. When the minimum pension for single pensioners has increased as it has done, and when one has also managed to escalate the supplementary pension for young people, it is historic and is received by both the Pensioners' Association and the organisations of the disabled as something that is – if not sensational – so at least very important. All the minimum pensioners I know, and all the young people with disabilities who have received this promise, have come and said that to them this means a lot in their struggle to survive in everyday life. Free high school textbooks are also marked on a parent’s textbook. It makes you get a bigger economic space. When prices in kindergartens have been greatly reduced, it is also noticed in the family economy. When you give more to the community, as you have done through the local economy, you give more to everyone, and these are important decisions to improve people's lives and to reduce poverty. The government takes poverty reduction seriously. We deliver far from enough, as the representative Ryan said, but we're on the right track, and we're taking it seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1551	The centre-left government opted for strengthening the community's assets, i.e. our welfare systems - a good school, strengthening the care sector and balancing differences. In the period 2005 to 2008, real growth in the municipal sector is estimated to be about 2.7 p.m. per year, or nearly 21 billion kroner. The government will continue this effort. Budgetary policy must balance this development between the desire to solve new tasks while being able to meet the challenges that arise, because we know that, in particular, from 2020 to 2025, the number of older people will increase sharply, leading to a significant increase in expenditure on pensions, and not least on health and care. The centre party wishes to further strengthen the public sector with increased revenues for municipalities and through the new income system. Furthermore, through the social security settlement, the government has taken an important step to lift those who have the least. As time passes, we will also see results of the qualification programme, which means several away from passive receipt of social security to active participation in the labour market. Health is also a major area in the revised national budget. The hospital sector requires considerable resources. The means to cover the increase in pension costs had to be in place and they are in place. The long-term management of pension contributions and costs will be brought back into the State budget for 2009. Predictability of these costs is very important, both for regional health businesses and not least for private non-profit hospitals, which are an important part of our public health system. We're now spending almost 90 billion kroner on our hospitals, a sector that's grown a lot. Now, of course, it is not an objective to increase and increase the consumption of healthcare. The objective must be better health through a strong commitment to prevention, from cradle to grave. Hospitals mostly run repairs. The goal must be to prevent more and repair less. The government, through the revised national budget, has focused on how the specialist health service can best ensure quality by following the national health plan. This means that some tasks need to be centralised, others decentralised. Between 50 and 70 pst. by all patients hospitalised acutely, can be completed at the local hospital. Therefore, local hospitals should organise their activities and competences in view of precisely the large patient groups: the chroniclers and the elderly with complex disorders. I believe that in the future, with a long-term hospital policy that the government is working on, we will see that the local hospitals are built up with enhanced quality. Treating people at the lowest possible level is an objective and important resource use. Then other things need to be centralized, for example. good forms of treatment in cancer surgery, myocardial infarction and stroke. It can't happen anywhere. We need strong political management of the hospital sector. The national health plan should be further developed to be the one where important decisions on the development of the specialist health service are taken, while at the same time being a plan that can provide predictability for the sector. In the Central Party, we are discussing whether a national health plan may not need to be dealt with in budgetary terms, but that it will be dealt with at a different time, and we need to think in the long term about this important sector. Then I would like to make a small comment in connection with the comment in the vote on Trillemarka, which Per Olaf Lundtigen has explained is his own. This note does not have a majority in this Chamber. But when that is said, I would say that there are very few who, with so much commitment, have achieved such good local processes in Trillemarka as Per Olaf Lundtägen and Buskerud Centerparti. He shall have great praise for it, though the government fell upon another solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1569	We are halfway through this great period, and in the context of the treatment of the revised national budget, it is natural to look at the extent to which we reach the goals we set in creating a safer society. We still have big challenges -- let it not rule any doubt about it! At the same time, it is reported from several police districts that there is actually a significant decrease in large parts of the crime scene, for example. in the case of the criterion of profitability. It is good to see that it is possible to reduce some types of crime, both in terms of detecting more crime, slowing down crime and preventing crime. At the same time, we have significant challenges in terms of crime types other than the crime of profit, making it necessary to continue the efforts that the Government is now making, both in relation to the police and in relation to the reaction picture. How are we going to get more of those who get criminal reactions - in prisons or elsewhere - not to commit new acts when the criminal reaction is perpetrated? It is gratifying that during this year we are in the process of building down the settlement queues in Norway - they have been reduced from 3,000 to 800 - that we are in the process of building one of the major investment projects in the area of penal zoning, namely the Halden Prison, which costs over DKK 1 billion, and that in the autumn we are going to start what is the major reform to solve more crime, namely the DNA reform. We're going to spend a lot of money and a lot of human resources on it. It is good - as a unanimous magnification has asked us to do, and as we fully agree on - that we are now establishing measures for children and young people, especially linked to children's homes. Five children's houses will be established during the fall and early next year, and then we'll have a lot more in place than what we actually described in the Soria Moria statement. It shows that the effort you make to create more security for most of us is a bet that also produces results. The fulfilment of the commitments in the justice sector contributes to the creation of a safer society. In this way, I am pleased that today, after all the sun-marks to be judged, you will agree with the strengthening that is also in the revised national budget with regard to the police. In the period in which we live, it is important to do the escalation that has actually been achieved, including: to the police security service, and today's audit will increase by 10 million. kr. It is important to do what you do to the administration of foreigners - in the police, you have to spend a lot of resources, which is necessary, for example. procedure, and not least on the question of sending out people who are not entitled to be here. The $40 million bet. kr is absolutely necessary and also serves as a good relief for a police officer who has more than enough tasks. I would like to say the same thing about the effort that is now being made towards international work. We stand completely powerless if we fail to strengthen international cooperation in combating criminal acts. Many initiatives and efforts of the Government, including: agreeing to the Prüm agreement in the EU is crucial. It will provide us with a great and good basis for resolving more of the internationally branched crime, among other things. access to the DNA bases of other countries. At the same time, I would like to point out that the strengthening we are now doing in the area of border control, through Frontex, and also through the Schengen Information System, where we now have a new generation, is important in such work. It is also the case that the Government is developing and investing in the rescue helicopter service. Under the hood. 455 it is mentioned that the revised budget proposes to strengthen the allocation of 15 million for the rescue helicopter service. kr. In cooperation with the Ministry of Defence, we have made a thorough assessment of other needs and, in order to maintain the level of preparedness of the rescue helicopter service, it is now clear that there is a need to strengthen the allocation further in 2008. The government will come back with proposals to cover additional expenditure as soon as possible. In St. prp. No 1 for 2007-2008, it appears that the Government will establish a rescue helicopter base with a presence guard in Florø. We are now planning the start of this. This work has shown that there is a need for greater structural adjustments than originally foreseen, and this is something I will come back to Stortinget with in an appropriate way, so that the Storing gets guidance both on costs and on the economic and temporal calculations, when this is clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1588	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1591	It is always interesting to hear the capacity of the Minister of Justice to describe reality. It's fascinating. If the ‘Sunlight Minister’ had been a concept, the Minister of Justice would certainly have been able to pronounce such a title. If there is anything the council has the ability to do, it is to be present when all positive things are to be described, and at the same time he has the ability to be absent when the difficult things come up. We just saw it during the fire in Fromland. I registered that the Council of State indirectly believed that the DSB had failed, and the Council of State went down manually per. helicopter to clean up. It says respect. A few days ago, the government councils in Oslo's centre spattered and patrolled. If it was like being taken up to the Police College to get uniform, I'm not going to say anything. But again there was a presence while the sun was shining. That's weird for me. My question to the Council of State is: Is the Council of State comfortable being viewed as a Council of State that is only present when the sun shines, and when everything is good? Is the Council of State in the same way comfortable being referred to as the Minister of Loft Crime in one of the largest newspapers in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1602	Every time I hear the representative Ellingsen protest against the rule of law policy, a number of characteristics are used, especially by me, but also by others. I understand that in the absence of any other arguments, you do. We promise that we will build the reconciliation queue, and we will do it, we promise that we will set up a completely new DNA system, which costs a lot of money, and do it, we will build the prison in Halden, we will do it, we will introduce a whole new kind of housing in Norway from the fall, with electronic monitoring, and do it, we will build children's houses, etc., so I have difficulty in seeing that there is some special hole in the Soria Moria Declaration on Justice Policy that we do not now comply with. This trip to Karl Johan, which I understand both the Progress Party and the Right have had a hard time swallowing, meant that we got 70 new police posts in Oslo police district that day. Isn't that the Right Party and the Advance Party always ask? I must say that there must be a joyous news and an important news, so that we get patrolled the streets and created the security that people are occupied with. I also ask the Progress Party to go into the matter in reality and not just throw around with impeccable characteristics.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1609	The Council of State placed great emphasis on more security and good prevention, but it did not quite draw the conclusion that it also requires a close and present police force. There is no doubt, at present, a great popular and popular commitment to retaining LEN's offices and enough police in the communities. But then it comes to the introduction of new biometric passports, and then it is no longer so necessary and important that it can be done at all the national offices. People are referred to travelling quite far to get a passport in the future. The crew investigation came this week, and there is more than indication that cities need more policemen, and that this will happen at the expense of District Norway. Does the Council of State feel that good prevention and greater security are compatible with emptying the districts of policemen, and is it such that in the future, people in the districts will have to get out of work in order to obtain a passport?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1618	It's the government's ambition that we should actually strengthen the crew in the districts. The personnel analysis that now came, which I hope and believe is also appreciated by the representative of Aspaker, shows that we have an urgent need for more policemen. This applies not only in the districts, but also in the big cities. This is where the failure of the previous government lies. Driving such a low admission to the police high school in the last period means that today we have so few senior police officers. There's only one prescription in relation to that, and that's the prescription in the Soria Moria statement -- and as I promised -- that we're going to have this up to a record level. That's why last year and this year we're raising 432 police students. The previous government wasn't even near that level. If we want more policemen to go to Porsanger or Oslo, we have to train more. With regard to the question of biometric passports, I believe that it should not be issued at each and every member's office. That's not necessary. People have to find themselves in having to travel something to get a passport. People travel to the Drama to cut themselves, and must be able to buy a passport in the Drama too. We're going to have a certain spread in terms of where to issue biometric passports, we're going to have that, but it's not going to happen in every loner's office.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1625	If there are particularly good hairdressers in the Drammen, the council must say from! That's not what I was going to bring up. I'm going to raise another question, and it's about the decay of the crime scene in terms of trafficking that we see is rolled up in the last few days. As far as we understand, both 16-year-old and 17-year-old girls from Nigeria are admitted by the police. That means that criminal offences have been committed against these, because it is illegal to buy sex from people under 18 years of age. We get a general criminalisation of sex purchases every time, and I also understand that the Council of State has turned something upside down in its view. We fully support that. My question is: how does the Council of State view the possibility of further action in the future to prevent Norway from becoming a safe port for this type of trafficking in human beings?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1634	This is a question that I think is particularly important. It is quite right, as the representative points out, that we are seeing a rot. I'm not sure that rotting wasn't there before, but we've been able to get a closer look at it. I have to say that comes as a very happy result of the efforts of the Oslo police district, in particular against the STOP group that signed and others have been eager to establish for a long time. It's good to see that you're going to be in position to see. We have to do two things: we have to have police force to discover and solve these things, and then we must not forget that there are people who are in bottomless social distress, you are dealing with, and who need help for housing, possibly work here in the country, perhaps being allowed to be here any longer, as the government has taken the initiative, or have to travel back to its own country to create a new life there. There are several measures that need to be taken, and it is important that these measures are clear when general criminalisation is also taking place.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1641	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1644	In Norway, waiting times and waiting lists have increased dramatically in the last year. The waiting time has increased by between 10 and 30 pst. in the various health establishments. There have been more than 25 000 queues for health care. At the same time, we know that a number of private and non-profit institutions have significant available capacity and resources. Rehabilitation is a very important area, both in terms of the quality of life of the individual and in terms of a socio-economic perspective. It is therefore completely incomprehensible to the Progress Party that the Government chooses to implement a policy that removes every six rehabilitation beds. This is done from the ideological crusades of the Government against private and non-profit organisations. This is also the case in drug care. Today, more than 4,000 drug addicts are in line for help. At the same time, the government's policy leads to institutions such as Fossanåsen, Vangseter, the Evangelical Centre and the Arch Foundation not being able to use their capacity through agreements with the health companies. Today's regime leads to a class distinction in Norway - one health service for those who can afford to buy out of the public transport system, and one for most people, who have to queue nicely. This is directly unworthy and shameful behaviour towards those in need of treatment. Hospitals have once again been through a year of financial frameworks that have led to redundancies, redundancies, department meetings and increased waiting times and waiting lists. Furthermore, it is a fact that the Government does not fully compensate for health-care enterprises' pension obligations. There's still a $600 million undercoverage. kr for the current year. The Magnussen range makes a serious distribution of inequalities between health businesses visible. This discriminates against patients from a residence address. The misalignment must be corrected by fresh means. The patient offer in Health in the South-East will be weakened by a redistribution while covering a debt draw of SEK 1.5 billion. I would also like to point out the economic problems of Health South-East for the current year. The Progress Party is committed to ensuring adequate resources for regional health businesses, in order to strengthen patient provision. We are therefore disappointed with the government's failure to act and the revised budget. In addition to 50 pst, the Party considers that the necessary fresh funds must be granted. corrected by the bias distribution. That is why the Progress Party proposes a total allocation of SEK 2.1 billion in addition to the Government's proposals, of which 781 million. kr is used to correct the distortion, 600 mill. SEK to cover the pension costs and the other funds are allocated to the regional health establishments according to the allocation system of the Magnussen Committee. Because it takes other things than postcards to fix this, so that we get a good health offer in Norway. Today's regime on functional distributions in specialist health services affects local hospitals. In fact, a number of local hospitals in Norway are being snuffed out. Therefore, an assessment by the Government of what should be the content of a local hospital must be carried out as soon as possible. The Medical Association’s document ‘The Future Role of Local Hospitals’ provides, as the Progress Party sees it, a good description of what the contents of a local hospital should be. It's not necessarily the house that's important, but what it contains of functions and treatment. The government shows little ability and willingness to give Norwegian patients an improved daily life. In the care sector, rehabilitation and hospital economy, there is a wrong path. A government that promises so much and keeps so little will, of course, blame the demands and expectations of the population. But who has created the expectations of the population - besides today's government?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1663	Today's debate is not over, but I still allow myself to try to say a little about how I evaluate what has happened today, and the political situation now a year and a half before the elections. Of course, the debate has had some impact on the fact that other important things are happening in the political environment in Norway, but it does not make the debate on the revised national budget or the political situation here in the main hall any less important for that reason. And I believe that the debate has given us some answers on where political Norway is now. The government continues its Community policy, in which the fiscal policy of the previous government has been cancelled. We spend the big money on the most important things. For example, in the revised national budget, we have committed the pension costs of health enterprises. That's the billion we're talking about, and if they hadn't been awarded, there would have been a huge impact on our health companies and hospitals. With regard to the situation on the policy side of the opposition, I believe that there is a basis for saying that it is more fragmented than ever. Right Jan Tore Sanner, in his speech earlier today, called for a debate on the real political differences, and not on all that we agree on. Yes, I agree. And we're going to try to try to reach that point. But rarely have we been shown more clearly the major political differences that exist between the two parties that they say will form government, after the 2009 elections, as an alternative to today's government, than what we have received during this day and also earlier in ours. Then I am talking about the Right and the Advance Party and the Economic Policy, and about the dramatic differences in reality, and what kind of instruments will be used in that area. In addition to discussing the revised budget here today, I believe that we are now approaching a time when it must be allowed to demand something more than criticism of the current government, namely that one also presents its alternative to the government that rules today. I believe that the red-green policy has been firm. I want to take some examples from the revised national budget, and many have mentioned it before today: these billions of health businesses are a good example. There has been a good effort - historical effort, many say - to get more people to work by maintaining the action areas. That's 225 million. kr more for logging. For my part, I am very pleased that we are going to rust up the Oslo Tunnel, where many of us commuters are running every day. And not least, it's 100 million. to public transport, so that it operates well in Norway, even if many costs go up. What it might have been even more exciting to discuss in a single sentence is the historical social security settlement, with NOK 16 000 more to the minimum pensioners and about. NOK 14 000 more for young people. We have obtained the pension agreement with the AFP scheme, the agricultural settlement, etc. There are many major political issues we should spend time discussing; we should not necessarily spend time on matters of a lesser nature. Everything's not rosy. I believe it is an important thing to say that there are many unresolved tasks in Norway. And I think it's the opposition's both privilege and duty to be the one who points out weaknesses and shortcomings in Norwegian society. But it also has to be allowed, now that it's three months and one year -- a summer vacation and one year -- to demand that they make a more comprehensive approach to what is the alternative to today's government, if you have it. It is also quite unclear whether it is the Progress Party that will have to cancel its TV billions, its billions of promises, in cooperation with the Right in a future government, or whether it is the Right that will almost be forced into the historical liquidation of its own programmes and its own promises in economic policy. There are enormous differences and perceptions of reality between Siv Jensen, when you hear her as the leader of the Advance Party speaking from this pulpit today, and right, when you hear how they speak. I wish, if we were to discuss real political differences in the time to come, and not least in the election campaign next year, that we had a clarification from our real alternative on the bourgeois side of economic policy. I don't think we're going to get it in the debate on the revised national budget today, but I can promise that we're going to ask for this further in the time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1690	In many parts of politics, this government has changed people's lives. A few years ago, a nursery place in my municipality cost NOK 4 700 for one young person. At that time, Minister of State Erna Solberg said: What in the world am I going to do with cheaper kindergarten? In the same municipality you get about three kids for the price of one in kindergarten. Clearly, it has changed people’s lives! It has enabled those who want it to go out to work. This has meant that people have a real freedom of choice and that they are guaranteed a good and proper offer for the young. It also makes it much easier for those who want it, to combine work and having kids. We know that there's something important in family policy, so there's good work distribution in the home. To those of you who are most concerned about taking care of the family -- that's what I'm also concerned about -- I would say that the prerequisite for taking care of traditional family values in our time and combating divorce is a better distribution of work at home. This is how it becomes more harmonious and better for the children. At a time when we have a lot of money, it's very important that we care about the kids who have the hardest. That's why we left behind for a few years for a big change in child protection. State child protection was established during the previous government period in order to provide better provision, better and more sound provision to foster families and better quality assurance of the provision provided by municipalities. They need more professional guidance. That's why we've been busy having good government child protection, and it's taken a lot of resources. When we're rich, it's important to think about the kids who don't have it that easily. Now we also take responsibility for the state child protection in Trondheim. It requires some extra funds, which we are giving in this budget. Yesterday, I saw in practice what the government's policy means to those kids in Norway who may have the most difficult - single, minor asylum seekers. I was on the Skiptvet in Eastfold and saw kids with very special needs. Now, when we build these care centers, these kids get a much better offer than they had a few years ago. They are well taken care of by the community, but there are also a good deal of challenges. Two care centres are built, one in Skiptvet and one in Eidsvoll, and at the Eidsvoll care centre they want to strengthen their cooperation with the school and improve their ability to care for all these kids with many needs. That is why we have proposed to give additional appropriations for this. In the coming years, it is important that we have experience in receiving single minor asylum seekers. Now we've accepted them under 15 years, and next time we're going to accept them under 18 years. Some of these young people have complex and complex problems. Therefore, we need to gain experience from Skiptvet and Eidsvoll in building up a good and sound offer for lone minor asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1701	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1704	First, I would like to congratulate the Council of State on finally getting a new Children's Ombudsman, but that was not what I was going to bring up. We have recently read that there is an alarming need for foster homes, and that children actually have to live for up to one year in temporary homes or shelters before they receive a permanent offer. This has an overall opposition warning against, and it has considered that alternative measures need to be in place before building up existing facilities, i.e. children's homes. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the most vulnerable children do not suffer more than is necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1711	The most important thing we can do is build up good institutions for the kids who need it, and good, strong foster families for those who need it. It's very difficult to place kids in foster homes. They should often be placed near where they come from and foster homes should be motivated to receive the individual child. We have a lot of foster families that are ready. They have undergone a long schooling, but it is not always that everyone with very special needs is in the foster home they are entitled to. I believe that we have a very systematic work going on now to recruit good foster homes, provide them with good training and focus on having professionally strong institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1718	Self-employed women have finally been treated in the same way as other women in relation to some of the rights they need to maintain their business even when they have children. The right has been the initiator and the driver in this case. Now there is a scheme from the Government that is only a partial fulfillment of the Right proposal. Other workers receive full cover in the form of care, care and training, but not self-employed. There is no reason to believe that self-employed women will also have sick children. Founders who come into a difficult situation will lose financially with the government's arrangement if they haven't taken out supplementary insurance, and it's a paradox when you talk about giving more to those who need it the most. My question is, When is the Council of State going to take the initiative to ensure that this vulnerable group of women receives the rights they reasonably require without having to pay special supplementary insurance?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1725	In the previous state budget, the rights of self-employed - not women, but self-employed women and men - were a main focus of this government. Many people have been involved in this group, but it is mainly we who have submitted proposals for changes through the previous state budget, which will lead to quite major changes for those who are self-employed. That is why I am keen that we have now made good changes. The right has been talking about this for many years, but we have supplied it in relation to self-employed people, men and women, with children.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1730	Although the Council of State says that it is this government that has delivered, I cannot be entirely in agreement with it - a small piece on the road, but the previous government was well in progress, and we are waiting for several steps within this field. Governments are talking about cheaper kindergartens. It's very important. But one of the challenges is that although there are many kindergartens, only one of the four municipalities has income-graded parental payments. So when we've got a maximum price in the nursery, which means that the vast majority of parents have received lower parental payments, it's actually the ones with the lowest income that hasn't received it. The Christian People's Party has made proposals of 15 million. kr in the revised national budget. We've made suggestions on this many times. The government has not supported this. Do they want to seize, so that with the lowest incomes, they can be less parental pay than what is? We're also going to make proposals in the next 15 million. kr for the protection of the family. It's summer, sun and romance in the air, but many have challenges. What would the Council of State do to help the many people who want to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1739	Family protection has been given a good deal of work lately, and they are doing a great job. I see that there is a need to focus on what the family's tasks are. We want a dialogue with family protection on that. When it comes to the issue of the prices in kindergartens, it's like they've gone down dramatically. A lot more people have had kindergartens, and there has been a big social change. In the case of income-graded rates, it was before, and still is, a responsibility of the municipality. So it's not like we've kind of strained our legs under the good solutions that the municipality has chosen in relation to income-graded rates. Child protection efforts in many municipalities are precisely about providing free childcare space to the families who are most struggling, because kindergartens are so important for entering socially, as school preparation and as a good care for those young people who need good services.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1746	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1749	Supplementary appropriations and re-priorities show that the Government is taking strong action both nationally and internationally in the field of the environment and energy. Our Prime Minister managed to mark Norway in a very beneficial way at the United Nations Climate Change Summit in Bali in December 2007. He gave two concrete promises that are now being followed up. Norway will make it possible for the next climate summit, held in Copenhagen at the end of 2009, to be successful. The world's environmental situation requires this. Therefore, in preparation for this 2009 summit, four negotiation meetings under the UN Convention will be held. Norway has incurred some expenditure. Thirty million. kr for one of these meetings and has invited Ghana to host such an additional negotiating meeting. This has been highly valued in the international community and has added ‘goodwill’ to Norway. Jens Stoltenberg also presented at the Bali Summit a very comprehensive Norwegian climate effort by promising large Norwegian funds in the international rain forest fund to combat the loss of rain forest. Preventing deforestation and forest degradation is one of the world’s most important climate measures. Norway is preparing to enter into several partnerships, including: together with the United Kingdom in the Congo Basin and in the Amazon in Brazil, both to combat the destruction of the world’s largest rainforest areas. Norway has received a very high level of recognition for this very important kilma work. Carbon capture and storage is a high priority of Norway in the international forums and in international climate negotiations. Some of the climate problems can be addressed through international understanding and commitment to carbon capture and storage from large emission sources. It is therefore very good that the Government is so strongly and focused on the development of clean technologies in Norway. This is widely discussed in the budget. If this is successful, we can make our expertise and developed cleaning equipment available to a whole world. Once I am involved in Norway's international environmental exposure, I would like to express great satisfaction with the work in which Norway participates in clearing up the huge nuclear waste problems in Kola in Russia through our appropriations for this work. This is very important for people and the environment both in our country, in Russia and in our neighbouring country. Examples may be the large nuclear waste storage facility in Andrejevabukta and the ship Lepse, which is fully loaded with nuclear waste at the inlet to Murman port, and further decommissioned nuclear submarines in which the nuclear reactors have not been removed, etc. The budget also provides more money to tackle the unfortunate impact of dangerous chemicals on people and nature. We are now committed to EU chemicals legislation, REACH, and are actively involved in the newly created chemicals agency, ECHA, which manages the follow-up to this legislation. Very good! Questions are raised in the budget about Norway's commitment of money to clean up the nickel plant in Kola, given that nothing has happened to the serious pollution situation. I think we have to look at this for yet another time, because maybe Norwegian money can still inspire the Norilsk-Nikel group to take the responsibility they have for correcting unimaginable environmental and health damage to the population. We are working very hard to produce new renewable energy production. A narrow bottleneck has been used for concessional treatment in Norway’s watercourse and energy directorate. It is therefore very important that the NVE now be given increased resources to help speed up the process and reduce the queue of pending clarifications. Similarly, it is important that the Ministry of Oil and Energy itself strengthens its procedural capacity in the complaint handling of pending cases. This applies, of course, to power development and construction of new power lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1776	The fight against poverty goes like a red-green thread through the government's economic policy. High-ranking people have come to work. The vacancy has been marked back in all the counties and in all the branches. In May, there were less than 37 000 completely unemployed. However, we keep the pressure on labour market measures. Young people, long-term unemployed, immigrants and people with disabilities who are still struggling to fit in with the labour market are entitled to do so. We know that work is the most important tool against poverty. That is why we are continuing to pursue an active labour market policy. Unlike civil policy, the total level is kept at 40 000 places. The reason is that today's labour market gives us a unique opportunity to get people to work. The job opportunities have not been better since the 1960s. Employers look for labour, but qualification is absolutely necessary for many. Jan Tore Sanner said earlier in the debate that the right hand movement is more. That's wrong. Right-hand cutters with 2000 action stations. The number of response sites, as a percentage of the number of unemployed and disabled persons, has increased steadily from 22 pst. in 2004 to 32.1 pst. in 2008. It is this government that pays. In addition, we are now increasing the rate of grants to reintroduction and growth enterprises by 32 million. kr to 3,3 pst. It helps to improve the continuity of the important inclusion work carried out by these companies. So it is that more people in work require closer follow-up of the sick. The Back Back system should become more familiar, follow-up to treatment providers, employers and employees should be improved. So the government is adding 140.4 million. kr in order to prevent exclusion from the labour market. The Qualification Programme is a very important instrument in poverty reduction. The aim of programmes and increased social benefits is to give a chance to those who have so far fallen out of the mainstream, are without social security rights and often on long-term social assistance. NAV is now making an important effort to give the programme a good start. In order to achieve better implementation in all counties, the Working and Welfare Act is strengthened with resources corresponding to one person in each counties. We see that the policy is working. The SSB Social Assistance figures in 2007 confirm that the broad efforts of the Government deliver results. Social assistance is still fewer. In fact, the decline has never been as strong as in 2007. From 2005 to 2006, the decrease was 5 pst., from 2006 to 2007 10 pst. The annual payment for each recipient has gone up to NOK 38 900, an increase of NOK 1000 since 2006. Two out of five recipients have also received social security. With more in work, value creation increases. The fabric saves money, nearly 900 million. kr. This is money that shouldn't go to tax havens. Instead, the money contributed to yesterday's historic social security settlement, with a real social profile. Large counts of minimum pensioners and young disabled people will give most people a social security to live on. Joyful results inspire continued efforts to combat poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1795	The revised national budget is a technical audit in which we do not take political action but adjust for actual changes in the assumptions of the original budget. At the same time, of course, there are a number of considerations when you read what the Norwegian economy is like, whether there is a status quo in the oil nation of Norway, the world's richest country. One of the challenges is: there is a need for labour, as is often the case in oil nations where things are going well. Then I ask, why do we see that it was demonstrated today outside of Stortinget because it is not done enough for rehabilitation, and that the red-green government is not doing enough to get more into work, among other things? Why do we see health cows growing? Why do we see the waiting time increasing? Why is it still crowded in the hospital corridors? Why do we see the hospitals fall due? In 2005, when the red-green government offices took over, the number in the health queue was approx. 208 000 sick. Now it's approx. 233,000 sick -- an increase of 12 pst. The average waiting time has increased from 88 days to 92 days. Every day, on average, there are about 250 patients in the corridors in Norwegian hospitals. During 2007, there were approximately 28 400 patients at a time in a Norwegian hospital, approx. 93 000 patient days a year at a time, in the bathroom, in the living room or in a washing room. Why are corridor Asians an unknown phenomenon in countries we like to compare with? When are the red-green politicians going to get their eyes up and do something about it? For example, should there be a fire in a hospital where several people die because the beds of the corridor patients block escape routes? What are the headlines of the newspaper now? Well, hospitals have to cut budgets, departments are going down, and there's going to be fewer beds. Get it! Get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get Why don't we have the best and most effective hospital in the world? Why aren't we known in the world for this? What are the countries that have managed to build up such a reputation and recognition for having the best doctors, the best medical equipment and where to go if all hope is gone? Well, it's for hospitals in the United States, Switzerland and Israel. Norway? No, Norwegian hospital policy is known for a lack of control, an increase in waiting lists, corridor Asiates and not least for an enormous hospital bureaucracy. That is why the sector needs to be secured with enough money, so that no sick people are empty. We are dealing with the revised national budget today, and we know that there is an urgent need for money. Furthermore, I hope that a real reform will be launched as soon as possible, which will allow the money to follow the patient, so that the user can choose between public hospitals, private and non-profit institutions and hospitals, so that the capacity that is actually in the country, or in our neighbouring country, is actually used.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1814	Throughout all the years I've been running politics, there have been many election campaigns and many hours in order. It provides the basis for many pleasant memories. I've met glowing and enthusiastic people, some have been dissatisfied with the state of things, and many voters have had clear opinions about which of us has the most electoral appeal. I still have the pleasure of meeting an electorate who has asked me with great zeal: Michael, can you tell me a little bit about the budgetary balance and a little bit about the pressure in the economy? Now, once again, the absolute most important thing we do today is to make a decision that will help dampen the pressure in the economy. We agree that if we agree to dampen the pressure on the economy, we will be able to reduce the pressure on interest rates. Maybe that's what matters most, whether we're concerned about our mortgage or we're concerned about the local economy. The right-hand option involves less use of the pension fund, but we have at the same time thoughts and the possibility to propose compensatory measures, including: against rising fuel prices. There's a situation that's now marked for seriousness, especially in District Norway. I receive daily concerns about serious consequences for both companies and individuals in terms of transport costs. In this situation, it seems that the Government has closed eyes and hopes that this will pass. They won't do anything. At least it would have been a good start if the government had shown an understanding of all the concerns about value creation and jobs reported in different places in the country. Revised national budget is an arena where you have a good opportunity to improve things that were done in the budgetary procedure, but I don't see that the government mentions the problems around fuel prices with a single letter. In its proposal for a revised national budget, the right has put in place proposals to improve the situation of large groups hit hard: public transport, fishing fleets and transport-dependent enterprises in rural areas. We're proposing $25 million. kr to immediate measures in public transport, 5 pst. increase in depreciation rates and a significant increase in the special tax deduction for fishermen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1825	In the 2008 budget, the total amount of research appropriations increased by nearly DKK 1.2 billion to a total of DKK 17.8 billion. It's a real growth of 3 pst. In addition, the Research and Innovation Fund has increased by DKK 6 billion from 2007 to 2008 and is now NOK 66 billion. This means strengthening our ability to conduct high-quality research. The creation of the Centres for Advanced Research by the Research Council has strengthened our ability to conduct top-level research, while broad-based research needs to be ensured by increasing the competence of universities, colleges and research institutes. By setting up 350 new scholarship positions in this sector, we have also made sure in this year's budget that the scope is strengthened, while at the same time ensuring recruitment for research. This depends on whether we meet future challenges, be they in the environment, climate, health or other critical areas for the development of our welfare society. It is therefore gratifying that, in the revised budget for 2008, we are further strengthening the university and higher education sectors by 143.1 million. kr in the basic grant. This will allow the sector both to provide students with better opportunities and, in particular, to ensure that institutions are able to follow up on the grants now being awarded from the autumn onwards. Universities and higher education institutions have been very concerned about the return of the basic grant to the 2006 level, so that they can take care of the previously mentioned areas. From the fall of 2008, we introduce five new school hours for the first four years of primary school. It's to strengthen teaching in key basics like reading and mathematics, which are areas where we're concerned about the level among Norwegian students. One out of five leave primary school with too poor skills in reading to be able to work in high school or in the workplace. We know that early efforts are very important in this context. So we're increasing the number of hours now in the harvest in these important basic subjects. In the municipal bill for next year, which was adopted on Tuesday, we decided to set at 430 million. kr in order to finance a municipal obligation to strengthen the teacher's density in precisely these subjects for the same four years that now receives an hourly extension. On an annual basis, the strengthening of the measure will be about. One billion kroner. That means 2,000 new teaching positions in high school. Therefore, it is very disappointing that both the Christian People's Party and the Left take away the extra five hours of elementary school in their alternative revised budget. I see that both parties are very concerned about the quality of school, and that they will strengthen the basics of reading and mathematics. That's why this is so disappointing and almost impossible to understand. I hope the position of these parties will change over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1836	Both education, school and research policies must be given priority first. It's making sure to have enough people. The left also prioritises school money in this revised national budget to recruit teachers - we do not have teachers - to build skills for teachers and to build skills for school leaders. We prioritize it in front of hours, because we know that we can't have hours when we lack teachers. It is totally unintelligible that the current government is increasing its ambitions on behalf of non-existent teachers without making one attempt to provide recruitment measures to ensure adequate teachers, whether it is to strengthen their general status, to have seniority or to make systematic national recruitment plans for both primary and secondary schools. All attempts by the Left and the opposition parties have so far not led to initiatives by the Government. That means that the government wants a lot with the school, but neglects the foundation wall, which is a lot of teachers and good teachers. We see the same thing when we come to research. Today we were informed that the long-term announced notice of research recruitment has been postponed. Let me allow me the following bold analysis from here: The government has fixed up half of the rest cut, which it has paid quite a lot for over well and well a year. Fixing the entire cut costs approx. 300 million. kr on next year's budget, and then it may be difficult for a research minister to get money to recruit for research. But the answer is that in terms of the researchers we need, who need to be recruited, the government chooses to push this forward and postpone. That means that in the areas where the government should be committed, because knowledge is the cornerstone of the Norwegian welfare model -- knowledge gives power -- one neglects the recruitment of teachers and researchers. Let me take a visit to the State Council of Storberget. He's left the hall. He has a particularly graceful trait: to attack me as a representative and former councillor, when I am not present. This council has a special ability to operate with Bolshevik history, i.e. to rewrite the history in such a way that it fits well the present. Since I was living in that past, I know how little active the then big business representative Storberget was in making sure to increase the admission to the police high school. And I know how the increase in the recording happened. It happened under the government of Bondevik II in three of four possible clean fiscal years - from 240 to 290, from 290 to 360, and was held at 360 in the last year, when the government of Stoltenberg, the majority government, took over. Then Storberget has proposed to increase to 432. That's good. So the Left has proposed raising to at least 550, which was voted down by the government parties a few weeks ago here in the main hall. You present a prehistory as if you've committed a sin of omission, but at least it's like this in my head that when you train 360, it's pretty close to 432, which also got a connection here in the hall. You don't grow up to be a politician by trying to make other people small. One becomes great by being proud of one's own deeds and by following the socialist slogan: 'Be proud, but not satisfied'.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1847	Today, we are, in truth, dealing with the revised national budget of the smoking carpet government. Today, on perhaps the most turbulent day of this government ever, the Prime Minister chooses to go to the West to sung in the shine of presenting two road projects, the Jondal Tunnel and the T-connection, instead of being here in the Stortinget. Of course, the head of the injured Center Party, the Minister of Transport, is in charge. The projects are well and good, but they are largely funded by others. They were overripe and should have been promoted for the longest time. The question, however, is this: should not the Prime Minister and the Council of State be present here in Stortinget, in such a unclear situation, to at least answer the Storting to questions on this occasion? No-- instead, a happy-sake setting that you hope will draw away unfortunate attention. On Wednesday we saw another smoking carpet reaction. The Prime Minister travelled to Skien to be present at the opening of the swimming pool - a combined building where primary, secondary and cultural buildings are included. The chin, however, is that the construction was decided by a right-hand rail and a right-hand telemark under the government of Bondevik II. The working party locally was very lunky for the project. The Prime Minister sung in the legal success and also demanded that he be the only one to have the word during this opening. Such is evidence of a desperate prime minister, who is leading a government soon without confidence in the people. 75 pst. of the Norwegian people don't think the government will survive the election. And people aren't stupid. They see that the government does not deliver the goods, but is best on big words. In my sector, transport, there has been total stamina in new reforms and innovation. While the Bondevik II government reformed and modernised the transport sector with Mesta, Avinor, within rail and Post, there is no renewal and modernisation under this government. The success of the Bondevik II Government on the road side, the OPS projects on the South and in Trøndelag are not followed up. For three years we have received the same answer: wait and see - this despite the fact that everyone involved, including the Road Directorate and the Railway Agency, now sees that this is the way to go. Project financing, it is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration - the alternative mantra to OPS. No, said Stoltenberg the following year, we are financing projects. On the roadside, the relative share has fallen below the red-green. And we're getting less money. After the first two financial years, 2006 and 2007, we see that this government is only 90 pst. of the level of compliance of the first two years of the Bondevik II Government. So despite this, there is no more money in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1858	The President would point out that the topic of smoking prevention is to be characterised as an unparliamentary use of language.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1861	I guess we don't need to smoke anything. The actual ratio is that this government and this majority have used approx. $8 billion more on transportation than if we had passed the Bondevik II level from the previous period. And if you look at this year's revised national budget, it's just a big effort on public transport - and it's certainly tolerating the light of day. We in the Labour Party are happy for that. Attractive collective provision is a good in itself in everyday life to people. When more people travel collectively, there will be less traffic, fewer accidents and less emissions. Good collective solutions are an effective tool to achieve many important objectives. And that's good social-democratic policy. One hundred million. kr for the renewal of the Oslo tunnel is important for very many travellers. Improvements shall increase the stability of the densely operated train section in Norway, so that people dare to trust that the train actually takes them to and from work. One hundred million. extra for public transport in counties is also important. Several states have warned to cut the path, but the red-green population is not calm and sees that the collective supply in the county is getting worse. With extra loops, the counties and the many who travel collectively are given a helping hand in order to avoid loopholes and to create new attractive collective offerings. 115 million. kr to strengthen coastal ferries is very important for the many who depend on a day-to-day ferry. In addition to ensuring the route offer, the license also provides room for extra capacity in important connections and increases the discount for those who spend the most money travelling by ferry. Plus all of that, it's going to be about 150 million. kr priority directly to better bus and T-rail services in Oslo and Akershus through Oslopackak 3. The Oslo T-Bahn has 70 million travelers this year. Several departures and subsequently several new wagons will be of great use and joy to many. When I sum up these collective measures, there's a collective effort of 465 million. kr in the revised national budget. It gives me a good chance to conclude that the red-green majority is investing in public transport, and that the Government is keeping the promises of the Soria Moria Declaration of Increase in Public Transport and Railway. Finally, I would like to maintain that our government prioritises research on alternative fuels. Today we're going to allow $5 million. extra kr to promote hydrogen as a fuel in a car. In total, we've increased the licenses for the development of alternative fuels by 67 pst. only say last year. I am happy to be part of a large majority of people who take active responsibility for environmental policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1882	When the county councils get 100 million. kr i revised, an important signal is given that we in the government parties want to meet the county municipalities, since they are responsible for the welfare services, which are very sensitive to the cost growth we are experiencing today. The vast majority of municipalities also appear to want to use this additional allocation for public transport. I think that is good, because there is no doubt that if we are going to make it possible for it to be an alternative to the car as a means of transport to and from work, the option must be there, and the option should preferably be cheaper. Especially for those of us who live in the districts, there is no doubt that collective provision is important to large and small. The fact that many can be required to cut more routes will not be understood, both because there is a broad political consensus to bet on public transport, and because of the fact that reductions in bus routes in most cases are poor environmental policies. Appropriations of 100 million. Therefore, kr may be involved in and prevent the closure of scheduled services throughout the country. For Uppland County, the allocation they receive amounts to approximately 4 million. kr, and it seems that there is agreement to spend the money on public transport in the county. In the last year, the diesel price has increased by around NOK 3, which has resulted in a deficit of SEK 12 million. kr in relation to the budget adopted. However, this allocation to county councils is better than nothing. Even if the 100-million-dollar allocation is made. kr is currently adopted and can be transferred to county councils, there is no doubt that there are still major challenges in view of the increased expenditure in the transport and transport sectors. Not least for those of us who commute to and from work, the tax increases on fuel are becoming a challenge. In view of the next year's government budget, I therefore wish the Ministry of Finance to go through the rates for the commuting deduction. In my own home country, Uppland, there are many who depend on the car as a means of arriving, as not all areas are equally well served by bus. The commuting deduction of NOK 1 and EUR 40 per cent. However, km is small, in relation to the price increase. I therefore hope that the commuting discount will be changed in the future state budget, so that the deduction is more proportionate to the real costs of commuting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1893	Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg has been pompous enough to appoint himself the guarantor of a warm welfare society. Some of the worst in our society, the addicts, experience only a cold shoulder from Stoltenberg and the Government. Representatives of the Salvation Army described this in an article in Dagbladet on 26 May this year: ‘The red-green government has promised to increase quality and capacity in its care. Instead, both the content and the extent are razed.» When the government presented the so-called escalating plan for the drug field last fall, it was accompanied by the second worst budget for drug addicts in ten years. The worst was in 2007. In Health South-East, 20 treatment sites were closed in a private institution last year, and 49 sites were cut this year. At the same time, the waiting time for national drug treatment has increased by 20 days in the last half-year. Restful doors in line, while the government is laying down treatment sites that could give them new opportunities for a restless life. The right has put forward proposals to call upon the Government to stop this closure and to keep the structure of the day until new offers, if any, are established. We have asked the Government to use all the good forces in private offerings to give addicts a new chance for a better life. This is true of the red-green parts. They also vote against the proposal in our alternative budget to grant 25 million. kr as an immediate measure to prevent the raging of the offer to drug addicts in Health South-East. Today started with 40 patient organisations demonstrating outside the Storting under the motto «Soria Moria blah blah blah» because, as they said, they were going to demonstrate how much the Government had done for rehabilitation, namely nothing. In the change of line with Erna Solberg, the representative Hill-Marta Solberg claimed that several rehabilitation institutions had been closed under the Bondevik II regime. I have to ask the representative of Hill-Marta Solberg, during the debate today, to go to the pulpit and read out the names of the rehabilitation institutions that were closed under the Bondevik II regime. These are undocumentable claims from the Workers' Party - but there is nothing new in this debate. There have been 20,000 more in patient cows since this government took over, and the cows are growing most in the Health West area. This is due to both the distribution of bias and the allergy that the Government has against private offers. One now needs to correct the imbalance that results in different health services in the country. So in the Right's alternative budget, we are proposing to increase the appropriation to Health West by 250 million. SEK, the allocation to Health North by 200 million. kr and the allocation to Health Mid-Norway of 261 million. kr. Unfortunately, this does not get a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1915	As we now examine the revised budget, I would like to stress, as the committee's chairman has also pointed out, that this is a revised budget, not a rematch or a new round of the state budget. The State budget is treated once a year, not twice, as the Progress Party tends to add up to, at least they add up to one and a half extra rounds. It reflects the figures presented, where there is an increase in the budget deficit of almost NOK 11 billion - this divided into 4.2 billion in tax relief and 6.7 billion in expenditure increases. Given the already high level of capacity utilisation, the proposed additions to the Progress Party will have been misjudged in terms of stabilisation policy considerations. From our side, we have had a great deal of focus on the fact that it is a revision, and we are going to examine it through the position of the Financial Committee. There are some grips that the Government and the big fraction have done that I'm very pleased with. One concerns the increase in the fishing deduction, from 80 000 to 115 000 kroner, with effect from 1st half of this year. This is a good thing to keep fishermen and not least to recruit for the fishing profession in both northern Norway and other fisheries-dependent parts of the country. Then, in my opinion, there is a necessary tightening of the net pay scheme, where a ceiling is set per person. employed at NOK 198 000. It equals an annual salary of 500 000 kroner. The aim of doing these two acts and seeing them in context is that we should contribute more to equalising the fishing and shipping industries with others in the competition for labour - not least in relation to the offshore fleet. We are concerned about and very concerned about improving the recruitment of fishermen. So I'd like to make it clear that we're still stuck to the net pay system, but that we're slowing down the growth a little bit. Another important measure is to cover the wage and price growth of labour market enterprises, which have increased from 1,1 to 3,3 p.p., with effect from the second half of the year. This is a matter that has been considerable attention around, and that is very well received around the country. I just want to make a visit to the representative Michael Momyr, who said the government is doing nothing to secure the collective offer in view of the rising crude oil price. He said that the right had added $25 million. kr. There's got to be some kind of a misunderstanding, because here it's added 100 million. kr extra for public transport in the counties - this is to help ensure good offers around the whole country. Otherwise, as the representative Torstein Rudihagen has explained, it's over 400 million. to various measures in the field of transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1933	The red-green government has got a lot of criticism for failing higher education and research, and most of the criticism is unfortunately very well-founded. The adventurous growth in the Norwegian economy that this government has had, with an extra NOK 153 billion in tax revenue, has provided an economic space to which few other governments can refer. In spite of this, universities, colleges and research have been the areas that have experienced strong cuts during this government. There has been no bet, and it notices the sector well now. On the right, the government ensured that the quality reform in higher education was fully funded. Today’s government has weakened this full funding, which means that the core of the reform is under attack. The core of the Quality Reform in Higher Education is closer follow-up of students and better education — and it has now become smaller. The government has previously completed a cut of 274 million. kr to universities and colleges. It's a cut that's had quite dramatic consequences around the universities and colleges in the country. The University of Oslo had to cut 205 million. kr. Not only did the cut come into the 2007 budget - the government promised that it would be a so-called rest cut, and that this would be returned to the sector the following year. It didn't happen! The fact that the Government has failed higher education is also confirmed by the Government Parties. In a very interesting interview in the magazine Education, no. 10 for 2008, former Minister of Knowledge Øystein Djupedal says - among other things - that the Government has imposed cuts on the sector, and that he «warn very strongly Kristin Halvorsen that we were going to get criticism and lose tens of thousands of votes in higher education». As we all know, it helps little to warn, it's the practical actions that count. The right has always strongly warned against the cuts that universities and colleges have made, and we have proposed in our alternative budgets to correct the whole gap. What we are proposing in this alternative budget is to correct the part of the cut that the government parties are not finding money to do anything about. It's a little funny that the government expects praise to put patches on the wound they have created, especially when they don't even patch the whole wound. Right-wing believes it is important to build up the Research Fund in order to achieve the objective of 3 pst. GDP is intended for research purposes by 2010. Research is investment for the future. Therefore, the Right proposes to strengthen the Research Fund by DKK 10 billion, which will mean about $30 billion more for research in 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1955	I am proud and pleased that the Government has promised appropriations to protect the rainforest. I am also pleased that the Government has started to identify and support projects that can be implemented and provide us with experience towards the climate negotiations in Copenhagen. Many requests from non-governmental organisations, not least the Rain Forest Fund, but also international organisations and institutions, strongly recommend that we use this money bilaterally to gain experience in the negotiations on the financing of climate action for the Copenhagen climate meeting. We note that it is recommended to support national action plans with – and I would like to stress this – local anchoring. All experience suggests that indigenous peoples and the local population are key to reducing deforestation. The centre party strongly supports this idea and sees that the government is already doing this. Support for Brazil is fully in line with these principles. As I understand it, support for forest conservation in the Congo Basin has some challenges before the local anchoring is in place. I assume the government is working on that. The government has indicated in the revised national budget: international discussions are also under way with a view to establishing a forest investment fund in the World Bank. If this fund becomes operational during 2008 and the fund is set up in a manner consistent with the main objectives of the Government’s climate and forest action, a Norwegian contribution will be applicable. The Central Party notes that, through its formal body G77 in Bonn on 7 June of this year, the developing countries have expressed - I quote, and the translation is my: ‘Any financial contribution made outside the UNFCCC will not be accepted as meeting the obligations of the developed countries under Article 4.3 of the Convention.’;» [[framework of the United Nations Convention on Climate Change]] This comes after the revised national budget has been presented, so the government is so sorry. But from the Central Party we believe that this is a clear signal. The centre party believes that we need to be responsive to reasonable demands from developing countries in order to make progress in climate negotiations. We know that the UN, among others through the Montreal Protocol on Ozone Degrading Substances, have developed highly effective mechanisms for technology and knowledge transfer. I hope we can use the UN as a legitimate organization for our commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1977	Norway is one of the world's best countries to live in -- for most of us. It's easy to say this to us who have it good, who have food on the table, and who don't depend on others for the most necessary things. Fortunately, Norway is not a country of social distress. Poverty is not a very common problem in Norway. But it is a big problem for those who are poor. This is precisely why the Bondevik II government, as the first in Norway, put forward a targeted poverty reduction plan. We got more people working. We gave addicted patients rights, and we provided gradual improvements in housing support. The poor and all of us had reason to believe that the red-green government would put all the cloths to follow this up. But Kristin Halvorsen's abolition of poverty with a pen stroke became, unfortunately, only one blow in the loose air for the poor. Bjarne Håkon Hanssen was going to get people 'up in the moon'. To date, the performance project The Qualification Programme has offered only about 700 people. The government’s allergy to private people helps to weaken the auxiliaries of the addicts, and the improvement in housing support has almost stopped. This is alarming. Yeah, it's actually both fluent and embarrassing that the red-greens, who put so much emphasis on being on the weak teams in the election campaign in 2005, and who today have NOK 153 billion more at their disposal, are unable to do more for the addicts, the homeless and those who need extensive assistance to get out of work. The government's programme statement will be its losers. There are more of the poorest today than when Jens, Kristin and Åslaug came to power and was going to change Norway. In the revised budget, the Right has found room to increase the poverty rate by 200 million. kr. We're expanding the housing support, so that more people can be safe for their homes. We propose to strengthen the training of young social welfare recipients, so that they can turn to the door rather than end up in poverty traps. We propose more money for measures for children and young people, so that they have equal opportunities for development and well-being. We propose to strengthen the appropriations towards addicts, and we propose graduated kindergartens, so that they can afford to have children in kindergarten with least financial resources. None of these proposals will have a majority today. It's sad, because this would have helped a lot of poor people for a better life. The government parties in this room have not even found room to support the Right proposal of 500 000 kroner to the Fattighuset, which drives the distribution of food to the very weakest - 500 000 kroner of a budget of more than 700 billion kroner. It doesn't get the red-green support. Right does not want the state to be everything for everyone, but we want the state to be stronger for those who need help. Can Kristin Halvorsen and Jens Stoltenberg really look people in the eye and say that they did what they could to help the weakest in society?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e1990	The government is taking positive action in the energy and environmental field in the revised national budget. Christian People's Party is among others pleased that large parts of the tax dredge against the hydropower industry introduced into the budget for 2008 are being reversed. We are also pleased that the climate agreement is being followed up in relation to research and development on renewable energy sources and CCS, and that more money is being put into concession treatment in the NVE, although I don't think this is enough money to get away from the queue that is already there. But this is sadly overshadowed by what I would call a belly pad in the really big climate and environmental efforts - the government's own performance projects "the moon landing" and "the rainforest setting". In the 2008 state budget, work on CO2 management was put off at the base of DKK 1 billion — a relatively modest effort to land the moon. The revised budget shows that there is no need for more than 550 million. kr. The government moves approx. 380 million. out of the bet due to a delay in work. For me, this starts to remind me more of a bug landing than a moon landing. At Bali, Minister for the Environment, Erik Solheim, pledged SEK 3 billion for the protection of the rainforest every year for five years ahead and thus believed to have met the opposition's demands in the climate negotiations. The promise was perceived as valid from 2008, and Solheim was nicknamed the rainforest king in VG. Today, we can see that the king has abdicated and that the billion pledge has been postponed to the next great period. Three billion dollars has become 250 million. kr. It is easy to promise money on behalf of future governments. The Christian People's Party is taking several important steps in its alternative budget. In order to reduce emissions from car traffic, the Christian People's Party proposes to increase the one-off charge for cars with a CO2 emission of more than 140 grams per year. Kilometers with 20 pst. This grip could help turn the consumption pattern towards more environmentally friendly lower emission cars and get the most polluting cars out of the market. I encourage the Government to copy this tax change into the 2009 government budget. As far as the 2010 budget is concerned, there is another government to take over, and then we are going to ensure that the copy is kept in that budget as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e2007	This country now has a Minister of Justice who tells the part of the truth that suits him at all times. If we go back to the previous period, no one can deny that education at the Police College was dramatically escalated, nor can anyone indicate anything other than that the then member of the Justice Committee Knut Storberget never suggested a major admission to the Police College. The right is concerned that we should create safe communities for people throughout the country. If we are to do this, we must have a strong police force with confidence in the population. When the Stortinget dealt with the police mission in 2006, there was a cross-political consensus that the immediate police force should be strengthened. Two years later, police preparedness has clearly weakened. More stringent operational budgets, the introduction of new working time regulations, recruitment problems and the absence of an active senior policy have forced the police to restructure, cooperate with guards and priorities that conflict with public and local policy expectations. This is a trend towards larger units, which will create greater distances to the population and to the community. Right will and shall be a driver to prevent the police from moving away from places where people are, and where people are being taken. Lensmann’s offices are service offices that assist citizens in various ways through applications, passports or counselling. The introduction of biometric passports has led to the fact that many offices have been deprived of the task of issuing passports. The Government has proposed that the new equipment be deployed in a limited number of police and officer offices after a specific breakdown. Men around the country fear that a reduction in tasks means a first step on the road towards the closure of the Länsmannskontoret. For the right, this is unacceptable. The scarce police budgets of the Red-Green Government will also coerce aggregation and require many to travel even further in order to receive passports and other necessary services. So the right-hand side is proposing to allocate $70 million. kr more to the police in the revised national budget, of which approximately 20 million. kr shall be a non-recurring investment in order to obtain so-called biometric kiosks for all the national offices. In the 2008 government budget, the Government decided to remove the compensation of NOK 250 per year. day to fellow judges who are not paid by their employers. The right refers to the fact that the co-judgment in Norwegian law has long traditions and is important for the legitimacy of the courts. The work involves a great deal of responsibility, and it is important that the committee of judges represents as good a population as possible. There have long been problems in many municipalities in finding suitable and willing people to do this important job. Right-wing fears that the removal of remuneration means that recruiting people to the co-judgment will be even more difficult. The right will therefore reintroduce the remuneration to the co-judgments and propose to grant $5 million. kr in its alternative to the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e2029	The reason I take a closing comment is an answer that I did not get from Sponheim in a reply chord change. I asked if the Left had changed its position from the day a unanimous increase said yes to more knowledge and more investigations in connection with the next examination of the management plan, because I perceive it so that the Left now says a clear no to seismic shooting outside the Lofoten and the West Pole. I am very much in agreement with the problem itself, but I stick to the decision that the Stortinget made in its time, because I was at a conference at Balstad in Lofoten for approx. Three weeks ago, and a prominent scientist from the Institute of Marine Research said that the knowledge we've given advice from is 30 years old and not good enough. I know that there is knowledge from the research institute at the University of Tromsø, which has just had a breakthrough in the hatching of the cod rod, they've seen and proved how vulnerable rogues are. It clearly tells us that more knowledge is needed, and I am amazed that the Left now realizes that we have enough knowledge and can say no.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e2036	Ten politicians ate dinner together at a restaurant every day. The bill always came to NOK 1000 in total. Since there was a large difference in income and wealth between the ten, they agreed to split the bill according to the tax system that the majority of friends had contributed to. The four poorest people left to pay, the fifth paid 10 kroner, the sixth 30 kroner, the seventh 70 kroner, the eighth 120 kroner, the ninth 180 kroner and the tenth and richest would pay 590 kroner. One day they got a nice surprise. The restaurant owner offered them a discount. They were the best customers in the place, so he offered them a discount of NOK 200 per person. Afternoon. The group would continue to split the bill according to the tax model, so the four poorest would not pay. The question was what was going to happen to the six others. How was the discount to be distributed? 200 kroner divided by six was 33.33 kroner in rejection. That meant that people 5 and 6 would get paid to eat, and that was clearly unfair. The restaurant owner proposed to reduce the bill equally for everyone and to prepare a proposal. This meant that the fifth also got to eat for free, the sixth was to pay 20 kroner, the seventh 50 kroner, the eighth 90 kroner, the ninth 120 kroner, while the richest one reduced the bill from 590 kroner to 520 kroner. Everyone got a lower price, and no one came out worse than before. Outside the restaurant, however, they began to compare what they had saved. - I only saved a dime while he saved $70, said the sixth grader and pointed to the rich tenth grader. Exactly, said the fifth person, who also got 10 kroner in rejection, he's rich, but still got seven times as much discount as I did. Why should the rich always get the most, called the seventh, who got $20 in a discount. And we got nothing, called out the four poorest in choirs. This system exploits the poorest. The mood quickly became so hateful that the nine went into play on the tenth man. The next night, the titheman did not come at dinner, so they ate without him. When the bill arrived, they discovered something even more important: 520 kroner were missing. - A story to reflect, from the imagination of course. The reason I took the floor was that I wanted to give a little greeting to the Council of State, because the Council of State stated in a debate here in the Chamber on Tuesday, and also at a press conference the same day, that she had not heard anyone - not one person - who wanted more progress party policy. In that case, I wonder which environments the Minister of Finance is going in. If she has not met people who want lower taxes, a smaller public sector, greater investment in infrastructure, a greater focus on school learning, stricter penalties for criminals, or who want to reduce non-Western immigration, unfortunately, the Minister of Finance has a very, very narrow circle of friends. My summer advice to the Minister of Finance is that she gets more out of the population most. Good summer!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e2051	The debate on the revised national budget is an important debate. I note that the Minister of Transport clearly has more important things to do than to be here and discuss the transport policy that this Government has put forward. Many representatives are concerned that this is a revision, not a new state budget proposal. Then at least you should have made sure to correct the distortions that have occurred throughout the year. One thing that is clear, at least, is that you had planned to pave the way for 1,800 km, while the asphalt industry's entrepreneurial association says that what you can now do is to pave the way for 1,400 km. So that means you haven't followed up on what you promised in the 2008 state budget. There are 400 km missing, almost the Flekkefjord-Oslo route, which this government has not provided for. But in the revised national budget, there's zero dollars for extra asphalting. At least it's not a good transport bet. It doesn't just help to talk about how much money you've given, you actually have to look at the goal achievement: have you achieved the results you wanted, or have you not done so? In the case of asphalt, there is no doubt that what was promised in the state budget has not been achieved and that this government sold as a good policy: one should now make sure that Norway is asphalted. But it lacks a distance of almost 40 miles in relation to what was promised, and what was sold in connection with the state budget. When discussing and discussing the revised national budget, I would challenge all those representatives who say that this is about correcting imbalances. From yesterday's VG, there's an example of some of the challenges we're facing right now. It says here about the dangerous pathways of death. We know that we have had an increase in the number of fatalities in traffic to now this year on by about 50 pst. Nevertheless, there is zero kroner for new road safety measures on the road sector by this government. Many of those who are about to go out on the roads, who are going on a summer vacation, are going down to Telemark and further on towards Kristiansand and elsewhere, and are going to drive on these roads on which this government has not chosen to prioritise and use a single extra crown, despite the fact that we have had an increase of 50 pst. killed in traffic. If you think it is important to address the challenges that come up over the year and the revised national budget is being presented, you should at least address these two challenges and ensure that you achieve goals, not just talk about money, that you have followed up with heads and ears, but actually follow up: is this what we are doing in line with what we have decided to implement, or is it not? Is it not important to take action to reverse the developments we are now experiencing, both in terms of getting new asphalt and reducing the number of injuries and killings in traffic?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e2068	It is disappointing that the government has not given additional funds in the revision either, until what they themselves say is areas of activity in the health sector. Every day we hear about major deficiencies in the care of the elderly, and there is little evidence that the municipalities are able to develop satisfactory care for the elderly without the use of ear-marked means of escalating. Elder care needs a big boost in all areas, and the Progress Party has therefore granted SEK 1.6 billion specifically for this purpose. The Progress Party also considers it important that drug users receive an offer of treatment tailored to their own needs, and it is with great concern that the Progress Party notes that several good treatment institutions no longer have agreements with health firms. It is not the case that the daily provision in your own municipality replaces a long-term stay in an institution, and it is also important that those who have been treated receive a rehabilitation offer to achieve long-term improvement. Rehabilitation services are important for all patient groups, and the Progress Party has granted 50 million. kr extra for that purpose. The Progress Party also sees that despite the follow-up of the escalation plan, it is cut in the psychiatry offer throughout the country. The Progress Party therefore proposes to increase the effort by 50 million. In addition to the Government's proposals and the budget previously adopted. In order to allow the provision of a waiting guarantee for children and young people under 23 years of age without prejudice to those who are older, earmarked money to strengthen child and youth psychiatry will be a means, including the purchase of places at private institutions. If not, this will affect those who are over 23 years of age. Diabetes needs to be taken seriously. It is estimated that about 260,000 Nordics have diabetes, and about 200,000 have diabetes. 120 000 of these are not aware that they are ill. The Progress Party is concerned about the government's lack of willingness to follow up the diabetes plan. There is little help with a plan if no action is taken, and with regard to this plan, there are few concrete measures that have been taken so far. Every week we can read about the expected increase in the number of people who will have diabetes. When you know how serious this disease can lead to, you can't wait to hope that people will eat healthy and move more. It won't last. A large amount of effort is required from the public that costs. But this is only a small sum compared to the bill and the human suffering that comes in a few years if no action is taken now. The operation of Diaphonene and the blood testing of risk groups to detect diabetes 2 at an early stage must be prioritised. But there is no health gain to discover more people who are ill if those who are discovered are not given prompt and good guidance. The Progress Group believes that several multidisciplinary diabetes teams need to be set up, and targeted prevention measures need to be implemented, not just in terms of fruit and vegetables. The Progress Party believes that the need for earmarked funds to implement measures in the diabetes plan will be 60 million. kr as a full-year effect and therefore proposes to grant SEK 30 million. kr for this purpose. We hope that the other parties will follow us in this area, because this is an important field of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e2085	I just have to grips with the debate that started instead, by Jan Tore Sanner and more with him, on dynamic tax policy. So, right-wing Vice President, Jan Tore Sanner, has all three years gone by and claimed that the choice is not between tax havens and welfare. Jan Tore Sanner's one crown argument has been the following - and now I quote from the debate on 19 December 2006 here in the Chamber: «we have now seen that lower taxes have contributed more money to the community.» [[...]] This is such a statement as Bush senior in his day called 'voodoo economy' that if you lower the tax, you get more money. The Central Statistical Bureau has knocked down Jan Tore Sanner's statement, and is also supported by Høre's former Vice President and Minister of Finance, Per-Kristian Foss, who says to Today's Business yesterday: ‘We have never tried to vulgarize and say that one penny in tax bills gives, for example, one penny and 50 cents in the treasury.’ I don't know if it's just me that there's something strange about, and that thinks these two things are in sharp contrast to each other. Is there going to be more money in the treasury by increasing taxes, or will there not be much less money in the treasury by lowering taxes? Then my question to Jan Tore Sanner, who I've asked to subscribe to, is this: Does he say in his clearly incorrect statements that lower taxes give more money in the treasury, or does he admit that if you lower taxes from the right-hand side - and the right-hand side gets an impact on his tax cuts - there is less money for welfare because you get lower tax revenues, just as Statistics Central Bureau says?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e2117	I've been challenged by the Progress Party and other parties in the last three years to do something for the minimum pensioners, because they're the ones who have the hardest. Every time I say, I agree, we're going to try to do something about that. Now we've done it. I am then quite amazed at the reception this has received from the Right, which neither in comments nor in yesterday's debate was able to clarify whether they would be stuck with the plan of the minimum pension of 2 G. I think they should clarify that. I am even more amazed at the Progress Party, which for many years has considered this to be the most important issue of poverty. But when we get it done with a combination of redistribution between pensioners and a large, supplementary contribution from the Government to raise the benefits for lonely, young and disabled, and get the plan of escrowing to 2 G -- there's a lot of money from the authorities into this settlement -- the Progress Party says no, then it's not the minimum pensioners that are most important anyway. When there is a redistribution element in it, suddenly the promise for the minimum pensioners was not important, and they chose not to vote for the proposal that for the first time in ten years would give an extra boost to those who have the smallest pensions, when they did not get their whole package through. I've noticed that. In that case, the SV and the Advance Party are counterpolar here, because we've been most concerned with them with least retirement. I am so glad that we have now put in place that escalation plan, because this is going to be among the most important poverty promises that have been met. 37 pst. of those who have to have supplementary social assistance over a long period of time, live on the smallest benefits in the population, so this will help. In addition, when we see that the proportion of social beneficiaries is falling, I'm happy about that. In addition, we keep the level of action for labour market measures high. I see in the preamble that several parties, including the Right, cut in the measures and later as if we still have this in two posts - one for ordinary action and one for disabled people. It's not like that. This is one post now, and NAV has been told to take action against those who need action. Those who do not need action shall not have it. So when lots of cuts in the action post, you cut in the help of those who are unemployed and who need follow-up to get to work. This means that some of the poverty packages presented here today are aged with less measures for those who are unemployed. Then, at least in my opinion, the winning goes at least into the spinning. Then I want to say something about another act that the government has done now that is very important, and that is the change in the housing allowance for the most disadvantaged. The housing allowance has now been changed so that you can give up to 40 pst. grants. This means that many of the disadvantaged may be able to obtain a self-contained dwelling, because the share of equity can now be greater than it was before. Then the challenge is to get more money into this system gradually, so that even more people can get a place to live, because it is ‘basic’.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e2132	The representative Samuelsen has asked left-wing questions about seismic activity. He wonders whether we do not want more knowledge on which one can base further policies in this area. The answer to that is yes. That is what we want. When the management plan was discussed in Stortinget, the Left voted for a proposal that there should be petroleum-free areas outside the Lofoten and the West Pole. If that proposal had been adopted, it would not be necessary to proceed with seismic studies in this area. But in addition to giving red light for some areas, we gave yellow light for other areas where a just wanted more knowledge before a definite further disposal. What has been the problem with the government's arrangements is that one has fully financed the seismic studies, but underfunded the other environmental studies. This has been pointed out by the Left in several budgetary settings. One is actually in the situation that one can risk that the environmental burden has not been done well enough before the management plan comes to fruition in 2010. Now when we cut the seismic appropriations, it's because there's been a confrontation with the fisheries and environmental interests of the year's seismic studies. They have been implemented in a way that makes fishermen feel overrun and not taken into account, as they have previously been promised. It is as a consequence that we propose to cut these appropriations, so that one can restore the coexistence that has long existed between the interests of fisheries, oil and the environment, but now suffers from a severe breach of trust. Otherwise, I have registered with satisfaction that the centre party seems to conclude as Left does, that there should be petroleum-free zones around the Lofoten and the West Pole. That's good. The problem of the centre party, if they think so, is that they are now on the road that prepares the ground for petroleum activity around the Lofoten and the West Pole, and that gives cause for concern.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e2145	We have now heard two very frustrated SV posts - from Karin Andersen, who has had to see herself turned off the Right and our poverty package of 200 million. kr over the government, and from Heikki Holmås, who suddenly discovered that he was standing on the ground of the camp, who discovered that the rhetoric that has been built the entire election campaign around 2005 around, the rhetoric that one had hoped to build the election campaign around 2009, it just doesn't hold any goal. I understand that both the Workers' Party and the SV are deeply frustrated when one discovers that the Right is right, and that the SV and the Workers' Party are wrong about the dynamic tax policy. The report we have been presented clearly says that tax revenue is increasing by more than half of the proceeds you have given in tax relief. That's a good news for the Right. We have always been clear that there is a connection between the level of taxation and the provision of employment. When you lower taxes, especially on lower and ordinary incomes, it makes more people want to work more. When it becomes profitable to work, people work more. Especially in the current situation, it would be beneficial to lower taxes on lower and ordinary incomes. In the 2005 election campaign, we were told that the alternative to NOK 23 billion in tax bills, as we had given, was to spend NOK 23 billion on public budgets for other benefits. No - we have now received clear evidence that it is our economic policy, with moderate tax reliefs that contribute to increased labour supply and growth in the economy, and yes, I stand by my message that lower taxes have contributed to higher tax revenues. I have not said that one kr. in tax bills gives NOK 1.50 in increased tax revenue, but lower tax in combination with a responsible economic policy, in combination with focusing on knowledge and research and development, in combination with investing in better infrastructure, in combination with modernisation of the public sector and a structural policy that contributes to increased labour supply, contributes to increasing growth in the economy - it contributes to increased tax revenue to the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e2156	I had hoped that the country's prime minister had been here today. When the country's prime minister is not here, I would have liked to address the country's finance minister, who then represents the government in this debate - if the country's finance minister had listened to the debate now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e2161	I'm here.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e2166	Thank you. One of the most difficult areas for achieving a climate settlement, one of the areas where the opposition has strongly criticised the Government for what it has done, has been the lack of predictability of the framework conditions for investing in renewable energy in Norway. It was one of the 61 essential requirements with which the Government was met when it negotiated with the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left. We believe that it is quite essential that we can solve the challenges climate-related, that we have more renewable energy. The history of this government is staggering between different measures, and it has been primarily achieved that many important renewable projects have been put in the mill bag of those to be expanded, because they do not know what the framework conditions are for that year. Unfortunately, it continues, despite the fact that we have an agreement with the Government that is very clear in these areas, that we should have a system of green certificates with Sweden. If it wasn't ready until 1 July, we would have other alternative schemes that gave the same effect as the green certificates, in order to realize the potential that is. On 23 May, the VG reported that there was no such agreement with green certificates with Sweden, because the Swedes would wait until the next spring, when the EU directive on renewable energy is in place. Then the four party leaders wrote from the opposition in the agreement to the Government and asked for an answer and an explanation here in Stortinget. It has been announced in the past that such an explanation will be made in good time before the Storting goes apart. Two days ago, I had to remind the Prime Minister -- because I realized at the time that it was difficult for Åslaug Haga to meet here -- to clarify what the framework conditions for renewable energy are going to be. The government has chosen not to do so until the Great Government disintegrates. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance to explain these questions to the Stortinget now. This is because the Stortinget does not take place again until the last September. If there are systems for other things, it's a big decision that needs to be made. We now need to know if we are going to float even further in terms of what are the renewable regimes ahead. Should not even more small power plants be realized because you do not know what the framework conditions will be?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e2177	Heikki Holmås has had the word twice, and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e2180	Jan Tore Sanner obviously cannot understand the consequences of the post he just made. Before the election, Jan Tore Sanner and Right promised to have 16 billion dollars in tax bills. Then we said, $16 billion in tax dollars? This is money that we're going to spend on welfare instead. We'd rather be well-being than tax havens. After the election, Jan Tore Sanner has walked around and said: it was not really so that it was welfare or tax relief, because our dynamic, voodoo-economic tax policy had led to all this money coming back. Now he says no, not all of this money will come in again. When comparing the positive effects of tax relief for them with lower incomes, you have to compare it with what it would have been like if you had used them for welfare instead. Then the Central Statistical Agency says: OK, that might have led to that 20-25 pst. of the tax bill had come in again. With our scheme, we spend NOK 12-13 billion more on well-being. It's well-being instead of tax havens.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e2185	What made me take the floor was, of course, the intervention of the representative Karin Andersen. Last night we had a longer debate on social security. We tried several times to explain our suggestions, but it has obviously not been understood by Karin Andersen. When she says that the Progress Party was not involved in raising the minimum pensioners, it is completely wrong. The Progress Party proposed last night was a double proposal as proposed by the Government parties. We proposed that all the country's minimum pensioners should have an increase of 2 G from 1 May this year - not as the government parties suggest, that it is only the lonely who will get it, and that it should go over three years. It's wrong, what Karin Andersen points out here. It's just the lone minimum pensioners and the minimum pensioners who are married to a minimum pensioner who gets it. But all the minimum pensioners who are married to an old-age pensioner who has a low retirement pension will actually get worse out as a couple than two married minimum pensioners -- actually $10,000 less. What kind of poverty reduction is that? Well, there are increasing differences between the minimum pensioners, where the gap between the low and the high rates is even greater - 13,000 kroner. In any case, the Progress Party has a very good conscience in relation to the proposals proposed by the government parties. In addition, we are constantly experiencing more and more festivities on the fight against poverty on the part of the government parties. But what's going on in concrete terms? Not the things of the world. Before the 2005 elections, the Minister of Finance promised to eliminate poverty. What's happened? According to the media, there have been 10,000 more poor people since this government took over. What kind of poverty reduction is that - when poverty increases in what they themselves characterise as the world's richest country? In addition, I record that no world thing is done to help people get back to work through rehabilitation. Why not use the entire rehabilitation facility and allow the private providers with free beds to do rehabilitation? It could have actually brought more thousand people back in a much faster and more efficient way, but here the government is more concerned with principles than of helping people. I think that is also regrettable. For the last half-minute of speaking time, I want to spend on my own country. I just want to note that this government still thinks it's okay that people in Central Norway should pay much more expensive electricity than the rest of the country, by keeping it as a separate price range. So far, they haven't been able to put more power in place. I also record that there is still a desire to discriminate between patients in Central Norway, by not correcting the imbalance in this revised budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e2198	Jan Tore Sanner has spoken twice in the debate, and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e2201	It is probably the representative Heikki Holmås who will not understand the consequences of the SSB report that has been presented. Now we may also disagree on a more ideological level, because I do not agree that there is only one crown used over public budgets that is a well-being crown. In fact, I believe it is possible to build well-being for families and individuals by retaining more of their own income. But now we have evidence that the dynamic tax policy is working. We've been discussing that for years now, and we've been hearing it all the time from the left: Bring proof! Yes, now the State's own body, Statistical Central Bureau, has demonstrated that lower taxes contribute to increased tax revenue. In fact, it is stated that there may be other effects that can further reinforce it, beyond what has been achieved. When we dealt with the tax reform, the Workers' Party and SV rejected the dynamic tax policy completely. I am pleased that the Workers' Party's tax-policy spokespersons now state in today's business that she will not deny that there are dynamic effects of lower taxes. The world's going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e2207	I understand that it upsets the Progress Party when I point out the fact that in yesterday's debate they argued that they could not go for this solution because it was a redistribution. This means that they think it is more important to present a proposal that does not get a majority than to support the proposal that actually gets a majority, and that is cash out to the poorest minimum pensioners now. I think the pensioners notice that. The progress team has never taken the test that they have to give priority to anything. They just divide out at the top, and then it's okay to get something for those who are the most difficult. But the test is whether you can prioritize the disadvantaged when you're going to divide a certain amount of money. And that test passed, of course, the pensioners' organizations and the disabled people's organisations, because they know what this is all about. They've been on the housekeepers before. They have experiences that say it's not a good idea to be just a big spender all the time. They should be very grateful that they have gone ahead and shown the way, that this is possible – and the government has made it possible because they have added a lot of money to the pot. But I'm recording that the Progress Party is sending out reading posts now that are directly wrong, where they claim that this only applies to the lone minimum pensioners - I've read that, it's in my office, from the locals at home. That's wrong. Married minimum pensioners get this increase, and it's also that a minimum pensioner who has a spouse with an additional pension could get a higher pension because the couple together is guaranteed twice the normal rate. So it's a wrong representation the progress part gives. I record that they are more concerned with it than what they have said was most important, that of raising the minimum pensioners and raising the level of the pension scheme to 2 G. We'll get to that. I have to say I'm very happy about that, because that's so right. Because these people need this money the most. And now when we get to it in a combination of a redistribution of money now and a escalating plan up to 2 G in which the government is going to spend money, and the government has also contributed money so that the promise for the young destitutes has become possible, I have to say that we have taken important and great steps in combating poverty. Therefore, it is completely wrong when the Progress Party and others today say that nothing has been done. It's also wrong when you don't register what's happy, namely that there's actually fewer people who need social assistance now than before. So we're going to go behind those numbers, of course, and see what's behind them. But it must be allowed to be a little happy with the things that go in the right direction, and not be so one-sided that you don't get your solution through right now, when you actually when the goals you've said were the most important. Then I still miss a clarification from the Right if they want to be on this agreement with escalating to 2 G in the future. It is not clear in the position we have today, in the debate yesterday or in the debate today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e2214	First to Erna Solberg. I am aware that Erna Solberg has called for how the Government will now follow up on green certificates and with further framework conditions for new renewable energy. But I hope that the representative of Solberg understands that I am not going to present it in a three-minute post in this debate, but that the Government will come back at a later date when the new Minister of Oil and Energy has been appointed, to brief the Right and the rest of the opposition on how we will proceed. What I hope the opposition can enjoy in the meantime is that one thing that has been a lot of attention around, namely what should be the framework conditions for small power, has been clarified in the context of the revised national budget and significantly improved and received enthusiasm from all those who have had small and large projects at the planning stage. And we expect it to contribute to parts of the ambitious goals we have in terms of new renewable energy. Then to the discussion about the dynamic tax policy. I think the representative Sanner owes the Stortinget to clarify whether he stands on the definition he used to have of dynamic tax policy, namely that one penny in tax bills would give more than one penny back. That's what Per-Kristian Foss in Today's Business yesterday calls a vulgarization of the debate. But that's how it's used as a political point. And the central statistical agency's analysis on this issue shows that there are, of course, some dynamic effects related to fiscal policy, but a dynamic tax policy in the understanding that Jan Tore Sanner has previously given, there is no basis for this. That means one penny in tax dollars is 80 cents lost. And we're not talking about a dynamic spending policy. It is very easy to find dynamic effects of strengthening the local economy, or on the provision of work, for example. to remove the cash support and provide tax credits for low wages. We know that it has dynamic effects to provide tax incentives for low pay compared to the labour supply. But this very simplified view of fiscal policy cannot be repeated with evidence from the Statistical Central Bureau. Then to the poverty debate. I believe that a government that respects itself and is concerned with fair distribution must have the aim of eliminating poverty. We have. I can't imagine any formulation that would be less than that. We're working on it all the time. We have drag help from a good labour market. We use it to get more people to work. We have a social security bill that in total involves approx. 2.5 billion kroner -- maybe even a little bit more -- in strengthening the lowest social security. It is a very large and important redistribution. And there are many definitions of what is poverty. One definition is how many people receive social assistance, and there we have a decrease of 10 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e2225	It was good that this debate got a little tightened up at the end of the day today. First, to the tax debate. I think it's a little on the limit of the well-kept when the representative Holmås runs out as he does. If one does not want to use the SSB report, it is only to base the simple fact that this government has locked itself to hold on to the level of taxation of the Bondevik II government in 2004. I think it was a kind of certainty from the Prime Minister that others in the Government and Holmås didn't run completely wild with the tax level, they were locked to what was the Bondevik government's tax level after several years of tax. It was a level that created dynamism in the economy. The level at which the current government also maintains has given adventurous new tax revenues, significantly more than that given in tax reliefs in the previous period. Then we can have a difficult debate on where these increased tax revenues come from. However, it cannot be excluded - it cannot be ruled out - that a tax relief in the previous period, such as the 2004 tax level established and to which this government was bound, has created a type of dynamic in which several enterprises, several bringing funds to taxation, more who offer their labour and earn wages for taxation, etc., have contributed to the massive increase in tax revenues, and thus to a higher level of well-being. No one has the ability to document or refer to. So to what was the main reason to take the word now. It concerns the climate agreement, and the willingness and ability to stand firm in that climate agreement. The three opposition parties that are part of the climate deal have accepted that the government chose - one might say - to break, at least foreshadow elements of the climate deal because you might need money now, or in other ways to balance the revised national budget. We'll vote for it in a few minutes, because we want to be clear that we're stuck with the climate agreement. Then it's important that we believe, when the Storting splits up today, that the Government also stands firm on the climate agreement. A very central point was that by 1 July we must have been told whether there will be green certificates, and, if not - and everything indicates that the latter will be the situation - we must be presented with the alternatives that we are going to have, which will create the same impact on renewable energy. We haven't got that. It makes some of us feel that the government is failing their commitments in the climate agreement. Then the Minister of Finance asks for understanding that the Government has problems. Yes, we understand that the Government has problems, and they are so big that important political work and progress in the country now seem to stop. I'm willing to show understanding and be patient for a few more days, but there's no reason for the work on renewable energy to stop. Therefore, there is reason to believe and hope that the Government will quickly meet its commitments to the climate settlement partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e2240	Let me first answer what Karin Andersen has brought up, which I'm actually a little surprised at is going to be a big deal. Every year, the right has had the policy of voting in favour of the pension settlement arrangements negotiated by any government with the parties. We've done that, and we're going to go back to it again. We have not pursued over-the-counter policies, we have not pursued under-the-counter policies, we have stood for what has been negotiated. So the previous government negotiated a significantly better settlement also for the minimum pensioners in the pension settlement than had been done the three years before the previous government joined. Therefore, there is no need to speculate, even though I sometimes have to say that I am recording what is the Government's tactics for the moment. It is increasing expectations of what will be included in the budget in 2010, the budget for which they themselves will not be responsible. There is a three-four new grip in 14 days or three weeks after the big shot, when all the main sums of payouts are due - and thus managed by the government that had to come. Maybe it would have been a little bit more interesting to see that you were able to prioritize within the means you had per. the date of issue. So to the question of the climate agreement. I have to say that I understand that there may be challenges in a government if everything is based on the fact that a single government council is the only one working on climate issues. But I have made a climate settlement with three parties on the Stortinget, with the Prime Minister as involved. The fact that when one of the most important demands starts to be addressed, then depends on a government council not having other problems, and that when a government council gets into trouble, there are no mechanisms in this government that raise the most important issues and ensure that the rest of the country goes on, surprises me. That's what happened in this case, because it's been four weeks since we asked for that statement. Then the country's prime minister should have made sure that Stortinget got that statement, regardless of the brewers and other things that had to be found on the way. Then it should have been possible to put a message back to Stortinget, regardless of the kind of trouble we have seen for the Government lately. Then, of course, we are pleased that the Government has reversed its own constraints on small power plants, that it has done what we have proposed in several budgets, namely to increase - although it is not good enough - the treatment capacity of the NVE. But it still doesn't hold, because what we have an agreement on is that we have to have comparable terms, as good terms as it is in the Swedish green certificate market for new renewable energy. We don't have that per cent. the current date and requires new decisions here. It probably requires ESA approval. It's a long run right over here. Then the government should have more pressure and more cooperation with Stortinget. If this is defined as the greatest challenge of our time, we must have more speed than three years with wings on the framework conditions for renewable energy, which the Government has so far had.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e2253	If from my own experience I'm going to be allowed to give a little, friendly advice to those who are now touring high on polls, it's not to take any election holidays in advance. I have experienced many election matches where SV one year and a half before the election round - we were even Norway's largest party. And what's incredibly tiring, is going into a campaign of lying high and having the arrow pointing down all the way. What's kind of fun, on the other hand, is getting into a campaign with pretty bad measurements and fighting and angry people to stand on and get what's different in politics. That's what bad polls do with the red-green government parties, and with our people out there. If we could then continue to get into the debate what are the actual differences in policy, this can be quite clarifying also for the voters out there. The discussion about the dynamic tax policy I have to say that I look forward to taking on all the crossroads, because there's only one popular way to perceive what the right side has said about this, on, and that's that if you give out heads in tax laws, it's going to breed in that way that you get back more than what you gave. And there's no clues for that. The representative Sponheim knows perfectly well, when the opposition is around talking about NOK 158 billion -- it's been here in the debate -- that these are tax revenues that they themselves can use, that none of them will propose to use them, because they know that it's a high economic cycle that we're going to enjoy while it's going to last, but that's also going to pose challenges at some point in time. So to the question of climate -- working with the climate and the climate deal. There are no single-country councils working with, among other things. the Minister for Finance has a very great responsibility. I am responsible for sustainable development. Climate is part of it. Many important steps on green tax exchange have been taken in the period, and we can become even better in the future. And in all the most important departments dealing with climate, there is now much more systematic work than what has ever been done in this area. But with regard to the individual questions that lie directly below another state council, I would just like to inform you that the government will come back as soon as possible with an information to the opposition on how the situation around the green certificates is now being followed up by our side. We take the climate deal seriously, we think it's important to follow it up, and we all have intentions to keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e2264	To the Council of State and her friendly advice on opinion polls: in fact, most voters and people in this country have discovered the difference between this government's policy and other governments' policies, and that that's why the polls are what they are. What made me take the floor was what I heard Karin Andersen say when I sat in the office. Then I thought my ears would fall off. And when I came down here and heard that she had taken the word again and had confirmed what I heard up, I had to make an expression that says that you should hear a lot - and so I heard it. When the representative manages to say that the Progress Party voted against the increase in minimum pensions, there is little to be done. The Progress Party presented a proposal that was far better for all minimum pensioners, a proposal that would give an increase from 1 May this year, while SV will push it three years ahead in time. And then Karin Andersen says that they've learned to prioritise, it doesn't have the Advance Party. What SV is now doing in government is prioritizing between a rich state that plays Uncle Screw, and pensioners who can't afford it. Because what's actually going on in the redistribution that's so nice to talk about is taking from the lonely pensioners who have a little bit more than the minimum pension and make 140,000 dollars a year, and giving to those who make 120,000 dollars. It's taking from those who have little, to give to those who have a little bit less, instead of taking from a search warrant state and really giving a contribution to everyone. If the SV's proposal on re-priority and prioritisation is to turn this off, I hope we never end up in that division. Then to poverty. The Council of State says they have the aim of fighting poverty. Yeah, it's new tones. Before the last option, it was to be removed with a pen stroke. I think it's actually the way that poor people in this country, who have become 10,000 more, might think they're best served with the SV leaving the government, or perhaps the very best: that the government is going off.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e2276	Karin Andersen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e2279	I understand that it is very upsetting to the Progress Party that SV has got to what the Progress Party has fought for a long time. I think it is very strange that the Progress Party is not happy that we are now getting to what the Progress Party also seems to have been important. But I recorded in yesterday's debate that there was no agreement on the proposal that existed from the Government and that was negotiated with the parties that agreed on the redistribution, because the minimum pensioners could not be lifted if there was a redistribution in it. I'm just recording it. It's a fact. That's it. And SV is dedicated to getting a majority of their proposals. We've got it. We are happy about it, and we have got it in an area where I thought the Progress Party would actually be happy. So, the reason for the need for clarification from the Right is that it's not in the form of a comment, the right is out of the comment that says that you support the content of the proposition, with a stepping up to 2 G. Nor is it in the proposal for a decision. There's a purely budgetary matter. So I'm glad that today's Right has confirmed that they're also on the escrow of 2 G on the minimum pension, because that's necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e2286	It is possible, at the discretion of the Minister of Finance, to sum up that she takes a significant responsibility for the implementation of the climate agreement. There is obviously a pause in this work in the government that makes it important to get up the speed as soon as everyday life comes again. I understand that there will be a Council of States later this evening that will put a Council of State in place at this post. Then I expect the Minister of Finance, with what has been said here, to take responsibility for restoring the relationship with the parties to the climate agreement by clarifying the deadline of 1 July and the measures that will replace green certificates, which are now going into the unknown. I would like to stress that even if the Storting splits, the parties to the climate agreement will be available all the time, and I expect this to be quickly communicated and started, because we do not need any longer break in the renewable energy effort that we need. The fact that the government has come up with better thoughts and turned the issue of taxes on small power is good, but it is definitely not enough, and it is far from the assumptions underlying the climate agreement. In conclusion, I'm not going to go into these advices that the party leader in SV -- and perhaps the finance minister -- gave to the opposition, other than to affirm, one year before we split up to throw ourselves into an election struggle, that the government is in a very dangerous way for its part when they're getting caught up in the reality that they're so very successful, that they might have the most successful six months behind them, for which I understand the Prime Minister's statement. It's just that people don't understand. Politics is not just about breaking the rules of the parties' information offices, but it's about trust and trustworthiness. And I've barely seen a government, a year before a election, which has such a long way to go to restore trust and credibility. I would like to wish the Minister of Finance and the SV's to lead a really good summer, with the wish that she perceive the world around her as most people in this country now do.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e2299	I can't wait to return that wish for a really good summer to Lars Sponheim and the rest of the opposition. If you are concerned with polls in politics, which I often think are exaggerating, I would like to draw attention to the fact that four years ago - one year before the previous elections - the previous Bondevik government had lost a quarter of its disintegration. It was a dramatic wear and tear. Nevertheless, it was that we just won the trick, so it's really a pretty open landscape considering what's going to happen after the next election. No one with ambition to win that option can take anything for granted. What I want for the further political debate is that the difference between the options arises. And the revision is very interesting reading in that context, for example. in the case of the difference in view of food VAT, which the Party of Advancement reduces but which other batches increase, such as: the difference in school policy, where some support the Right Party and the Advance Party and several hours, which the Left Party and the Christian People's Party oppose, and e.g. the differences in agricultural policy, where some cutters and others agree with the settlement. I can make a long, long list of this. I look forward to the policy containing a few more of those choices. What is also clear after this debate is that it is an honest thing to want more tax letters. We call that right-hand policy. It's an honest thing to say that today's most important thing is to use the space of action we have in economic policy, to spend more on tax relief. But you don't have to imagine either the picks or yourself that there are dynamic effects that make the math work. And then there's something to do with the structure of the tax system, given the different effects on both industry and production, which is a slightly different debate. So for the climate agreement, we're taking the climate agreement seriously. We think we should follow it up. We're going to come back with an orientation to the opposition. I very much appreciate that it is possible to get hold of the opposition during the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e2314	I know that most of the Stortinget is now really waiting to get a voice and go home on vacation. But I have to say that when the Minister of Finance calls for a tax debate and believes that there are no dynamic effects, I want to ask one specific question about it. As Minister of Finance, Kristin Halvorsen has administered a system in which employees with salaries at roughly the level of the Council of State have incidentally reduced their marginal tax so that they have a place between 10 000 and 12 000 kroner of tax now lower than they had under the previous government. We agreed, because we thought that there were dynamic effects in the tax system, that people don't have to pay more than 50 cents of the last penny. But at the same time, we have said that we want greater tax relief at the bottom of the tax system, not that it is consistent with the hundreds of dollars that Kristin Halvorsen has given to people with 150 000 to 200 000 kroner of income. My question to that is: if Kristin Halvorsen doesn't believe in dynamic tax effects, doesn't believe that this has an impact on the economy, why has she given herself a tax relief of a little over NOK 10,000?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e2324	It's possible Erna Solberg has been out of the hall for a few hours. This debate has actually been quite a bit about taxes. But if you want a little reprice round at the end, I'd like to make myself available. It is true that the previous government had put forward a proposal to implement the tax reform, with great relief on top wage income. The reason for this was the desire to balance the difference in marginal taxes, between capital income and labour income. That tax bill halved our government, so that when Erna Solberg believes that there is a very good argument against the tax policy of the red-green government, it is so that if the previous government had won, it would have been over $200,000 in tax bills on this type of high income. I and SV have respected that this is part of a settlement in Stortinget. Then we did what we could to get to a more fair distribution. At the same time, we have said that we should not liquidate the property tax, but on the contrary, do the distribution of the much more fair, given out relief at the bottom and sharpened at the top. This means that the sum of what has happened in the case of income taxes and property taxes is an increase in revenue that is on the top. Now we have to clear the arguments a little bit. It is not that there are no dynamic effects by making changes in taxes. I didn't say that. On the contrary, in previous articles I have said that it may be an effect. Probably the greatest effect would be to give tax relief at the bottom, because we know that for example. many low-paid women work in 70-80 pst. position and look at what they have left in relation to how much they pay in taxes. It would probably be more dynamic to remove the cash support for some of these women. But that's not what we're discussing when we're discussing the dynamic tax policy - with the bottom line - because then we're discussing a political point that the right side has had, that's what you're giving out in tax laws, that's what you're going to get - not just once, but more than that, because it has so much dynamic effects in total. And so there's no coverage for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e2337	I asked this question, because I think SV's leader has a hollow argument when she talks about tax relief here and welfare there. Now we've got the answer. SV's tax relief relates to the welfare policy of SV. That's half the tax relief for those who have 1 million. kr in income - it does not affect well-being - but full tax relief, i.e. NOK 10 000 more, is tearing down the welfare of this country. It says something about why it is difficult to take seriously the black-and-white discussions that SVs leads sometimes try to open up in the political debate. At the same time, while actually proposing relief in some taxes - often because there is a compromise in Stortinget - you draw a black and white picture of what the consequences of other tax reliefs will be. I believe that these are dynamic effects. They don't go beyond the first year. I don't think that all tax relief has dynamic effects, but someone has it. Some influence the provision of employment more than others. Some make it profitable to invest more in a country and have effects in relation to the supply of work. Every tax reform that has taken place since 1992 has had an impact. The tax base has been widened, marginalised and increased activity in Norway. There are some effects that are short-term, and some that are long-term. However, all the evaluations of tax reforms have shown that they have generated more revenue than when marginal taxes have been lowered and the tax system is healthier and wider. It's a dynamic effect, and the Minister of Finance can't talk himself out of it. She will then have to review both the 1992 tax reform evaluation and the evaluation of the effects of what is now done through the tax system.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e2348	Erna Solberg has recently said that a technique in the political debate is first to caricate the opponent's position and then to argue against it. This article by Erna Solberg was just an example of such a technique. We can call it the Erna technique. I have not said that there are no dynamic effects by making changes to the tax system. On the contrary, I said that e.g. the effect of reducing taxes at the bottom may have effects in relation to labour supply. But I have said that there are no points of view for the dynamic tax policy so that one penny given in tax bills returns more than one penny, and that has been clearly documented in the review by the Statistical Central Bureau. If we could get the debate over with what works, and what doesn't work out of the effects on taxes, I get it. But I think that the Right Party and the Progressive Party should stand for what they think in fiscal policy, with a political justification. They believe that it is a more appropriate priority than the priority of welfare goods. It's an honest thing. It's a political choice. It is precisely what the voters have to decide on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e2355	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2. [[Fotation, see page 4008]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e2373	No one has asked for the floor. Before we call voting, Councillor Kristin Halvorsen will transfer three kilos. [[Fooding, see page 4053]] propositions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e2388	The amount of the increase shall be added to the number of cases. 1-3.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e2396	During the debate, Jan Tore Sanner put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to consider providing workers over 62 years of age who choose to work a direct tax deduction to encourage more people to choose work rather than AFP.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e2427	During the debate, 113 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-18, from Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposals No. 19 and 20, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 21, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 22, from Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 23-25, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No. 26, by Ulf Leirstein, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Left, No. 27-36, from Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposals No. 37-63, by Ulf Leirstein, on behalf of the Party for Progress, 64 and 65, from Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 66-73, by Jan Tore Sanner, on behalf of the Right and Left proposals No. 74-85, by Jan Tore Sanner, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, No. 86-89, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 90-106, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party the proposals No. 107-113, from Lars Sponheim on behalf of the Left The President noted that, under the proposals from the Right and the Left, two proposals received the same number: 71. It shall be a number. 70 and 71. In the vote we are about to take, the President first takes the minority proposals and then the vote's motion for a resolution. We start with the suggestions from the smallest fraction. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 107-113, from the left. Proposal No. 107 sounds: ‘The 2008 budget shall be amended as follows: Printable basic and secondary schoolsbudgets from 500 000budgets from 630 000budgets from 630 000budgets from 630 000budgets from 414 252 000budgets from 630 000budgets from 630 000budgets from 630 000budgets from 1096 000 from 51 196 000 to 47 503 000budgets from 2 000budgets from 214 052 000budgets from 2800budgets from 228 500budgets from 230 000budgets from 2 000budgets from 296 000budgets from 2 000budgets from 2 000budgets from 228 500budgets from 228 000budgets from 228 000budgets from 630 000budgets from 610 70 000budgets from 1010 70 000budgets from 602 000budgets from 208 to 602 000budgets from 208 to 610 000budgets from 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 to 30 30 30 30 30 30 000budgets from 2 0 to 10 3 000budgets from 2 3 000budgets from 2 9809 to 10 596 000budgets from 2 000budgets from 2 0 from 2 000budgets from 2 0 from 2 0 from 2 0 from 2 0 from 2 98 from 2 98 from 2 0 from 2 0 to 2 0 to 2 0 to 2 0 to 2 0 to 50 to 2 98 0 to 409 [[NY]] 441 item 1, increased by 81 759 000 from NOK 7 422 102 000 to NOK 7 503 861 000441Oslo police district1Operating expenditure, can be used under cap. 440 entry 1, increased by 14 000 000 from NOK 1 479 731 000 to NOK 1 493 731 000551Regional development and innovation60Contributions to county councils for regional development, reduced by 22 500 000 from NOK 1 231 850000 to NOK 1 209 350 00052National cooperation for regional development72National measures for regional development, can be transferred, reduced by 22 500 000 from NOK 384 500 000 to NOK 362 000 000571Ramage grant to municipalities60Inhabitant grant, reduced by 356 600 000 from NOK 37 215 812 000 to NOK 36 859 212 000601Investigation, research etc.21Special operating costs, increased by 13 850 000 000 from NOK 82 100 000 to NOK 100 000 from NOK 100 000 to NOK 95 150 000 from NOK 150 000 from NOK 7 905 95 000 000 to NOK 500 000, corrections from NOK 300 000 from NOK 300 000 from NOK 1000 from NOK 1000 from NOK 1000 from NOK 1000 from NOK 1000 from NOK 1000 from NOK 1000 from NOK from NOK 1000 from NOK 1000 from NOK 1000 from EUR from NOK 1000 from NOK 1000 from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR EUR EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from [[NY]] 651 Item 60, increased by 2 400 000 from NOK 000 from NOK 1000 to NOK 10 10 000 000from refugees to and from abroad, can be transferred, increased by 3 150 000 from NOK 11 800000 to NOK 14 950000 726 000from the budget of EUR 14 950000 726 000 from the budget of the European Union for rehabilitation and action on drug addicts21special operating expenditure may be used under item 70, increased by 149 863 000 to NOK 19 578 000 to NOK 169 428 000 from the budget of the European Union, transferred from the budget of the European Union to the budget of the European Union. [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] Proposal No. 108 sounds: ‘From 1 July 2008, the Decision of the Grand Duchy of Great Britain of 27 November 2007 on taxes on tobacco products shall be amended as follows: Paragraphs 1(a) to 1(e) are replaced by the following: (a) Cigars: NOK 2.10 per year. grams of the net weight of the package. The weight of the fixed mouthpiece shall be included in the net weight on which the charge is calculated. (b) Cigarettes: NOK 2.10 per year. Paragraph A cigarette is a cigarette with a length of up to and including 90 mm, two of which are counted as cigarettes if it has a length of more than 90 mm but not more than 180 mm, etc. Filters and actuators are not included in the calculation of the length. c) Smoking tobacco, savoury tobacco, raw tobacco in retail packings: kr 2,10 per. grams of the net weight of the package. (d) Tobacco scrap: DKK 0,75 per tonne. grams of the net weight of the package. (e) Snus: NOK 0.75 per year. grams of the net weight of the package.’» Proposal No. 109 sounds: ‘As from 1 July 2008, the decision of the Stortinge of 27 November 2008 on the base charge for fuel oil, etc. is amended as follows: \t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t Section 1 is replaced by the following: a) Mineral oil: DKK 0,65 per litre.» Proposal No. 110 sounds: ‘As from 1 July 2008, the decision of the Storting on social security contributions adopted on 27 November 2007 shall be amended as follows: Paragraph 2(c) is replaced by the following: c) Of entrepreneurial income and other personal income referred to in Section 23-3, second paragraph, No. 3: 10.7 pst.” Proposal No. 111 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to review the current Aquaculture Concession Code, focusing on economic profitability and increased environmental considerations on the basis of the precautionary principle and sustainable development.’ Proposal No. 112 sounds: ‘The size consents to a saving of 150.0 million. expenditure of departments in respect of expenditure on operations [[items 1-29, excluding entry 24]] Proposal No. 113 sounds like: ‘The Government requests the immediate effect of the Government to stop all seismic investigations in the vulnerable sea areas of Northland VII and Troms II until all consequences of petroleum activity in these areas have been identified.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e3994	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 90-106 from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 90 sounds: ‘The 2008 budget shall be amended as follows: 153Aid to Latin America78Aid to provide humanitarian aid and human rights71Humanitary aid and human rights, can be transferred, reduced by50 000 000from DKK225 000from the University of London to NOK 172 400 000from the University of London to NOK240 000from the University of London to NOK240 000from the University of Copenhagen to NOK230 000from the University of Copenhagen to NOK230 000from the University of Copenhagen to NOK230 000from the University of Copenhagen to NOK230 000from the University of Copenhagen to NOK230 000from the University of Copenhagen to NOK230 000from the University of Copenhagen to NOK230 000 from the University of Copenhagen to NOK230 000from the University of Copenhagen to NOK230 000 from the University of Copenhagen to NOK230 000 from the University of Copenhagen to NOK230 000 from the University of Copenhagen to NOK228 358 000 from the University of Copenhagen to NOK330 000 from the University of Copenhagen to NOK330 000from the University of Copenhagen to NOK330 000 from the University of Copenhagen to NOK330 to NOK330 000 from the private schools to NOK2 000 from the University of Amsterdam from the University of Copenhagen to NOK2 000 from the University of Amsterdam to NOK2 000 from the University of Copenhagen to NOK [[NY]] [[NY]] 441 item 1, increased by 89 259 000 from NOK 7 422 102 000 to NOK 7 511 361 000441Oslo police district1Operating expenditure, can be used under Chapter. 440 000budget, increased by 11 500 000budgets, 27 7 000budgets, 27 000budgets, 29 000budgets, 29 000budgets, 29 000budgets, 29 000budgets, 29 000budgets, 29 000budgets, 29 000budgets, 29 000budgets, 29 500budgets, 29 000budgets, 29 000budgets, 29 000budgets, 29 000budgets, 29 000budgets, 29 500budgets, 29 000budgets, 29 500budgets, 29 500budgets, 29 000budgets, 29 000budgets, 29 500budgets, 29 000budgets, 29 000budgets, 29 000budgets, 29 000budgets, 29 000budgets, 29 000budgets, 29 000budgets, 29 500budgets, 29 000budgets, 29 000budgets, 29 000budgets, 29 000budgets, 29 000b, 29 000budgets, 29 000budgets, 29 500budgets, 29 500b, 29 500budgets, 29 500b, 29 500b, 29 500b, 29 500budgets, 29 500budgets, 29 500b, 29 500b, 29 500b, 29 500b, 29 500b, 29 500b, 29 500b, 29 500b, 29 500b, 29 500budgets, 29 500b, 294 000b, 294, 40, 40, 294, 40, 29 500b, 29 500b, 29 500b, 29 500b, 40, 29 500budgets, 29 500budgets, 29 500budgets, Proposal No. 91 reads: ‘From 1 July 2008, the Decision of the Grand Duchy of Great Britain of 27 November 2007 on the levying of tobacco products for the 2008 budgetary mine shall be amended as follows: Paragraph 1(a) to (e) is replaced by the following: (a) Cigars: NOK 2.01 per year. grams of the net weight of the package. The weight of the fixed mouthpiece shall be included in the net weight on which the charge is calculated. (b) Cigarettes: NOK 2.01 per year. Paragraph A cigarette is a cigarette with a length of up to and including 90 mm, two of which are counted as cigarettes if it has a length of more than 90 mm but not more than 180 mm, etc. Filters and actuators are not included in the calculation of the length. c) Smoking tobacco, uncrushed tobacco, raw tobacco put up for retail sale: SEK 2,01 per. gram of net weight of the package.d) Scratch tobacco: kr 0,71 per. gram of net weight of the package.e) Snus: kr 0,71 per. grams of the net weight of the package.’» Proposal No. 92 sounds: ‘From 1 July 2008, the Decision of the Storting of 27 November 2007 on the charging of motor vehicles, etc. is amended as follows: for the 2008 budgetary minute: § 2 charging group a(A) is replaced by the following: A. Motor vehicles subject to the obligation to document fuel consumption and CO2 emissions pursuant to Regulation No 4 October 1994 918 concerning the technical requirements and approval of the vehicle, parts and appliances Chapter 49: [[Vehicle Regulation]] NOK 34,02 per month kg of the first 1150 kg of tare weight; NOK 74,15 per month kg of the next 250 kg of tare weight; NOK 148,31 per month kg of the next 100 kg of tare weight; NOK 172,48 per item kg of the remainder [[weight tax]] in addition: NOK 123.73 per month kW of the first 65 kW of engine power; NOK 515,53 per month kW of next 25 kW of engine power; NOK 1237,27 per month kW of next 40 kW of engine power; NOK 2577,65 per item kW of the remainder [[engine power charge]] in addition: NOK 41,25 per month g/km of the first 120 g of CO2 emissions; NOK 195,90 per month g/km of the next 20 g of CO2 emissions; NOK 618,52 per month. g/km of the next 40 g of CO2 emissions; NOK 1732,18 per item g/km of residue [[emissions charge]] Proposal No. 93 sounds: ‘From 1 July 2008, the Decision of the Stortinge of 27 November 2007 on a levy on the consumption of electricity for the 2008 budgetary mine shall be amended as follows: Paragraph 1 first and second paragraphs shall be replaced by the following: As of 1 July 2008, Law 19 May 1933 No. 11 if excise duties are paid to the Treasury at 11.10 øre per. kWh on electricity delivered here in the country. Reduced rate of 0,51 øre per. kWh is used for the supply of power.» Proposal No. 94 sounds: ‘As from 1 July 2008, the Decision of the Grand Duchy of Great Britain of 27 November 2007 on the base levy on fuel oil for the 2008 budgetary mine shall be amended as follows: Section 1 is replaced by the following: As of 1 July 2008, Law 19 May 1933 No. 11 if excise duties are paid to the treasury of mineral oil at NOK 0.895 per person. litre.’» Proposal No. 95 sounds: ‘From 1 July 2008, the Decision of the Stortinge of 27 November 2007 on environmental taxes on mineral products, etc. is amended as follows: for the 2008 budgetary minute: Paragraph 1(a) is replaced by the following: Mineral oil: kr 0,55 per. liters. For domestic aviation, the rate is NOK 0,90 per person. liters. For the wood processing industry, the herring and fishmeal industry and fishing and fishing in the near waters, the rate is SEK 0.28 per head. liters. Paragraph 2, second paragraph, is replaced by the following: (a) motor vehicles of diplomats, etc., (b) ships engaged on international voyages, (c) fishing and catching in remote waters, (d) protective vessels, museum railways or technical installations and cultural heritage in the museum sector, and (e) aircraft engaged on international voyages.’;» Proposal No. 96 sounds: 'The Government asks the Government to amend its regulation of 30 December 1983 No. 1974 on the limitation of payroll obligations, so that the ceiling on the amount of payroll obligations for non-governmental organisations is set at NOK 5000.» Proposal No. 97 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate how a system of preferential taxation of free parking on the employer’s area at the centre of the larger cities can be implemented in practice.’ Proposal No. 98 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess a clearer distinction between ordinary assistance and the rainforest rate in government budgets from 2009 onwards, for example by budgeting rainforest conservation measures in the Ministry of the Environment’s technical budget.’ Proposal No. 99 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit legislative proposals which, from 1 October 2008, grant self-employed persons the right, regardless of whether supplementary insurance has been taken, to: - 100 pst. coverage of sickness benefits under maternity All changes are made without increasing the social security charge for self-employed persons.» [[up to 6 G]] Proposal No. 100 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to set the ceiling for payments under the net pay scheme at NOK 155 000 per salary earner, with effect from 1 July 2008.’ Proposal No. 101 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to limit the scope of the net pay scheme in line with the so-called model of competence, with effect from 1 September 2008.’ Proposal No. 102 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to present its own case in which the reorganisation of the Railway Agency, the State Road Administration and the Coastal Administration of State Enterprises are assessed.’ Proposal No. 103 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to issue a model government loan scheme for transport purposes and to present it to the Stortinge in connection with the National Transport Plan 2010-2019.’ Proposal No. 104 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with an assessment of how new, larger investment projects can be financed in order to ensure the rational and coherent development of the projects.’ Proposal No. 105 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to ensure that the Competition Authority is given the responsibility for ex post control of the operators in the dairy market.’ Proposal No. 106 sounds: ‘The size asks the Government to allocate a saving of 75 million. crowns of operational items 1 to 29 of the departments and their external agencies.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e5358	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 86-89, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. Proposal No. 86 sounds: ‘The 2008 budget shall be amended as follows: 410The rights and rights of workers1Operating expenditure, increased by 40 230000 from NOK 1 328 733 000 to NOK 1 368 96300710The National Institute of Public Health21Special operating expenditure, reduced by 5 000 000 from NOK 400 253 000 to NOK 395 253 0001810Directorate of Olives1Operating expenditure, increased by 4 500 000 from NOK 190 200 000 to NOK 194 700 0002445Construction34The continuation of currant projects, may be carried over, reduced by 275 000 from NOK 909 800 000 to NOK 634 800 0002751A medicaments, etc., reduced by 53 700 000 from NOK 7 470 700 000 to NOK 7 417 000» Proposal No. 87 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government in the context of the 2009 State Budget to propose a stronger social arrangement of the self-share system for drug treatment, exempting the most economically vulnerable groups from self-esteem.’ Proposal No. 88 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for immediate action to be taken by the Government to improve the care situation of the lone minor asylum seekers aged 15 to 18 and to report back to the Stortinge for the 2009 budget.’ Proposal No. 89 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to instruct StatoilHydro to investigate technical conditions, costs and a schedule for CO2 cleaning at Snow White LNG.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e5511	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 74-85, from the right. Proposal No. 74 sounds: ‘The 2008 budget shall be amended as follows: 153Aid to Latin America78Regional allocation to Latin America from basic training76Teaching aid, granted at 25 000 00077School, granted at 5 000 00080 000 Senior measures teachers and other recruitment measures, granted at 80 000 000226Quality development in primary education21Special operating costs, can be carried out under heading 70, reduced at 29 300 000 from NOK 1 012 658 000 to NOK 98 358 000231Children's gardens60Operating grant to children's hospitals, outsourced expenditure, reduced at 614 500 000 from NOK 6 000 to NOK 6 209 680 000 to NOK 15 595 180 000254Additional to adult education70Aid to study associations, reduced at 30 000 from NOK 166 502 000 to NOK 50 000. [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] 571 entry 64, reduced by 54 300 000from €889 000from €889 000from €832 700 000from €648 000from €162 400 000from €5 225 100 000from €5 096 700 000from €8 096 700 000from €15000000 from €356 800000 from €337 800 000 from €26000000 from €26000000 from €26000000 from €26 6600 000 from €29 600 000 from €29 600 000 from €294 600 from €294 000 from €294 000 from €294800 from €294 000 from €294800 from €294800 from €29400 000 from €29 000 from €29400 000 from €from €26000000 from €26000000 from €2949 600 from €290,000 from €290,000 from €29430 000 from €29430 000 from €29430 000 from €29430 000 from €29430 000 from €30,230 000 from €290,000 from €290,000 from €29430,230 000 from €290,000 from €290,000 from €290,000 from €29,930,2303030,230 from €29,230 to €290,000 from €290,000 from €290,000 from €2930 from €29,230 to €30 from €29,230 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €29,930 from €29,930 from €29 to €29,930 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €29,30 from €29,930 from €29,930 from €29,930 to €29,930 from €30 from €30 from €29,930,30 from €29,930,30,930 to €30 to €29,930,930,930,930,930,930 to €29,930 to €30 to €30 to €30 to €29,930 to €30 from €29,30 to €29,930 to €30 to €29,930 from €29,30 to €30 to €29,930 to €29,930 to €29,30 to €29, from €29, from €29, from €29, from €29, from €29, from €29, [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] Proposal No. 75 sounds: ‘The 2008 Stortinget’s Decision on VAT rates is amended as follows: the first sentence of Section 2 is replaced by the following: From 1 July 2008, 15 pst are payable. a fee as provided for in the Law of 19 June 1969 No. 66 on value added tax for foodstuffs.’» Proposal No. 76 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to provide an assessment of the impact of the increase in petrol and diesel prices with a special emphasis on the impact on public transport, the fishing fleet and transport-dependent enterprises in the districts, and to assess the size of the commuter deduction. It is requested that the Government submit proposals for compensatory measures in the context of the 2009 State Budget.’.» Proposal No. 77 sounds: ‘From 1 July 2008, the Decision of the Stortinge Decision of 28 November 2007 on the levying of the document for the 2008 budgetary period shall be amended as follows: The following new third sentence shall be added to Section 1, first paragraph: For persons who have not reached the age of 30 and who have not previously been the owners of real estate or the holder of a share, share and similar to a share or share apartment and the like, the charge shall be 2,5 pst. of which part of the fee base exceeds SEK 500000.» Proposal No. 78 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to set up a ‘Dearness Selection’ in cases where the applicant refers the case to UNE because the applicant believes that he has new information on the matter. The case shall be dealt with within a very short period of time. If the case is dismissed by the ‘Dearness Committee’, the case shall be deemed to be settled.’ Proposal No. 79 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the DNA testing of the applicant and the reference person is carried out when it is necessary to establish whether a family relationship exists. DNA testing shall only apply if the other information in the case does not provide a reasonable basis for establishing the family relationship.» Proposal No. 80 sounds: ‘The Government requests the introduction of an age test for non-residents in cases where an application for asylum or family reunification has been promoted and where it is not possible to establish with reasonable certainty whether the foreigner is under 18 years of age.’ Proposal No. 81 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the conditions of family establishment/reunification with the following starting point: - the maintenance requirement is set at a real economic level in accordance with what one in other areas considers necessary for the purpose of living. - The applicant for family reunification/establishment shall not receive social or other municipal financial support one year before the application. - the applicant for family reunification/establishment shall not have received State or municipal housing aid one year before the application; - where the person is permanently disabled, the maintenance requirement shall be lower." Proposal No. 82 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the legislation in such a way that the threshold for obtaining a residence permit on request for the conversion of final decisions is raised from ‘strong human interests’ to ‘particularly strong human interests’.’ Proposal No. 83 sounds: ‘The government is asking the legislation against lone minors to be enforced up to the age of 17, not the age of 18 as at present.’ Proposal No. 84 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to reverse the change of regulation, which means a stronger emphasis on children’s ties with the Kingdom.’ Proposal No. 85 sounds: ‘The size consents to a saving of 200 million. expenditure of departments in respect of expenditure on operations [[items 1-29, excluding entry 24]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e6827	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 66-73, from the Right and the Left. Proposal No. 66 sounds: ‘The 2008 budget shall be amended as follows: 41Size32Buying of apartments, can be transferred, reduced by 35 000 000 from NOK 75 000 to NOK 40000000272Scientific colleges70Basic funding of private scientific colleges, increased by NOK 1 400 000 from NOK 17 490000 to NOK 18 890000572Room grants to county municipalities64Sex grant, can be used under Chapter. 571 entry 64, reduced by 10000000 from €2000000 from €2000000 from €21000 from €3 Add to €380000000 from €3850000 from €3850000 from €3850000 from €3850000 from €3850000 from €3850000 to €3860000from €118 150 000 from €11 867 000 to €93 7170001521from €7000000from €631 000 from €631 000 from €631 000 from €631 000 from €625000000 from €124000000 from €2480000 from €124000000 from €429000000 from €4640000 from €65000000 from €6400 000 from € from €1 566 400 000 from €72 from €2100 000 from €630 000 from € from €630000000 from €210000000 from €210000000 from €230000000 from €12430000000 from €230000000 from €285000000 from €2850000 from €2850000 from €230000000 from €230300000 from €235 to €2890000 from €2980000 from €298000000 from €298000000 from €296000000 from €230, €230300000 from €2300000 from €2300000 from €2300,000 from €230000000 from €2300,000 from €230 from €23030300,000 from €2300,000 from €2300,000 from € from € from € from € from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from € from € from € from € to € to € to €230 from €330 from €330 from €330 from €330 from €330 from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € to € worth from €330 from €33092530930930925309309253092430 from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worthfrom Proposal No. 67 sounds: ‘From 1 July 2008, the decision of the Stortinge of 27 November 2007 on the inheritance tax is amended as follows: Section 4 is replaced by the following: Of the inheritances and gifts to the children of the heir(s), the foster(s) - including the stepchild(s) who have been raised by the heir(s) and the parent(s) - the following answers: Of the first 500,000 kroner of nothing of the next 300,000 kroner8pst. of excess amount20pst. Section 5 is replaced by the following: Of inheritances and gifts not covered by Section 4, the following answers: Of the first 500,000 cents of the next 300000 cents10 of the excess amount30 pst.» Proposal No. 68 sounds: ‘In the decision of the Storting on the levy on mineral oil for propulsion of motor vehicles [[autodiesel fee]] the following point (d) is added: synthetic natural gas diesel; the following point (e) is added: for the share of synthetic diesel based on natural gas in the mineral oil.» Proposal No. 69 sounds: ‘From 1 July 2008, the decision of the Stortinge of 27 November 2007 on the employer’s contribution is amended as follows: Paragraph 1 (n) is replaced by the following: n) This paragraph applies to remuneration and other remuneration for work and duties in and out of employment which the employer is obliged to provide to apprentices. For such remuneration and compensation, the employer shall pay a fee at the following rates: zone V: 0 pst. Zone IV: 2.55 pst. zone IVa: 3,95 pst. Zone III: 3.2 pst. Zone II: 5.3 pst. zone Ia: 7.05 pst. zone I: 7,05 pst.’ Proposal No. 70 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to implement the following changes to the TaxFUNN Code: an increase in the amount limits of the TaxFUNN scheme, so that own research and development projects are raised to 8 million. intra-corporate aid crowns and up to 10 million. non-cash corporate support crowns, the total deduction basis shall not exceed 10 million. krona in the year of income and the subsequent indexation of the amounts. Furthermore, the maximum hourly rate rule of 500 kroner is removed and the limit on the number of hours for own employees is not more than 1,850 hours per employee. years shall also be removed.’;» Proposal No. 71 sounds: 'The Government asks the Government to amend its regulation of 30 December 1983 No. 1974 on the limitation of the obligation to pay, so that the ceiling on the amount of the payroll obligation for non-governmental organisations is set at NOK 10 000.» Proposal No. 72 sounds: ‘Authorisation ‘In 2008, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs may offer grants to municipalities which voluntarily combine up to 150 million. krones. The means shall be used for infrastructure measures capable of offsetting any adverse consequences of bundling.’;» Proposal No. 73 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to take action to make the pilot scheme for transferring collective funds directly to major cities into a permanent scheme.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e7282	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 64 and 65, from the Right Party and the Christian Party. Proposal No. 64 sounds: ‘The 2008 budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjectivesCroner909Measures for employment of seafarers73Contributions for employment of seafarers, estimate appropriations, are reduced by 147 000 000 from DKK 1 710 000 000 to NOK 1 563 000 0002445State construction32Introduction of short-term projects, may be carried over, increased by 15 000 000 000 from NOK 38 000 000 to NOK 53 000» Proposal No. 65 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to base the model of competence on support for maritime-employees in line with proposals from the Government of Bondevik II, in the 2009 State Budget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e7366	There is a vote on the motions for resolutions. 37-63, from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘The 2008 budget shall be amended as follows: 226Quality development in primary education21Special operating expenditure, may be carried over, can be used under heading 70, increased by 15 700 000 from NOK 1 012 658 000 to NOK 1 028 358 000230Competition centres for special education1Operating expenditure, increased by 10 700 000 from NOK 585 136 000 to NOK 595 836 000271Universities50Basic funding of state universities, increased by 192 205 000 from NOK 6 6 691 10 000 to NOK 6 883 305 000272Scientific higher education70Basic funding of private scientific universities, increased by 1 700 000 from DKK 17 490 000 to NOK 19 190 000275High schools50Basic funding of state higher education, increased by 79 600 000 from NOK 4 982 898 000 to NOK 5 062 498 00070Basic funding of private higher schools, increased by 994 000 from NOK 351 829 000 to NOK 352 890 000. [[NY]] 410 item 1, increased by 9000000 from NOK 61 878 000 to NOK 70 878 000430Criminal care’s central administration1Operating expenditure, increased by 5 241 000 from NOK 2 242 472 000 to NOK 2 247 713 00045Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance, can be transferred, increased by 15 000 000 from NOK 160 980 000 to NOK 175 980 000441Oslo police district1Operating expenditure, can be used under Chapter. [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] 440000571Room grant to municipalities65 Strengthening of care for the elderly Strengthening of basic trainingBudget sites for all children in schoolbuses, granted by20000000582Rate compensation for schools60School facilities, can be transferred, increased by 15 000 000 from €828 400 000 to €843 400 00061Rent compensation - church buildings, can be transferred, increased by 3 000 000 from €74 100 000 to €77 100 000621Supplements managed by the Social and Health Directorate70Friendly work, can be transferred, increased by 10 72 9 000 000 from €22 70 000 to NOK 11 64 000 to NOK 76 000. [[NY]] [[Diesel tax]] Proposal No. 38 sounds: ‘As from 1 July 2008, the Decision of the Grand Duchy of Great Britain of 28 November 2007 on value added tax (VAT) for the 2008 budgetary period shall be amended as follows: Section 2 the following new second paragraph is added: With effect from 1 July 2008, 12 pst are payable. a charge in accordance with the provisions of the Law of 19 June 1969 No. 66 on value added tax for food. Food is considered to be any food or drink and any other product intended for human consumption, except (a) pharmaceuticals, (b) water from waterworks, (c) tobacco products, (d) alcoholic beverages.’» Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to bring forward a case on phase-in requirements for biofuels before such a requirement is implemented.’ Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘As from 1 July 2008, the Decision of the Storting of 28 November 2007 on taxes on the packaging of beverages for the 2008 budgetary mine shall be amended as follows: 2 shall be deleted.’; Proposal No. 41 sounds: «The Grand Duchy asks the Government to approve the requested law of the Municipality of Oslo. § 2-4.» Proposal No. 42 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to grant SAFO a proportionately equal grant, based on the number of members of the organisations associated with the umbrella organisation. SAFO is granted a grant of NOK 440000.» Proposal No. 43 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to launch an information campaign against public and private employers to increase the number of disabled people in work. The campaign shall be drawn up and carried out by the Joint Organisation of the Disabled and other relevant Special Associations.’.» [[FFO]] Proposal No. 44 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit legislative proposals to allow family reunification to be granted only to spouses over 24 years of age and to unmarried children under 15 years of age.’ Proposal No. 45 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit legislative proposals to achieve family reunification in the country with which it has the largest overall connection.’ Proposal No. 46 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for legislative changes in order to intensify the arrangements for residence on so-called humanitarian grounds.’ Proposal No. 47 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to investigate the costs of today’s asylum, refugee and immigration policies and to provide a comprehensive report on the long-term impact and impact on Norwegian society of an increasing number of non-Western immigrants.’ Proposal No. 48 sounds: ‘The ruling asks the Government to submit legislative amendments so that the application in foreign affairs is rejected if the applicant or reference person refuses to accept DNA testing. The results of such DNA tests are stored in a national DNA register.» Proposal No. 49 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit legislative proposals to reject the application in foreign affairs if the applicant or the reference person refuses to take the age test. In order to prevent, inter alia: child-breeders are also open to routine age surveys in cases where doubts can arise as to whether adult applicants for asylum or family immigrants have entered the correct age.» Proposal No. 50 sounds: ‘The Government requests the cessation of the transfer of some antiallergy medicinal products desloratadine and fexofenadine from pre-approved reimbursement to individual reimbursement.’ [[Kestine]] [[Telefast]] Proposal No. 51 sounds: ‘The cancellation requests the Government to start immediately work on concluding the necessary purchase agreements and to make the other preparations, so that HPV vaccination is included in the vaccination programme from 1 January 2009.’» Proposal No. 52 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit to the Stortinget an action plan on enhanced oil protection preparedness during 2008. The size assumes that the plan contains clear and committed funding for upgrading oil protection equipment and vessels.» Proposal No. 53 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to repeal the export quota regulation for fish and fishery products from sport fishing.’ Proposal No. 54 sounds: ‘The Government requests the implementation of a new concession round for the award of concessions for farmed salmonids in 2008. Such allocation should be made after drawing lots free of charge, without leading to the geographical location and structure of the industry.» Proposal No. 55 sounds: ‘The Government requests the increase of ‘Maximum Permitted Biomass’ to 980 tonnes per concession’. [[MTB]] Proposal No. 56 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to provide compensation for Fjordlaks as a result of the financial consequences that the company was subject to by the Food Authority’s decision on the coercive slaughter of fish.’ Proposal No. 57 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to determine the establishment of a system of equal compensation for the fishing and agricultural industry.’ Proposal No. 58 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to review food fees and levels in order to provide Norwegian food producers with framework conditions in line with our neighbouring countries.’ Proposal No. 59 sounds: «In view of the possible extended responsibilities of the counties for the road network, the Government is asking for different options for a loan scheme with interest compensation to reduce backlogs in the maintenance of the county roads.» Proposal No. 60 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to incorporate legal liability into the Road Traffic Code for accidents caused by road keepers.’ Proposal No. 61 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case for a system of classification and periodic approval of the road network in Norway.’ Proposal No. 62 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to allow the county council to provide hunters with compensation for lost earnings in municipal killings by attempting to injure the game of prey as a probation scheme for 2008 and 2009.’» Proposal No. 63 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to present a case on the use of tax incentives to stimulate increased energy saving and energy flexibility in households and business.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e8578	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 27-36, from the right, the Christian party, and the left. Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The 2008 budget shall be amended as follows: 580Accommodation70Accommodation, estimated allocation, increased by 83 000 000 from NOK 2 437 400000 to NOK 2 520 400 000621Accommodation managed by the Social and Health Directorate70Accommodation, may be carried over, increased by 10 500 000 from NOK 22 701 000 to NOK 33 201 0001330Special transport measures60Special public transport grants, may be transferred, increased by 100 000 000 from NOK 233 800000 to NOK 333 800000’» Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to notify ESA of an increase in the amount limits of the TaxFUNN scheme by 25 p.m., cf. Paragraphs 16-40, second paragraph, points (a) and (b) of the Tax Act, and promote legislative proposals for such a change when there is ESA approval. It is assumed that legislative changes will be implemented with effect for the whole of the 2008 income year.» Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the training of faith nationwide in the context of the 2009 State Budget.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to amend the House Bank’s guidelines on housing support as of 1 July 2008 in order to remove the functional requirement for dwellings in the housing support scheme for households with the beneficiary of retirement or rehabilitation benefits, occupational injury benefits, basic or auxiliary benefits, temporary disability pensions or persons with social benefits as their sole income.’» Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to discuss and submit proposals for improvements in housing support legislation to ensure that this will be a better and more targeted response to poverty, in the context of the 2009 State budget.’ Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the State budget for 2009 with proposals for increased support for the efforts of the Catholic Church for the integration of migrant workers into Norway.’ Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to increase the appropriations allocated to the Coast Guard Agency for oil protection, including towing capacity and equipment, in the context of the 2009 State budget.’ Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to review the current anti-competitive regime with a view to a more effective rule.’ Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that the General Penalty for Violations of Competition Act § 10 on Anti-competitive Agreements between Enterprises be changed to Prison for up to 6 years.’ Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to take remedial action if there is an undue exploitation of market power or other conditions that could weaken competition in the dairy market.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e8715	There is a vote on proposal No. 26, from the Advancement Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2008 budget shall be amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e8821	The proposals are then put to the vote. 23-25, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The 2008 budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PurposeCrones634Work market measures76Actions for jobseekers, may be carried over, reduced by 24 900 000from NOK 5 225 100000 to NOK 5 200 200 000842Family protection70Contributions to the church's family protection, etc., can be used under item 1, increased by 15 000 000 from DKK 113 562 000 to NOK 128 562 000» Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose, at the latest in the State budget for 2009, an increase in the allocation to the Parental Committee for Primary School, so that it will be sufficient to discharge the new responsibilities imposed.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The Ministry of Labour and Inclusion is given a commitment authorisation of 0,4 million. kronor associated with the cap. 634, heading 76. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e8909	There is a vote on proposal No. 22 from the Party of Prosperity, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2008 budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostFormsCroner572Rame grants to county municipalities60Inhabitant grants, reduced by 10 000 000 from DKK 14 028 862 000 to NOK 14 018 862 000854Incidents in child and youth protection21Special operating expenditure may be used under Chapter. 830 item 21, increased by 5000000 from NOK 37 683 000 to NOK 42 683 000’»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e8987	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 21, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2008 budget shall be amended as follows: 414Administrative Board and other costs of justice1Operating expenditure, increased by 5 000 000 from 96 215 000 to 101 215 000440Police Directorate — police and public servants’ seats1Operating expenditure, can be used under Chapter. 441 item 1, to be increased by 141 759 000 from NOK 7 422 102000 to NOK 7 563 861 000855Statistical child protection management22Buys of private child protection services, can be used under item 1, increased by 77 575 000 from NOK 1 329 080 000 to NOK 1 406 655 000857Children and young people in larger urban communities, can be transferred, increased by 30 000 000 from NOK 48 336 000 to NOK 78 336 000’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e9100	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 19 and 20, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate companies to receive the same tax deductions for donations for charitable purposes as a gift for business relationships provided for promotional gifts.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to review the rules for the publication of tax lists with a view to eliminating doubts as to whether the current scheme involves infringements of the nature of the EMK. 8 and provide this to the Magnificent in an appropriate manner.»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e9122	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-18, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian Party, and Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The 2008 budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostFormsCroner1427Directorate for Nature Management60 Grants to local development funds, awarded at 20000000’» [[NY]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government requests the submission of proposals for an improved individual pension saving scheme with annual deductions from general income for annual payments of up to SEK 40000, while at the same time introducing a symmetric tax on the deductions for payments to, and payments from, the scheme.’» [[included costs]] Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to draw up an action plan to stop the drop-out in high school.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to continue in the 2009 State budget the continuing training commitment for teachers introduced in the context of the knowledge promise.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for immediate action to be taken by the Government to improve the quality of teacher training.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to present to the Stortinget an action plan on how to improve the recruitment of the services in the short and long term.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to evaluate the work of the WayBack Foundation The Life After Soning is doing, with a view to making the measures more targeted and thereby having the maximum impact of the funds allocated.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to reconsider the terms and conditions of the Conciliation Board with a view to implementing amendments from 1 January 2009.’» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the original proposal of the Oslo City Council on the law of Oslo can be adopted.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government in the context of the 2009 State Budget to promote the necessary amendments to the State Pension Fund Act so that state pensioners who retired before 30 April 2000 are treated in the same way as other state pensioners with effect from 1 January 2009.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The size calls on the Government as soon as possible, and at the latest in the context of the 2009 State Budget, to make concrete proposals for increases in appropriations ensuring equivalent financial treatment between health establishments.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to return to the new phase of the State budget for 2008 with an overview of unmet pension costs for private non-profit hospitals in 2007 and with proposals to recover them.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to provide adequate information on the background to the delays in the ALTINN project and on how to complete the project in an orderly manner.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the revenue from the operation of the Brønnøysund registers does not deviate from the principle of self-financing to a greater extent than that on which St.prp was based. [[2007-2008]] No Add Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to adapt the fee revenue to the operation of the Brønnøysund Registers by incorporating the level of fees in line with the principle of self-financing at the latest in the State budget for 2009.’» Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to devote sufficient funds to the 2009 State budget so that the disinfestation fish for royal crabs can be set in motion as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to terminate the district quota system.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government of the State budget for 2009 is asked to present tax proposals that will strengthen cultural memory.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e9262	Now, when we are going to vote on the motion for a resolution of the sitting, the parties, in line with the practice of examining the revised national budget, are prepared to abstain from the vote they would normally vote on the final vote. This is to drop a time-consuming and sometimes complicated voting process where the result is still given. The President will stress the natural assumption that when the parties accept such voting practices, this should not be used against any party on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e18626	There will be a vote on the proposal by Mr Christian Tybring-Gjedde on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, transmitted by Mr Odelstinget on 17 June 2008: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals for an improved scheme for individual pension savings so that the level of tax exemptions on contributions to the scheme and the level of taxation of pension payments become symmetric.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-20.ana.ud1237e18734	Before the President cancels the meeting, there is reason to wish everyone a good summer vacation. The President will once again thank you for the excellent cooperation, and once again say that it is a great pleasure and honour to be a trustee of the Stortinget. And since it's been three days since the 200th anniversary of Henrik Wergeland, the president will say like him, everybody has to do what they can. We've done what we could. There were several at the end of the debate on revision that began to wish each other a good summer holiday. Then the president wanted to quote from the reference to one of the songs to the Postgiro building: ‘Summer on Earth smile everywhere the sky is transparent sea blue and salty.’» And then there's a sentence that the president doesn't dare to quote, because it sounds like this. ‘and the girls are sweeter than field strawberries on straw summer on earth life it is now.» Life is now [[Applause from the Chamber]]
