ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e57	The representatives of Ulf Erik Knudsen, Bjørn Jacobsen and Øystein Djupedal, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The former temporary deputy representative of the Hedmark County, Christoffer Horsfjord Nilsen, has now taken his seat. Two permit applications are available: from the Workers' Group on the Preservation Allowance for the Representative of Espen Johnsen from 5 February to 19 February from the Workers' Group on the Birth Allowance for the Representative of Marianne Marthinsen from 5 February to 13 February On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For Uppland County: Synnøve Fire KlemetrudFor Oslo: Karin YrvinSynnøve Branden Klemetrud and Karin Yrvin are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet for the representatives Espen Johnsen and Marianne Marthinsen respectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e111	Synnoses Fire Klemetrud and Karin Yrvin are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e117	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings today and for the rest of the current week - and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen. Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen are unanimously elected as chairpersons for Stortinget's meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e127	The representative, Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e130	On behalf of Mr. Morten Höglund and myself, I am delighted to propose the introduction of zero duty on imports from Swaziland.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e135	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e148	The EEA Committee has decided to amend an Annex to the EEA Agreement to include Regulation (EC) No 15 November 2006. The regulation requires information on the payer to follow transfers of funds communicated. The implementation of such a Regulation in Norwegian law requires a known amendment of the law. In line with this, the EEA Committee has reserved the subsequent approval of the Stortinget in accordance with the provisions of the Basic Law in Section 26, second paragraph. The purpose of this Regulation is to make money laundering and terrorist financing more difficult, i.e.: facilitate the traceability of payment transactions by requiring information about the payer to follow transfers of funds throughout the payment chain, and not least that the payer’s intermediary has an obligation to provide information. The Regulation is such that if only one of the payment intermediaries is established in the EEA territory, the transfer of funds shall be accompanied by full information on the payer. This basically means the name, address and account number of the payer. Alternatively, the address may be replaced by other customer information such as birthday and place, personal identification number or customer identification number. If both payment intermediaries operate in the EEA territory, it is a more modest regulation, where account number or other unique identifier is sufficient. Nevertheless, in these cases the payment intermediary of the payee may also require complete information within a given time limit. In my view, the proposal is a positive regulation, given that it is a concrete measure to track payment transactions in case of suspicion of money laundering or terrorist financing. It's a unanimous committee that joins the government's proposal. The Committee has also submitted the draft suspension to the Foreign Affairs Committee, which has no comments to make. With this, I would recommend the unanimous recommendation of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e163	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1932]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e178	I do not expect that there will be a major debate in this EEA case, as it is a unanimous vote by the Financial Committee. The matter has also been referred to the Foreign Affairs Committee, which had no comments. It could have been tempting to make some comments and reflections on the matter, as in recent months we have witnessed a number of financial scandals that might have been avoided if we had had these requirements and rules for investment firms in the past. But I'll leave it. What this is about is general requirements such as:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t stricter requirements for decision-making procedures within investment firms that investment firms have obligations to employ personnel with the necessary competence, knowledge and expertise in relation to their area of competence supplementary rules to establish and have effective procedures to deal with client complaints and that those procedures shall be available to clients detailed rules on the requirements for information provided by investment firms to their consumer clients and how the information can be characterised as clear and accurate and non-misleading rules on the requirements of investment firms in order to ensure that they obtain sufficient information from potential clients regarding the knowledge and experience of the client in relation to the investment service or product in question that client is sought or offered; All of this is very good. However, I must point out that this has the consequence that there will be increased costs for public authorities, such as the Credit Authority and the Ministry of Finance. It is also assumed that this will have economic and administrative implications for business. In particular, the new rules on transaction reporting are assumed to be resource-intensive for private actors. Nevertheless, we clearly see the most positive sides. This also contributes to the further harmonisation of legislation on investment firms and regulated markets in the EEA territory and, clearly, to increasing competition and confidence in the securities markets in the EEA territory. It's important. I would therefore recommend that the Storting join the Government's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e211	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1932]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e229	A year ago, the Church, Education and Research Committee visited India. It's a country with strong contrasts that gives a lot of impressions. But the experience I think was the strongest sign of it, was the meeting with the girls who went to a village school run by a charitable organization, well supported financially by a Norwegian company. The girls were the poorest of the poor, but they were full of hope, dreams and ambitions. Perhaps the most thought-provoking thing for us was that most of these children were the first in their family and in their family who could at all read a newspaper or write their name. It gives us some perspectives when we in our part of the world, and especially in a country like Norway, take it for granted that children receive education. For us, it's absolutely fundamental. It's just as obvious and fundamental if you're kids elsewhere in the world. Today, more than 70 million children in the world lack access to school and education. Most of them are girls. For example, we know that less than 1 pst. by the girls in South Sudan complete basic education. And when we know that child mortality and the number of women who die in childbirth go down as the educated girls are, and that children of educated women get more nutritious food and are healthier, we see clearly that education of girls gives ring-effects far beyond the educational perspective. Education of girls also postpones the age at which they marry, and it reduces the number of children each woman has. Educated women are much more involved in economic and decision-making processes, and they are much better able to challenge the power structures that keep them down. But girls are kept far more than boys away from education, because they have to work, because they're getting married early, and just because it's not valued to give girls education in the same way as boys. By 2015 - in a few years' time - the UN's Millennium Goal that all children should have access to education shall be met. We're on a form. It has long been part of Norwegian aid policy to focus on education. Together with health bets, Norway has made it a primary objective to cover so-called ‘basic needs’. Education was a main field of intervention of the Bondevik II government in development cooperation. The goal of doubling training assistance from 2002 to 2005 was achieved. Training assistance increased during the period of approximately One billion, from $890 million. in 2002. For 2006, the previous government proposed to increase support for education programmes in Africa and education for all through UNICEF and the World Bank by a total of 130 million. kr. There are few things that result in greater counting and impact on development and poverty reduction than providing education to the population. There is little doubt that education is the key to all development. Without a capriculation for education, the fight against poverty will never succeed. For this reason, many rightly criticised the policy change by the red-green government in the 2007 budget proposal. Where education had previously been a main field of action, it was no longer mentioned among the areas where government would give priority to aid policy. The main bets of the government are now: climate, environment and sustainable development peace building, human rights and humanitarian aid oil and clean energy women and gender equality well managed and fight against corruption Children are only referred to as maritime target groups in relation to health. This watchful reaction also among the government parties’ own representatives in Stortinget. A unanimous Foreign Affairs Committee took the following decisions: ‘The Committee will ask the Government to make proposals on how Norway can contribute to greater efforts to achieve the Millennium Goals for Primary Education, while continuing development cooperation at higher education levels.’ This cannot be seen in any other way than a rather harsh criticism of the Government and the shift in political priorities that took place as a result of the presentation of the 2007 budget proposal. Nor has there been any lack of criticism from organisations. Both Redd Barna and Plan Norway characterise the re-prioritisation of Regeningen in very sharp order. In a letter to the Minister for Development dated 14 August 2007, Redd Barna wrote: ‘The political invisibility of education gives bad signals internationally. One result is that some Norwegian embassies no longer have their own educational directors. It is also more difficult to obtain support from the embassies for educational purposes unless education is legitimised in the government's 5 fields of activity.» Here we are at the heart of the problem: the political invisibility of perhaps the most important aid policy instrument we have - and we all know it works - makes it more difficult to accept a commitment to education. A report on which parts of Norwegian aid policy work well - presented in November 2007 - shows that the high and heavy health and education efforts are working. Why should we not then do more of what works: increase the political effort in areas where Norwegian aid is particularly effective? And why should we not at the same time take advantage of the opportunity to make those areas more visible? The down-priority is also noted internationally, and it may give negative signal effects to other donors and international organisations. Then the danger increases that we together will not be able to achieve the Millennium Development Goal by 2015. In a letter to the Foreign Affairs Committee, Redd Barna explains that the embassies have announced a cut in education assistance for 2008: In Zambia, Redd Barna learns that the Norwegian Embassy is under pressure to cut direct sector support for education, for good governance. In Uganda, the embassy warns that good governance should be given priority over education. Education aid is also stepped down in Vietnam. In Sri Lanka, it has been a long time since education was a priority area. A special challenge is children in war and conflict areas. Half of all children who do not receive school live in countries hit by war and conflict, and are therefore particularly vulnerable. To a large extent, assistance in those countries is about normalising the daily lives of children as much as possible. It's not always about learning mathematics and reading, but about giving some fixed frames and some fixed points. The war should not be what characterizes the day all the time. Therefore, it is an independent point that schools are set up in refugee camps. On the contrary, however, the Minister for Development believes that there must be peace and good governance before children can enjoy the right to education. However, training in aid policy is not just about basic training. It is also very important to ensure higher education. As in basic education, this is a big distinction between girls and boys. Girls are not given the same opportunity as boys to qualify for work. According to UNICEF 2007 The State of the World’s Children, 32.4 pst. of the girls secondary education in Yemen, while 78,2 pst. boys receive that kind of training. In one of Norway's main co-operation countries, Mozambique, 31.7 pst. of the girls secondary, while 54 pst. That's what the boys get. The government prioritizes a high political profile on the international arena and many individual plays in front of what I want to characterize as the long-term development work. I would challenge the Council of State to set out the Government's objectives of training in aid policy. How is the Millennium Goal ‘Education for All’ to be achieved? How will more girls get to participate in education? How do you ensure that children receive more basic training? And how are we going to ensure that they are also given higher education? What should we do with the particularly vulnerable group living in areas of war and conflict? While the Bondevik II government had education as a job no. 1 in aid policy and set concrete targets for the proportion of aid to be provided for training, this government has instead removed training from the list of main priorities in Norwegian aid. In New Time 12 April 2007, the Minister for Assistance said: ‘But I am not willing to say that education is job number one, that it is more important than peace in Sri Lanka, equality for women or the climate turmoil.’ I would rather say that climate change, equality and peace are both prerequisites for education for both children and adults. If not, it is not possible to solve these challenges. Development Minister Solheim has had a particularly high profile, among others. in relation to the climate and environment, peace and reconciliation. It is not difficult to see that these are issues that are 'hot' on the agenda and that it is important to address. But we cannot link the long-term aid work to things that are not related to education. Unless we get education for everyone, unless we manage to train girls more than we do today, we're never going to achieve the Millennium Goals, and we're never going to achieve other and important goals of better health, better environment, peace and equality. That is why I would challenge the Council of State to explain the political priorities of the Government in the area of aid policy, with special emphasis on education.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e301	I have a very strong sense of interpellant engagement in education and how important it is. I have a little less sympathy for the black paint of the government's policy, but let me get back to it. Let's start with what we're agreed on: education, of course, is a crucial condition for growth. We don't know any country in the world that has had rapid economic growth without education at the bottom. Education is not a prerequisite for democracy. There are countries where many can vote without everyone having education, but education makes it easier to get to democracy. And education, of course, is crucial for the individual growth of humans. So let's establish immediately: education is a crucial and fundamental prerequisite for both social and individual growth in the countries with which we work. There is also no reason to blackpaint in this area. If we take a slightly larger perspective, there are many children, too many, who still don't have education in the world, but it goes -- dramatically -- in the right direction. Let me just give you some numbers. The number of children without schooling in the world was 115 million in 2002. In 2007, it has been reduced to 93 million. That's 93 million for many, but the direction is right. 88 pst. children in developing countries are now entering school. Compared to just a few years ago, there is a dramatic improvement in the global situation. There's no need to blacken, it just takes the courage from people. In sub-Saharan Africa, primary school attendance increased by 27 pst. for the period 1999-2004. That means 21 million more children now go to school. There are now 94 girls worldwide for every 100. Boys who start going to school. Of course, the numbers were going to be 100-100, or maybe it was even going to be a little bit more girls than boys. But it is compared to a few years ago a dramatic improvement and, interestingly, the greatest improvement in a Muslim country like Bangladesh, which has carried out a gigantic revolution in this area. So that's a lot of positive. I'm going to come back to everything Norway does, but first let me reflect a little bit on the pointless debate about whether education is more important than peace, whether peace is more important than education, etc. The point is how these things relate. Interpellant starts in India. India is a country that now no longer wants assistance from Norway. The reason is that India has such a well-functioning state that India believes that they can take care of an area as crucial as education. There may be some private charities and some individual organizations in addition, but the Indian state is functioning, and that is the prerequisite for education. There is nowhere in the world where you have a dramatic progress in education without a functioning state. When education aid to Vietnam sinks, it's because no country around the world has made such a fundamental leap in poverty reduction and education, like Vietnam. The aid sinks because Vietnam is doing so well, not because education is not important. The relationship between peace and education is perfectly obvious, as I see it. It is true that education makes peace more likely, but the opposite is at least equally true: it is not possible to get education on a large scale without peace. The interpellant himself pointed out that one in 100 girls in the South Sudan went to school. That's because there's been a war in South Sudan. Someone burned down the schools. Some have killed those who tried to organize the schools. It is not possible to obtain mass-scale education in a country in total dissolution and war. A somewhat functional state, and peace, is a prerequisite for education. That's why we can't set this up against each other. Social structures need to be in place to make education work. What surprises me the most is that the Right, with its ideology -- now I'm over in Poland -- seems to forget that economic development is a prerequisite for education. No country is given massive education without having the economic progress that can underpin education. Yes, you can get help. Yes - you can get international help. That's good and right. But in the long run, we need the economic foundation of society itself that can finance education. Setting up economic growth and education against each other becomes a total futility. Education is a prerequisite for economic growth, but economic growth is also a prerequisite for long-term investment in education - in any country. So these themes - peace, state construction and industrial development - on which this government has invested are the prerequisites for education, just as education is the prerequisite for achieving all of this. It has to be seen in a context, and there's no reason to set it up against each other. Since the interpellant was a bit polemic, let me say that when the Right itself cuts down on the aid in many of the areas where there is money for education, also for higher education, it becomes a bit like cutting off your finger and then blaming others for not getting proper grip. You can't cut many of the budget posts that provide money for education, then blame others for not paying enough for education. Let me say that education is a fundamental priority of this government's development policy. There is much more money going to education than any of the five areas that the interpellant drew out. It's education and health the big sums go to. In addition, we have focused on a number of policy areas, such as: I also believe that the inter-pellant agrees with women's issues, peace and the environment. In 2006, aid for education amounted to 10 p.m. of the overall bilateral assistance. If we add bilateral and multilateral assistance, it's between 12 and 15 pst. of the Norwegian aid budget for education. Nepal and Madagascar are countries where we have bilateral education programmes. In Madagascar, the numbers show that the proportion of children attending school has increased from 64 pst. from 1991 to 89 p.m. in 2004 - of course not just due to Norwegian assistance, but perhaps due to Norwegian assistance. In Nepal, where we've been for a long time, got 60 pst. of the students five years of primary school in 2003, while there were 80 pst. which received it in 2006. It is to the extent an example that even in a turbulent time of war-like conditions it is possible to get a good share of education. Norway is channelling significant training support through funds managed by multilateral organisations. The Minister for Foreign Affairs will, later today, explain an increased commitment to civil action in Afghanistan. Part of it is training activities through multilateral funds and other initiatives. I myself was in Afghanistan and signed an agreement with the Afghan authorities on educational initiatives just a few months ago. We are building cooperation with UNICEF, which is the UN organisation with the heaviest educational effort. Norway is the third largest contributor to UNICEF, and I think we are the sovereign largest contributor to UNICEF per. the population. But even in absolute terms, we are the third largest contributor to UNICEF and their education programmes. Within that framework, we have provided global, thematic support for girls’ training of 450 million. kr. We are also a heavy contributor to the World Bank's fund, at the so-called Fast Track Initiative - to say it in good Norwegian - to advance education aid. We provide significant support to Norwegian non-governmental organisations - Save Barna and Plan. Save the Children have received money for a special bet on marginalized groups. In the case of budgetary support, which is the background to the inter-pellant on the situation in Zambia, it is about what the developing countries themselves want. They want to give priority to their own budgets. In Tanzania, we are going into Tanzania with considerable budget support for the Government of Tanzania. So they focus on health, road development and school construction, and they focus on higher education versus primary school within their budgets. That's what ownership of own development actually means. In Zambia, we want to do the same thing. It is the authorities of Zambia that want this. They want more control over the money. They also get more money because of Norwegian assistance to renegotiate the copper contracts in the country, just to say so. The income flow to Zambia from the renegotiation of the copper contracts, where Norway has contributed significantly, is Norwegian aid to Zambia six times in total. It says something about where the big money is, and how important it is that we use the aid budget to do something about the big cash flows in the world and not just the small ones. Zambia has thus gained more money for its own development through Norwegian aid, but through direct budget support they themselves have to choose how they want to spend the money. It is the ownership of its own development that Stortinget has also raised on a number of occasions. Finally, let me say that this is not what the interpellant says, that Norway has a bad reputation in this area. On the contrary, together with the Netherlands, we were selected to the best country in the world for educational assistance at a large international conference in Brussels as late as a few months ago, where I was present with Gordon Brown and a number of others. So where you have it from being bad in this area, I don't understand. We're good in this area, but of course we can get better. In the end, Norway will be the host country for the high-level meeting on education for everyone in December of this year, which is UNESCO's great initiative, where there will be education ministers and others involved in global development and education, to sit together in Oslo and see how we can take new, stronger, tougher and better initiatives in this area, for which I am grateful that the interpellant has a great deal of commitment. So do I.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e343	I can notice on the ballot to the council that there's commitment here, but I'm not very calm by what came out of that silence. Because it's actually not the right to blackpaint the situation. We use e.g. a part of the time to read articles and opinions of the persons working in the field of education and assistance policy on a daily basis. We also spend time reading the comments of the government parties' own people in the positions of the Foreign Affairs Committee. The image is quite unambiguous. For example, Secretary General Gro Bräcken in Redd Barna says the following to New Time 12 April 2007: ‘In the areas of the development policy of the red-green government, children in education have disappeared altogether. This is a dramatic betrayal of the children of the world». I believe that the Council of State should take on board that this is a rather serious signal from someone who works closely on children and education. She goes on to say, ‘The previous government, with Deputy Minister Hilde Frafjord Johnson at the head, had training as job number one for Norwegian aid. [[...]] Erik Solheim and this government have completely omitted education for children as a bet area. [[...]] This is a dramatic betrayal of the children of the world." Sick about the numbers -- and I'm glad -- going in the right direction in the sense that there are fewer children in the world now who don't receive education than it was before, the main problem is that those who remain, those who don't get education, the core that never gets into the school system, are the most vulnerable children, those who are often in war and conflict areas. Swallow if I fully agree that it is a good prerequisite for schooling to have peace and stability in a country, and that the most stable countries are the most successful in their education policies, it is at the same time that there is a need to maintain normality, schooling and training for children who are, for example, children. in refugee camps, as far as possible. It is a significant contribution to development and peace. I have tried to ask a question to the Council of State through the interpellation that I do not feel I have received a very good answer to. If education is a fundamental priority of the Government, if it is as important as the Government's input, why is it removed from the list of the five priority areas of the Government's aid policy? That's what becomes a little incomprehensible to me. If it's as basic as the Council of States is now adding, it should be at the top of the list. It should not have been removed, and it should not have created the uncertainty that has been created around, both at Norwegian aid organisations, at beneficiary countries, and at those who work with children and education for daily. They wonder what signals now apply, and they feel that the government does not rate education in the same way that the previous government did. That is why I have tried to ask the Council of State about it. I have not tried to blackpaint, rather on the contrary, I have described the situation as many people see it. But I don't get the answer to the basic question: why is education left out as a priority area in the government's aid initiative?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e362	Education is not excluded from the Government's development effort, but we have selected a few areas where we have escalated the financial amounts. It was - frankly - also to a considerable extent because these were areas on which the previous government did not invest. Since the previous government did not put anything significant into the environment or into women's assistance, we had to choose to escalate it. The previous government did a lot of good in education. This government is doing even more on education. So we should really be able to stick together about everything that's good in that area. Let me just say that I have the greatest respect for the fact that Fear Kids and other organizations criticize that there will be no significant increases in money until what they think is the most important thing. But I think that the Storting understands that environmental organisations are fighting for more money for environmental assistance, those in health, fighting for more money for health assistance, the agricultural organisations are fighting for more money for agricultural aid, the education organisations for more for education assistance, the mission organisations for more for the mission - that is, all voluntary organisations are fighting more for what they are most fond of and specialized in. I have great respect for that. But it's the job of the Storting and the Government to balance it. It is not possible to give the same increase to all non-governmental organisations fighting for the money. Save the children do a formidable job. There are very few non-governmental organisations that have been given as much increase as they did through the extra bet on marginalized children through the International Redd Barna Alliance. I think refugee aid to the extent that it illustrates the fundamental dilemmas we face. Let me take Darfur as an example. The training in the refugee camp in Darfur works quite well. Everything suggests that children living in the refugee camp in Darfur get better education than the average for children in Sudan, as it is now. Far from it, in Darfur it is the best and most successful humanitarian aid organisation in human history. But: Because there is no political solution to the situation in Darfur, the children are going to be there year after year. There's nothing to do. You don't see a football, you don't see a computer, you don't see anyone watching TV once, it's not a pill mitt to do there. It is total passivity for both adults and children that last month after month, year after year, because no political solution has been found to the many conflicts between Sudan and Darfur in particular. That's why we're back to the basics, that politics is the most essential. If you don't get peace somewhere, it's very hard to get education. If you don't solve the Darfur problem politically, education will be good, whoever's there, but it won't help the inhabitants there enough, because of the passivity they experience, and they won't come back to their homes. And if you don't get to state-building and industrial development and the basic themes of economic and social progress in a country, education will be good at all, but education cannot replace state-building and industrial development - it can be a sensible basis for state-building and economic development.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e373	We know it's going slowly, but surely in the future in the fight to get all the boys and girls into primary school. But we also know that sub-Saharan Africa lies behind all the other regions. There's only 30 pst. of all school-age children. This debate shows that we need a real push to achieve the Millennium Goal, and Africa is a special challenge. Because even though progress has been made, there are still over 75 million children who are not in education, of whom over 60 are. girls. It's problematic, when we know that a seven-year-old girl has a better chance of avoiding prostitution and child labour, she gets married four years later, and the more education a mother has, the lower the child mortality rate. In addition to the figures that show us how many people don't get access to school and education, those kids who actually have an offer of school, but who for some reason don't attend, get involuntary. It's hard to keep statistics on. Another challenge is that very many children are never registered either. Therefore, we must assume that there are many more children who do not receive school than those who are able to register. What hinders children’s access to education, even if it is possible, is, for example: school money. The Foreign Affairs Committee was in Angola in the fall. There we heard that in principle Angola has free primary school for a few years for all children, but in practice they don't, because teachers don't get paid from the state and look like they have to take school money on their own. It prevents children in Angola from going to school. In addition to those children who don't get schooling in the world, there are 1 billion adult illiterates. Another important challenge is that we need 18 million teachers to teach the children we're talking about getting into school to reach the Millennium Goal. - These are some of the challenges we have. It is claimed by the interpellant that the Government does not focus on education in development policy. It is a direct mistake, and it definitely deserves to be rejected, so I am also happy that the interpellation debate takes place. Education, as the Council of State said, is integrated into all four areas of activity, and it only reflects that we fully agree that education is essential in order to create development in all areas. For example, we focus on gender equality in development policy and therefore have an action plan for women-oriented assistance. We also place the emphasis on the fact that lack of education for girls is the main obstacle to equality between women and men. One of the countries to which we give the most assistance is Afghanistan. What we are most concerned about there is, of course, education and village development. If one is to rebuild a society, one must start with knowledge and education. Everything starts with education -- we agree on that. We spend more money directly on education than the previous government did, and not least our debt cancellation policy has a good effect on the release of the country's financial resources, which in turn means that countries are increasing the priority of education. We're one of the biggest contributors to UNICEF -- that's what the Council of State has been up to. However, as important as what we grant for education from the budget, the policy initiatives that Norway has both promoted and supported and that aim to achieve the Millennium Goal on Education for All. I would also like to point out that the Government actually withdrew demands for the liberalisation of higher education in developing countries in 2005, prior to the WTO Ministerial Meeting. Such things are very important. Finally, I would like to say that we must not forget that what is essential and absolutely necessary for the world to achieve the Millennium Goals, and also the Millennium Goal of Education for All, is that the donors, i.e. the richest countries in the world, are increasing their aid share. The Interpellant's own party proposed to cut in its alternative budget this year. Education for children is definitely out of the question in many parts of the world. So I don't think we're ever going to end up in a situation where Redd Barna and UNICEF are going to say, "Hey, government, now hold it, now it's enough, now we've got enough money for education in development policy!" Of course, everyone wants more for themselves, but there's no doubt that today's government is betting on education in development policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e403	There is a cross-political consensus that establishing an offer in education and health is one of the key prerequisites for combating poverty. At the turn of the millennium, 164 countries committed themselves to increasing educational opportunities and ensuring primary education for all children by 2015. Norway is one of these countries. A recent UNESCO report shows that one is not in the vicinity of being able to achieve that goal if there are no significant improvements in channelling world aid. More than 50 of the 86 countries that have not yet complied are unlikely to be able to do so by the deadline. The overall symptom is that the report shows strong international growth during the first four years after the target was set, in fact, doubling the proportion of aid for the development of basic education. So, from 2004 to 2005, we see a sharp fall, just as if the air went out of the balloon. It seems that the interest disappeared, and that other areas have become focussed instead. An overall increase has indicated that Norway needs to make a strong contribution to our poor co-operative countries being able to achieve the goal of enabling all children to complete primary school, and we have expressed the importance of equal education rights for boys and girls. The Church, Education and Research Committee has seen for itself that it is useful when we visited the Naandi Foundation School in India. In a country where the birth of a girl child is a shame and a financial burden for parents, it was special to meet so many happy and educational students who received a school offer through the foundation. To date, Naandi has given education to approx. 2 500 girls. The main areas of government's development policy are women, the environment, peace, energy and state building. At the same time, the Government has argued that Norway should be the world leader in education assistance to poor countries. But the education aid is not visible in the government's five bet areas. Both here in the country and in other countries, the question of Norway has changed course and the extent to which these areas of activity are relevant to the field of education. The signal power to other donor countries is also great. Norway's 200-million cut. Funding for the Fast Track Initiative has been noted, and it is not certain that this will lead to more provision by other donor countries. Such changes and changes in course require that they be followed up with good explanations to partners and other donor countries. I hear that the Government argues that education policy is a fundamental prerequisite for the fields of action. It could probably in theory be said to be true. However, the question arises as to the extent to which the Government is able to maintain the level of education assistance, both professionally and economically, when other areas are given priority. The UNESCO report ‘Education under Attack’, which was presented last year, shows that 40 pst. of the 77 million non-school children of the world live in conflict areas and post-conflict areas, where education is particularly vulnerable to attack. For example, just going 30 pst. of Iraq’s 3.5 million students at school in 2007 against 75 pst. The year before We see a sharp decline in the number of students, and we can see that 3,000 academics have escaped from the country. State Secretary Anne Stenhammer said to the Daily newspaper on 3 April last that the Government will be investing in providing educational services to children in conflict areas. At the same time, she says that it is important for the Government to invest in public education rather than private actors. We already know that the Government places emphasis on state-to-state cooperation, and that funding from earmarked project funds is turned into budget support. The corresponding grips have the red-green government done here at home. The Progress Party has wanted earmarked funds for the education sector, but the Government has gone for framework transfers. Our appeal has been that we are not sure that the money comes to the users, i.e. the students. The government's answer to that is that they expect the wit to be equally distributed between the big business and the local government sector. Despite the fact that the government claims to have strengthened the municipal economy, little has come to the schools. This year it's 40 pst. of the municipalities that have to cut the school budget, and 34 pst. which merely continues the frameworks. When it does not work in Norway with such a funding facility, one must be allowed to ask if the Government has the same philosophy with regard to the rest of the world. Is it so that one would claim that the wit is also evenly distributed in relation to countries that are in a war or conflict? Can one say that the wit is evenly distributed when it comes to countries ruled by dictators, or is it about rulers in fragile democracies? Is there really reason to believe that in such cases a public education offer is better than a private one? Doesn't the government have faith in education offered by foundations and organisations? It is important to remember that training in the context of aid is not only basic education but also higher education and research. A survey last year among Norwegian embassies showed that only 20 pst. use higher education measures as an instrument for the provision of assistance. Here, the Progress Party believes that we can achieve a lot through cooperation programmes with Norwegian higher education institutions in the cooperating countries. In this respect, I would like to point out the alternative state budget of the Advance Party, where we have just included a significant strengthening of research and empowerment, in the context of aid. Education is important in the context of assistance. That is why I think it is necessary for the Government to make clear what Norway is saying.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e426	First a few comments to the Council of State posts-- I can't stand for it. I just want to remind you that the Right Budget for the current year also meant an increase, albeit less than the Government's, but in my opinion with a clearer priority, at least in this area we are talking about today. So, after reading NORAD's report for 2007, it's a bit of a strange experience to hear the Council of State's mention of budget support -- with Zambia as a rosy example. Just to mention it too: the environment has become stronger and stronger on the agenda. That's absolutely right. However, the work on the environmental action plan in this budget area started in the previous period. Since education in aid was a key element of the Stortinges debate on the budget for development aid before Christmas, it is positive that the theme has attracted so much attention that we are now having our own interpellation debate on this. I assume this, among other things. may be due to the alarming lack of focus in the Government's draft budget as opposed to the Storting's clear willingness to give priority to education. Where did they get it from, ask the Council of State. Yes, they have this year's budget and the budget debate. The interpellant has mentioned a number of important aspects of the case. For my part, today I will limit myself to some assessments of those who make the weakest. I think of children and young people in conflict and crisis areas, and this is especially true of children on the run -- whether they're in camps, hiking or stuck in war. Refugee flows are high, and the lack of education is greatest for these very children. According to Redd Barna, out of the 72 million children who now lack schooling, 36 million are affected by war and conflict, in other words 50 pst. In addition, many of these countries are among the least developed in the world. In an article in the Financial Times of 29 January this year, the Women’s Commission for Refugee Women and Children stated that the situation is particularly difficult for young people and older children who have already lost many years of schooling. The main weight of refugees is on average for 17 years. As a result, whole generations are at risk of falling out of education. Therefore, it is vital that the UN, donor countries, host countries and NGOs have increased attention to the school needs of refugee children both while they are on the run and when they return home. So how do we find ourselves in Norway? In Norwegian aid too, education in conflict-affected countries is underfunded in relation to education in other low-income countries and middle-income countries. Conflict-affected vulnerable countries received only 24 pst in 2005. of Norway’s support for education but has, as I said, 50 pst. of children without schooling. Right? We think we need to do more to get to just these kids. Then more of the help we provide as emergency and humanitarian aid must also go for educational purposes. According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, approx. 14.5 million. NOK - I repeat SEK 14.5 million. kr - for purely educational purposes over Cape. 163, which is, therefore, emergency aid, humanitarian aid and human rights. Although education is an important component of much of the relief effort we provide, what we provide as earmarked education assistance is really just small money. Education in conflict-affected countries is therefore clearly underfunded in relation to education in other countries receiving Norwegian aid. There might be something in the consideration that the interpellant did, that as we see that the number of millions without school is falling, as the Council of State well explained, we are left with a hard core that is the most difficult and the weakest, and that it may need to focus on in a special way and with its own actions. At this year's Davos meeting in January, the UN Secretary-General, Ban Ki-moon, invited the world's top leaders to join in setting stage-by-stage targets on the road to the achievement of the Millennium Goals in 2015. One of these objectives was to offer 25 million more children and young people education by 2010. It's only two more years. It is a task Norway should be involved in solving, but then the government must take the challenge seriously, formulate its part of the goal and make it visible to both us and the international community. When young people have lost their childhood but have retained their lives, they say, "Give us a chance to go to school." The question is whether the Council of State will strengthen efforts at basic education in conflict-affected and vulnerable countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e454	Interpellants travel and important debate. But the debate is based on the premise that education is not a priority area for the red-green parties, and that has strongly refuted both the Minister of Development and Anette Trettebergstien. Nelson Mandela has said that education is the most important weapon we have to change the world. We who belong on the left will change the world for the better, will have fair distribution and will move power to the powerless, to the poor. Education can give people in poor countries the opportunity to control their own lives. Then we must bet on democracy and better governance. Education will give women and girls more power and greater opportunities to get out of poverty. The Pakistani girl Nagina Habib says this in the report «Cause I am a Girl»: Me and other girls at school want us a better future. I've had faith in my seas because I've been educated. After seeing us, people in the village have become aware of the importance of education. In a report, the UN Development Fund for Women, UNIFEM, reminds us that it is not enough to focus on all girls starting school. All girls must be given the opportunity to complete their basic education. Now it's not seaworthy that all girls get started at school. Girls make up a large proportion of the millions who don't have school places. But for girls to be able to finish school, it is important, according to UNIFEM, to look at the whole life situation. Many girls are kept at home because they are needed for important work, such as: to collect water. So then water policy becomes important in this context. Some parents in Mali say this: we can't let our daughters go to school, we need them at home. They're our hands and feet. Then, as the Minister for Development says, industrial policy is also important in this context. In patriarchal societies and poor families, boys will often be given priority. For this reason, it is important that the Government of the Women’s and Gender Equality Communication in Development Policy emphatically states that education for girls and women is a priority area. If education and training are to give women the right to sea, the right to secondary and vocational education and training for girls and women must also be lifted. It is therefore important that, with the framework provided by new forms of assistance, Norway ensures agreements that give girls and women the right to equal education and training. The funds provided for training through assistance are important, but the policy pursued by Norway in the World Bank and the WTO is equally important. This government drew up the liberalisation requirements imposed by the Bondevik government on education in relation to poor countries in the GATS negotiations in the WTO. I was present in Hong Kong when it was announced that we were making these demands, and it was a joy among people who were engaged in education in poor countries. This government has also supported programmes in the World Bank which require liberalisation and privatisation. The neoliberal policy that the World Bank has pursued, supported by the Bondevik Government, has been a major threat to the right to education. I agree with the inter-pellant that it is important to ensure children in conflict-affected and vulnerable countries the right to education. The brutal figures show that one in three children in these countries are unable to attend school. The entire international community is failing these children. According to Redd Barna’s report ‘Last in Line, Last in School’, vulnerable countries only receive 1/5 of all aid for education, while almost half of the children are out of school facilities right here. It is therefore so important that the Norwegian educational effort towards children in vulnerable countries and conflict countries is strengthened. As Graça Machel writes in the report «Last in Line, Last in School»: for any child, education is an important part of growing up. But for children who grow up ashore with conflict, the chance to go to school is something they can't afford to lose. Having a safe place where they can learn and play can be crucial to their chance of survival, and education is the greatest hope for the future in their country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e478	Education is a key to development, both for individuals and for nations. We have experience here at home, and it is also confirmed in international development cooperation. Schooling benefits in combating poverty. But still there are 70 million children who do not have access to school, and there are about 1 billion adults who are illiterate. In its Millennium Goals, the UN has set education for everyone as a central goal. The two thousand-year target is concrete: all children in the world must have access to basic education by 2015. We are now in the middle of the implementation period of the Millennium Goals. If we are to reach them, the world's countries must keep the focus and priority of education at least as high as it is now, and indeed even higher. Unfortunately, today's government does not, and we have not been reassured by the government's representatives in this area. Prior to the government change, education was top priority in aid, with broad support from the EEAS. Unfortunately, the government shift in 2005 led to education falling out of the priority areas for Norwegian aid. The Christian People's Party regrets this. The same applies to a number of assistance organisations, such as the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. Save Barna, UNICEF Norway, Plan Norway and the Norwegian UNESCO Commission. Both the Councils of State and the representatives of the government parties justify this because, of course, everyone wants more money for everything. It bears witness to an arrogant attitude toward what educational and assistance organisations seeing what's going on out there actually have to say. In our opinion, Norway is setting a poor international example with this down-priority. Our starting point for asking other important donor countries to strengthen aid for education is weakened when we do not hold up our own priority of education for the world's poor children. Last autumn, the Foreign Affairs Committee raised the matter in its position on the statement by the Minister for Development, and the case-rapporteur, Dagfinn Høybräten, brought the entire committee to bear on the clear message quoted by the interpellant. Governments promised to follow up. Today he had a good opportunity to put such a plan into practice, but again there are little obligating and concrete words. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State when this proposal for a stronger Norwegian effort for basic education in developing countries comes. I would also ask the Council of State to confirm that the Government will maintain sectoral assistance for basic education in at least as many of Norway’s co-operation countries as it currently has. Can the Council of State clearly confirm that there will be no reduction at this point? The Council of State took note of the need to improve the quality of basic education. So let me do a concrete example. Madagascar is a country where Norway is an important aid provider in the education sector. Seventy-seven million. We contributed in 2006. The country will now increase initial training from five to seven years - an important reform, where they need increased support and close professional cooperation. Will the Government maintain the amount of education aid to Madagascar? Lack of schooling makes it difficult to break out of the vicious circle of poverty. It weakens the basis for economic progress, to master environmental and climate problems, and not least to weaken women's fight for their rights and for gender equality. Girls are hit hardest when educational efforts are deprioritised. Hardly anything is more important for the future of poor girls than getting a good education. A particularly vulnerable group are children in war and conflict areas. If we have money, we can help a lot of people there. In his speech, the Council of State said that it was a difficult task to tackle. But we know that Norwegian non-governmental organisations have success stories for just reaching children in war zones. The Christian People's Party will continue to be a driving force for re-establishing the priority of education in Norwegian development policy. We're not saying that other things are not important, but in the discussion about the chicken and the egg, we actually believe that education is the most important thing, and then the other thing comes from it. There are many good reasons why school access for the poor was a priority area of Norwegian development policy for a long time. It has to be left, and I hope that we will hear concretely how this can be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e507	Thanks to the interpellant for keeping focus on an important theme. Education is an important prerequisite for development. If you can't read and write, it's also not possible to achieve most other development goals. Education of children is therefore included as one of the eight thousand-year targets. More specifically, the Millennium Action Plan 2 states that all children should be able to complete primary schools by 2015. It is also important for everyone to be able to read and write in order to counteract the demise of people, to strengthen political participation, to create an informed public and to build a stronger democracy. Furthermore, from a gender perspective, it is important to ensure the right of girls and women to training in practice. The objective that as many girls as boys should go to school was to be achieved as early as 2005. In addition to contributing to the achievement of the Millennium Development Goal, there is another important reason for Norway to invest in child education in its aid policy. It's that this bet gives measurable results. The first comprehensive evaluation of Norwegian aid, Norad’s 2007 results report, shows that aid has worked best in health and education. More children on the school bench are actually the most concrete result Norwegian assistance has to refer to. I just participated in the United Nations field trip to Nicaragua, and let me say that UNICEF's school, a Safe and Friendly School, was one of the highlights of a poor Nicaragua. Education of children was long a high priority area in Norwegian aid policy. During the ten-year period 1995-2005, support for education was given a growing position. In 1996, the Stortingen decided to increase the share of bilateral funding for education to 10 pst. by the end of 2000. This was later increased to 15 pst. by 2005 at the latest. The left believes that this trend has been broken by the red-green government. The general description of international aid in the 2008 state budget mentions education very briefly. The Government rightly argues that it will continue to support public welfare services. This applies in particular to health and education, both directly through multilateral and bilateral channels and through budget support to selected countries. However, it is not possible to read out of the budget how the training aid is budgeted or compare it with previous years’ efforts. The identification of earmarked funds for education is difficult. Furthermore, bilateral actions are directly targeted at education in the process of being downgraded, as noted in the aid embassies. A little over half the way towards the pronounced Millennium Goal on primary schools for all children is the evidence that the red-green government is pursuing an aid policy that does not contribute to achieving this Millennium Goal. The previous government had education as job no. 1 for Norwegian aid. The red-green government, on the other hand, has omitted the education of children as its own bet area, and it is unclear how much it actually grants to this area. Over a number of years, Norway has developed skills in education assistance. We are now assessed as one of the norms. Left hopes the Government can lift this area up and give it more priority and more visibility. There should be no doubt, either in our aid administration or in our countries of cooperation, that we give child education a high priority in our aid policy, regardless of who is in the government position.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e533	It is an affordable initiative that is now being taken in this room through the interpellant. I'm a little uncertain about whether the debate is just as affordable. I think it is important to establish that aid is important already now, and this debate should be clear on how to make Norwegian aid both more effective and better. That's why it's amazing to hear the representative, Valle, who says it's the red-green parties that want to change the world. Then there can be nothing but a paradox to see that there are just right-hand arguments that win through. These are the arguments of the right-hand side through market economy, through trade and, inter alia, through trade. education that draws millions of people out of permanent poverty. It's also funny to record that it's the red-greens that attack the right side of not taking nutrition seriously. I see it as a bottomless attack completely without root in reality. Let me say that extracting people permanently out of poverty must be our main task in terms of assistance. The question should then be asked: is it going to be easier through education? The answer is a clear yes. The Council of State suggests that there must be peace before one can invest in education. Well, turn it around, too, and you get a clear answer that peace is secured and made more permanent through a educated population. In other words, the answer should be yes, both. In Norway, a few years ago, we had an interesting debate on whether to provide Norwegian education in asylum recipients and refugees. At least I was clearly interested in seeing more of Norwegian aid going to training in refugee camps. It is clear that security must be safeguarded, but we must get people out of the passivity we see in refugee camps. In a number of the refugee camps I have visited myself, including camps in Darfur, you can see that people are doing almost no things in the world. That passivity also drives people into extremism. All our assistance objectives are promoted by education. Knowledge makes us get a better environment. Knowledge facilitates peace building and the promotion of human rights. Knowledge gives more pure energy. Knowledge increases equality, and knowledge promotes, to the greatest extent, good governance. That's why it's strange that education just disappears from our goals. I can't think of it as anything but an oblivion, for a depriorization of it would be almost impossible to defend. It's like one of the speakers in today's debate said: Everything starts with education. That's also a good reason why the United Nations set itself eight thousand-year targets. One of them is education for all children by 2015. I'm very happy that we're on our way worldwide, with great regional divisions, to achieve this goal. But 70 million children without education are too many. I'm glad that the representative Trettebergstuen is raising Africa, especially sub-Saharan Africa, where unfortunately only 30 pst. of the primary school population. This means that Norwegian aid should be used much more widely in one region and in the very important field of education. Again, it is problematic to see that Norwegian aid is being used in an increasing number of areas and in an increasing number of regions. I can mention South America as a good example. It is also important to remind the Council of State that the Right has not cut the aid budget. We only had a smaller increase than the government had for 2008. Let me also, in the last seconds of speaking time, make an insistent wish that the Council of State takes seriously the question of the inter-pellant: What concrete measures has the Council of State planned to implement in order to invest in education and to give education a more central role in Norwegian aid? Because I'm sure the Council of State shares the view of the Right, that education is particularly important.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e554	Thank you for the fact that the UN exists, that we have an international organization that has made a lot of the world's countries commit themselves to the 2000s, because together we can do something. It's together we can change the world. The UN's objective is in eight points. By 2015, poverty in the world will be eliminated. It's ambitious, but important goals. One of these objectives is that all children should be able to receive primary education. We're on the right track. Once so many countries have committed themselves, we are on the right track. And we see that the UN's objective and the UN's commitment to eradicating poverty actually works. But we have a long way left. It's still so that too many children don't get the education they need, because education is the way out of poverty for very, very many. Education as a weapon for a better and fairer world is important. That's why I'm very pleased that the government prioritises education and spends the most money on this -- and not just priorities, but has it as its main priority. Norway is the best member of the education class in terms of assistance. We're betting more than the former governments have done, and we're betting more intently. As the Council of State had in mind, Norway is now also the world’s best country for educational assistance. I'm glad that State Council Solheim also shows that things are related, and that it's not just building schools and believing that it's going by itself. Infrastructure, industry and fundamentals such as debt and justice are important. Action, action, action. I'm very happy that this government doesn't just talk. Let's bet. Where the right in the budget is proposing to cut aid, we are betting. That is why I am pleased that SV is involved in the Government's commitment to assistance and education in the area of aid policy. We do this because we see that it works. We do it because we see that assistance gives peace. Cooperation with countries on aid policy and development policy is incredibly important. Education provides skills and is an important way out of poverty for very many.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e569	The last speaker suggests that she is happy Government has education as the main priority of aid policy. But that's exactly what's the problem -- the starting point for the entire interpellation is that aid and development are no longer as closely connected as before. I also noticed that the Council of State in its contribution was concerned to show great respect for the assistance organisations that had expressed themselves critically. He believed that everyone was fighting for more for his purposes. That's not what's real here. They're not really fighting for any more, they're just fighting for complete exclusion, as aid organisations experience it. As I mentioned in my previous post: Many articles and articles have been written on this topic. When professors, representatives of the UNESCO Commission, of the SOS Children's Towns, of the Red Child, of the Federation of Education, of the National Union of Schools all express the same criticism of the Government for its lack of commitment to education in aid policy, one must listen to it. It can't be that everyone is wrong. It can't be that everyone has gone missing while investing in education. I previously asked a question as to why it was so that this was an omission from the five main priority areas. The Council of State essentially gives the answer itself. He says, "We've selected some areas." So you haven't chosen education. This is an honest matter. But then you have to say it. Then you must not pretend to be a priority. It's a political priority I disagree with, because I think education is the key to all development, all poverty reduction, all peace building and all equality. For the previous government, education was number one in the aid policy. As you know, policy is a priority. The fact that you give priority to something means that you put something else down. That's the same thing in this context as well. It becomes -- to draw an analogy to the football world -- as if the big scoring is put on the bench in the decisive battle, while the coach tells us that they have the most offensive made ever. Everyone wants to see and experience that the offensive football is not prioritised, no matter what the coach says. It is precisely what the aid organisations also point out in connection with the Government's commitment to training in aid policy. It doesn't help that government council Solheim is standing here or elsewhere telling us that education is important, as long as they see and what they experience is that education is given priority, and not least that it should not be part of the priority areas. If it is as important as the Council of State and the representatives of the government parties here today have said, it is still a big mystery to me why it is not on the list of priority areas for the Government. I would also like to thank all those who have taken part in the debate for a good debate. It's an important topic. I can at least promise that we from the Right will not let go of it. We're going to follow this theme further, because it's incredibly important, and it's incredibly interesting to see how education can contribute to development so much.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e582	I would once again like to thank the interpellant for raising a very important debate. I wish we had a little more time to discuss how to actually get better education, because everything is overshadowed by the totally meaningless claim that the government is not paying for education. We're spending more money on education than the Bondevik government did. We're betting out more money than the Right would be able to do, for the Right cutters of higher education, at the latest in the draft budget. It can't possibly give more money to education. Not to talk about the Progress Party that is going to halve the aid budget, and then comes and says to bet more on education. I don't know what we're going to cut down on. What remains is essentially one claim, namely that we have removed the term ‘training’ from work. 1 ) But if we stick to the rhetoric of the opposition, what will that mean? That means, if you stick to the same thing, the opposition weakens the fight against AIDS. That means that the opposition downgrades the fight for peace, etc. I don't want to make such statements. I am convinced that the opposition is concerned with the fight against AIDS and the fight for peace. But these things are so intimate. The fight against AIDS is also a fight for higher education and for education, because it is the teaching generation in every country that is most attacked by AIDS - not the oldest, not the children, but precisely those who are going to fill all the classrooms, are the ones who die of AIDS. Then we will not succeed in the fight against AIDS, nor will we succeed in the fight for education, just as education, of course, also contributes to the fight against AIDS. These things are intimate. I hate to have to stand here and kind of tell the Right that business development and state building are fundamental prerequisites for education. What we see in the world is that the Asian countries that are arranging their business and their countries have dramatic positive developments in education, while African countries, which are struggling with their countries and with their economic development, have much, much worse results. To put the polemics aside: a very important theme has emerged in this debate in my opinion, and that is what Mr Vallersnes said, namely that with the very positive development seen in the number of children going to school in the world, we will most likely be left with a remainder in the most vulnerable countries in Africa, in the countries that are at war and conflict, and in the countries where state structures do not work. We should fix a very strong search light on that remainder. There, of course, we come up with the relationship between peace and state building as the basic prerequisite for education - education as a prerequisite for peace. But the special question that needs to be asked is: What can we do to get education in situations where there is no peace? Too much can be done, even in war and conflict countries, in refugee camps, even in places where people are moving, and in places where they are exposed. But it obviously requires a specific debate on each case, but the Afghanistan debate that the Stortinget is now having in the near future is just an example of discussing the relationship between military protection and education for children in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e593	That is when the debate is on case No. 3 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e609	The aim of this inter-pelling debate is - once again - to focus on the erroneous and old-fashioned agricultural policy that this government is pursuing. There are many errors in this agricultural policy. The situation in the countryside clearly shows this. I have been told that the Council of State, Terje Riis-Johansen, has used morning hours very diligently today. He has put forward a new proposal to strengthen the obligation to live and operate. In this way, this interpellation becomes very topical. But it disappoints me that the Council of State chooses to take the direction of this topic that he does, and it also disappoints me that he could not wait to put this forward until he took the floor in this debate. Councillor Terje Riis-Johansen really hit when he joined the Council of State post. He asserted that every single farm being laid down is a personal defeat for him. There have been many defeats for this Council of States. Farming is still being shut down - at about the same rate as before. My claim is that this will continue even in the remaining part of his Council of State, because this government is pursuing an agricultural policy that belongs to a completely different time from the modern time we are living in today. For the future correction is completely absent, not least in the case of property relating to agricultural property. It has been announced today that the legislation will be considerably tightened up. Authorisation for redundancies will be more difficult to obtain. It is also necessary to make it more difficult to build housing on agricultural properties. This is a sad development of ownership. Today it stands about. 35,000 dwellings on agricultural properties empty. That's a significant number. I think we can agree on that. Most of these dwellings are located in district municipalities that are already struggling to maintain their housing. At the same time, we see that many of these municipalities are very popular as cabin municipalities - many spend a lot of their leisure time there. Developments in the cab market show that there is absolute hope for municipalities in the district of Norway. Many are willing to invest considerable sums in a cabin in the right place - to great pleasure for local craftsmen and the local trading community. We also see that the demand for small farms - and farms in general - is high, but there are few properties on the market. The government granted a few dollars last year for a project to get the lights back in the windows that are today darkened. Municipalities shall receive grants for various measures to contribute to this. Among other things, contact should be made with owners of uninhabited uses to make them sell the properties. So you have to put some kind of pressure on owners of these types of properties to make them sell. I don't think the Council of State will get along with its project. These are funds that could have been better used in other ways. I think time will show that the Riis-Johansen State Council, with its somewhat old-fashioned agricultural policy, will still help turn off lights in District Norway. It is our clear belief that much of the negative development that we see in District Norway is due to the rigid legislation on agricultural properties. Rules on housing and driving, concession law, odel law and price control lead to agricultural property being subject to a completely different regime than other properties in our society. It also does not give you the same dynamics around these properties as in other types of property. Price control leads to owners not seeing themselves profited from selling. You'd rather bet on keeping the property in the family, and that some descendants might be willing to take over the property at a later stage. In the meantime, this will lead to a large downturn in many properties. After old mother's retirement home, the property stays standing and falls due - because change of ownership leads to compulsory residence and compulsory employment. Taking over a trust involves ten years of residence. When the non-residents have established themselves elsewhere with family, work, etc., it will take a great deal of time to move back to a property that is not an economic activity but represents only expenditure. On the other hand, if one could be allowed to use the property as a leisure home, and the land was held in claim by others in the countryside, probably many would invest both money and time in the property. Let's do an example. A family of five in Oslo dreams of buying a farm, but does not want to move the children up from their breeding environment. They are willing to spend a large number of millions upgrading the use, all leisure time is to be spent on the use. With today’s electronic communications, parents can work from the use during their school holidays, which will bring together a significant number of days per year. You can also take a significant number of oval weekends, which also helps you to maybe spend almost as much time on leisure property as in your real home. The use is rusted up to be more beautiful than ever before, and the windows become brighter for much of the year. So this is a completely unwanted policy from the central party's point of view - it's better for the property to fall off and it's dark in the windows. In my opinion, this is a socially damaging attitude. Now the lighting minister Riis-Johansen must know his visitation time. There is a reason to ask: What other countries are pursuing such a policy? And where does ownership stand if you're going to start forcing people who inherit an agricultural property? Is ownership completely lost at the Center Party, or do you have any principles left? For a long time, the press has written many stories about, among other things, the obligation to live and operate. On August 22, 2006, we could read in the Nation about a couple who had to be separated to keep the farm. We could read in the same article about a teenager who was required to live. However, she was exempted until she was 18 years old. Then she'll have to decide if she wants to stay and run the farm. You can also ask yourself if an 18-year-old is ready to make that choice. There are a lot of people who can get in such a situation. This must be taken into account in this type of legislation. I'm still getting calls. For example, I was recently contacted by a person who had taken over an agricultural property from his father. The farm was 35 meters inland, but there was no house on the farm. Nevertheless, he was required to remain in employment. When he asked to build a house on the farm, he was refused, but at the same time he could have a permanent stay. This shows how foolish this legislation is. My hope is that the Council of State will modernise this legislation as we live in modern society, and not take the great steps he has clearly presented today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e632	The President would just like to point out that bringing the characteristics of colleagues from this pulpit might not be the best solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e635	I thank you for the consideration of the characteristics. For my part, I must admit that after a few years of loaded expression from the representatives of the Progress Party, they gradually make a somewhat limited impression about everything that is bad and difficult. At the same time, it was a pretty interesting exercise really to listen to the post that Kielland Asmyhr now held -- with the total contradiction that lay in it, where you start with what seems to be a sincere concern that there is no light in the windows out in the village, and then you have one recipe, and that is to weaken the connection between people and buildings and so on make it even darker in the same windows. So it was a very special post to listen to. Based on the commitment to the representative, it did not sound like he fully believed in what he himself said either. I believe what I'm now going to say something about. I sincerely believe that the new era requires solutions to actively contribute to people coming out into the countryside and feeding there. I'll say a little bit more about that. So what I see is in the question from the representative of Kielland Asmyhr, is a recommendation to do something so that more agricultural properties can be converted into housing or recreational housing. I agree with the representative of Kielland Asmyhr on one point, and that is that housing is an important part of agricultural policy. That also concludes our agreement. Housing on agricultural property represents a resource that should be exploited better than today, in order to ensure permanent residence throughout the year both in districts and in densely populated areas. There is reason to believe that in 2007 we were able to create about 1000 new jobs in Norwegian farms. These jobs were created on farms with housing. A farm without a permanent dwelling is to a very small extent suitable and very small for the development of economic activity. Although statistics from the Statistical Central Bureau show that about 80 pst. there are at the same time figures showing that there is room for more properties to be occupied and exploited. That's what I want to contribute to. The second part of Kielland Asmyhr’s question well opens up the possibility of being free to use agricultural properties for recreational purposes. That's what I realized that most of the article was about. I do not agree with that. It will only lead to solutions that are in conflict with the objectives that I have of creating activity in the countryside. I believe that what the representative Kielland Asmyhr here suggests, first of all, is a recipe that will lead to less permanent residence, which we provide a weakened basis for the provision of services in the individual community and lead to less economic activity in the countryside and increasing difficulties for young people who want to buy a farm. In areas that are attractive for recreational use, such solutions can make it impossible, especially for young people, but for those who want to use the property for agriculture or housing, because prices are being pushed into weather. The purpose of housing, of the cultural landscape and the fact that it is taking care of resources in a long-term perspective suggest that agricultural property with housing should be linked to those who want to live there, want to run the industry, want to get something related to the farm out in the countryside. When these properties are used for housing, they are used to develop commercial activities on the property, providing the best basis for the creation of value and well-being in the community. It's a completely different starting point for developing Building Norway than if the properties are used only for leisure homes. Today I believe that we see an excessive proportion of properties that from being agricultural properties are transformed into recreational dwellings. That means we have to have a law that works better. The most important measure I am now presenting is to strengthen and strengthen the obligation to live and operate. That means that there is a need to make changes to the concession law, to the law of nobility and to the law of the land in order to achieve the goals that I have set. For this reason, I am sending today a proposal for amendments to achieve these objectives - objectives that I want to contribute to ensuring that it will be settled on agricultural property and not for recreational purposes, secure agricultural land management and meet future needs. At the same time, municipalities are offered appropriate tools to achieve local housing targets. The proposals also contribute to simplification and clarity, which will create far greater predictability in relation to housing issues. In matters relating to living and working conditions, it is currently difficult to see the relationship between the instruments and the justification for the rules. I believe that the provisions do not meet enough with regard to agricultural policy and rural policy objectives; they should be better targeted. I believe that it is important to have independent objectives for your living and for your duty to drive. In the case of compulsory residence, we shall contribute, as we do today, to the creation of a dwelling obligation in the case of the acquisition of agricultural property, but the possibility of exemptions must be reduced and the provisions must be tightened up. Operational obligations should apply to the entire period of ownership and the obligation should arise for agricultural land which can be operated normally, either as an independent unit or in connection with other operations. The rules today are unnecessarily complicated. I therefore propose simplifications that can strengthen the possibilities for the municipality to enforce this, and help new owners to better predict whether it is a duty to live and work when they buy the property. This has also been stated from among others. Supreme Court, which says that today's housing legislation is procedural; so there are unclear rules, which means that we get too many cases that end up in the legal system. The Ombudsman for the administration has also asked that an attempt be made to achieve practical legislation on this matter, and that is exactly what I am now proposing. We coordinate the land limits of the Odel Act and the Concession Act. The overall assessment on whether a property is an agricultural property at present is replaced by clear, clean land limits linked to productive agricultural land. For housing and farmland, I propose a limit of 25 dekar full-grown and surface-grown land or 350 dekar productive forest. For concession, I suggest a corresponding limit for growing the soil, but a valid limit of 100 covers the total area that is retained. When the term ‘approachable to farming’ is taken as a criterion, we get a clear change of legislation in relation to what it is like today. The proposal is also a simplification of the rules that makes them clearer than today, so that they can be more easily understood and enforced. This question has been frequently discussed in Stortinget, not least between the representative of Kielland Asmyhr and the undersigned. The problem - and not least the claims - in these discussions has been that we have had too little knowledge, too little evidence on this issue, except for some professors, who may have looked quite high around it. We discussed this, among other things. in an oral Questionnaire in February last year, where the very question of documentation was material. I took it seriously. I started a research project on it. A recent study from Eastern research has concluded on these issues. It shows that most people who acquire an agricultural property decide early on whether or not they want to choose the property as a place of residence. That means that early settlement gives permanent residence. It's an important recognition to bring people out in the village, to get activity on the individual farm. If we are to have a permanent residence, we must have an early settlement in relation to property transfers. We can't have lengthy processes that just push the whole question out and out. At the same time, research into Eastern research also shows that the investment made on a fixed-dwelling use is significantly larger than on a non-fixed use. That's a very good example and in particular a proof of what becomes the difference between real estate and non-residential properties. More resources are put in them, more is done for the development of the properties. Then we've had a specific rule attached to so-called 50 pst. housing. I propose to remove that rule, so that it is only the municipality in which you are physically resident, i.e. according to the People's Register, which applies, in view of whether or not the obligation to live is fulfilled. I am also promoting proposals - it is a bit on the side of the debate here today, but I can mention it - that we are lifting the relative exemption in zero concession cases in which the municipalities are involved in other properties. I also propose to consider imposing housing obligations on large out-country property, which could also be an important instrument in terms of housing in typical district municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e667	It's a good thing that the Council of States is cleaning up a code that many people might think is unclear, and that he's also trying to make this easier, as he says. It is also true that it is unfortunate that so many cases on this issue are to be brought before the courts, and that for procedural economic reasons it is unfortunate that the judiciary should be used in such cases. But when the council says that I weaken the connection between people and houses, I believe that he has not heard well enough after what I tried to say in my previous post. What I'm trying to do is just to ensure the connection between people and houses. I agree with the Council of State in what he says that housing on agricultural properties is a great resource. That's why I've addressed this interpellation. It is unfortunate that 35,000 houses are unused. He also said in his post that our attitude in this matter does not contribute to business development. But when you look at the land limits that are now around the housing obligation, it's clear that these are very low. Today, quite large agricultural properties are to be found to be an economic pathway. If the Council of State had taken a real view of this with the development of industry, he could have increased the area limits considerably. Obviously, a property of 25 dekar today is nothing but a hobby, if that could be at all. In conclusion, I note that the Council of State says that he has spent time cleaning up the legislation, has collected information, and that the proposal today will help to simplify. But there is no doubt that the proposal today contributes to the tightening up of an institute that, in our opinion, does not contribute to increased housing or to increased industrial development in the countryside. He should have made more creative suggestions to contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e678	I will admit that I had not expected support from the Progress Party for the proposals I am presenting. It was probably relatively predictable that we disagree on these questions. What's the matter here, and what's interesting about using a big debate to discuss, is exactly what it is that contributes to business development, what helps us actually get activity out in the countryside. For my part, that's what this question is about. There's no need to be strict with people or anything else -- it's about what creates activity out there. Then it is also relevant to challenge the Progress Party on the figures we see in terms of what is being put down by resources on residential use versus non-residential use. I think the representative Asmyhr, at least silently, will admit that the proportion of dollars used to invest in a use is related to the activity of the use. Now, based on the documentation requested by the Asmyhr representative for a year, we get answers that say that there is a connection between settlement and what is being put down by resources on the individual use, I would like it to bring us a little further into the debate in this room in terms of seeing that context. If we agree that in order to get business development we need to settle, then we've come one step further. I mean fixed settlement, because the numbers show that that's what's needed. If we move one step further, what happens next: what happens to liberalisation, which the Right and the Advance Party want, versus a more political ambition and governance, which I want? I believe that in a country that has a lot of access to money, how many have a lot of money, how many buy cabins and can afford to invest in addition to housing number one, one doesn't exactly need to be a rocket scientist to see that if one here has no legislation on agricultural properties, they are assessed in line with cabins. We see that many people buy cabins. Buying a cabin is quite fine, but I have difficulty seeing why we are going to move the cabin market into the agricultural market. Those who want to have oval weekends on Hafjell have plenty of opportunities for it through cabins. If we move the cabin market into the agricultural property market, it means that people with relatively high resources enter here and compete with young people with little resources for access to agricultural property that can either be a cottage/recreation home or an industrial development project. I'm busy lately.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e694	I agree with the interpellant and the Progress Party in one thing: the rules for agricultural property are complicated. I am therefore pleased that the Minister of Agriculture has today presented a proposal to simplify the legislation on ownership. The proposal leads to a significant simplification of bus and bus destinations compared to the way they are today. The rules will be more targeted and clearer. The suggestion is now being listened for. We want to put a great deal of emphasis on the recordings and the points of view that come in when we get a bill for treatment here in Stortinget. For the Workers' Party, it is important that the changes in the rules lead to a greater commitment to work according to purpose -- that we make people live on the curtains, which can contribute to the development of nutrition and increase activity around the country. Legal employment is a central instrument of rural and agricultural policy, an important tool for the ownership of gardening by those who want to live and operate. The law also makes the prices of agricultural property not too high. It's important. Farmhouses on agricultural properties are an important resource that we need to make the most of in order to ensure a stable construction, not recreational use. We want light in the house all year, not just a few days, because that's what it's going to be. If it gets free for everyone, there are enough people today who have enough money to buy a gardening to have a holiday home in the country. This could cost young people in the establishment phase who want to create a work of life in the countryside. We also have to make sure that the food-producing area can be maintained in the same and expensive way, so that we can also produce food in the country in the future. For many years, and for various reasons, we have had a significant decline in the number of agricultural holdings. Even if the take-off in the number of uses now appears to be flattening and lower than in previous years, this is a challenge that we are taking seriously. We know that many farmers are considering whether to continue to invest, or whether to use their forces in a labour market to demand their labour force and the skills they can offer. At the same time, we have a situation where the world food market is changing. This also has an impact on agriculture in this country. I'm going to say that it's been a long time since the future of agriculture in this country has looked better than it is right now. Supply security and food security are more in focus, and there is a greater nutritional potential in Norwegian agriculture and in Norwegian regions than it has been in the past. And last, but not least, we have a government that will bet on agriculture all over the country. Then we don't have to sweep away the food and agricultural property by opening up a freeway, as the Progress Party suggests.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e707	I would like to begin by commending the interpellant, Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, for keeping the pressure in the debate on housing in Norway. Now he is getting good help from the Council of State, which has earlier today announced tightening up and sending out a proposal at the hearing - so it only makes this debate in Stortinget more up-to-date that this is happening at the same time. I want to make it clear that the Right is a strong opponent of housing obligations as an instrument of Norwegian regional and agricultural policy. The right was therefore promoted as late as last year in Document No. 8:40 in 2006-2007 a comprehensive proposal to wind up all of this legislation - we proposed to remove both the housing obligation relating to agricultural property and so-called zero concession. Our fundamental starting point is that the obligation to live is primarily a very unfair interference with the private ownership of the person who owns a dwelling or a farm in the districts. It is absolutely essential that individuals have the freedom to choose how to use a residential property. You have to be able to decide for yourself how to use a dwelling. In the Right's view, there is a clear distinction between a private dwelling and a policy on how to, for example, dispose of agricultural land or other types of land in the districts. The principle is that the individual himself should be able to control the house, and thus there will be a very dramatic response to the individual if you have strict rules for this. There is no doubt that housing is a dramatic intervention. This leads to a significant decrease in the value of sales in some parts of the country, and there are a number of cases where governments actually push people to sell property that they have had for many years. Of course, both parts are a heavy burden for the owner of a use. We have a lot of examples of how this might turn out. A topical issue that I am sure the Council of State is aware of is the matter where Morten Sixe in Ullensvang for 22 years has owned and maintained a family farm. He took it after an uncle of the father in 1985, and had it on dispensation until 2001. Now there's been a legal case in which the state lost last week, so we're going to hope that this is a conflict that settles. Around Norway, we have many conflicts of this kind, in which the individual owner and owner of a family farm feel greatly overrun by the authorities as a result of the housing regulations. Another example that is quite classic is if an older couple who own a small use that may not be viable want to sell to buy a new apartment - perhaps centrally in the village or somewhere else - in their older days. They will then experience that the sale generates so little income because the State confiscates values under the Housing Code that they may not be able to purchase a similar property when they are going to the housing market. It has quite dramatic consequences for the individual. In addition to the unfair nature of the housing law, it is very arbitrary. Research, as referred to by the Council of State, confirms that nine out of ten applications for housing relief are granted. This means that there is a regulatory framework in which the general rule is the exemption from the legislation. When the derogation is the general rule, it is clear that with the regulatory burden of red tape, with large-scale procedures for individuals seeking exemption, one can ask a legitimate question as to whether such legislation is needed. We can also state that the level of control of the housing law is very different from that of the municipality, and that many people circumvent the housing law and thus avoid something that the law would prohibit. In my opinion, the legislation has rotted, it is not being followed up, and it should - if it does not have a clear reason - be discontinued because of the pressures it brings on people who own housing. Then the question that remains is, to what extent does housing mean anything for settlements in the countryside? The Council of State itself has developed more recent research in this area, where Building Research determines that housing affects the size of settlements in the countryside to a small extent. They believe that the exemptions granted should be granted. As a result, we have still not been shown to have a bearing on housing. I think it's rather arrogant when the Council of State refers to research into this as vision, when you don't even find new research that shows the opposite. Housing is nostalgia, it is symbolic policy as well as at the best of districts and should be completed in its entirety, in the opinion of the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e733	The Christian People's Party shares the opinion of the interpellant that there are too many empty floor houses around the country. There is just enough variation between the different parts of the country, with relatively many living on farms in central agricultural municipalities in the Mjø region, around Oslofjord, on Jären and in Trøndelag. But there are very many agricultural estates without permanent residence in North Norway and in smaller central agricultural municipalities. Although we agree with the interpellant that moving away is alarming, we're on completely different sides of the path in terms of what's going on to improve the situation. The Progress Party and the Right want to remove the obligation to live and stand for a policy that, after all, will make bad worse. Without the obligation to live on properties over 100 targets, a market opens up for agricultural properties to become large leisure properties for capital-intensive investors who stay only for short periods of time on holidays, etc. It is not this Christian People's Party that perceives as living villagers or a forward-looking agricultural policy. A recent survey presented in the present nation states that housing provides more stable housing. In fact, nine out of ten applicants for an exemption are granted it. But nine out of ten never apply for an exemption from the obligation to live, and among these there are more than 90 pst. they may live on the farm for more than 40 years after being moved in. If the holder has applied for an exemption, there is a much greater chance of the farm being removed after the period of exemption. This may indicate that the housing obligation causes farmers to think carefully before taking over a farm and to make long-term choices. As the researcher behind the report says: "They could give the bill and move after the imposed five-year period, but they don't." The Christian People's Party therefore believes that compulsory housing is an important instrument in rural and agricultural policy. Agricultural property forms the backbone of many rural communities and is the starting point for local value creation and growth. Farm assets that are propelling should be priced precisely on the basis of their propitiousness and should be in active operation. There is no doubt that housing seems price-absorbing. Had it not been the case, we would not have had political noise on this matter. At the same time, it is unfortunate that practices vary greatly from municipality to municipality. If the housing obligation scheme is to have a future, it must be practised fairly equally and with sound reason. Here the Minister of Agriculture has a challenge, so that housing can function according to its purpose, namely to keep up housing and to create life, well-being and activity throughout the country. Another important measure to ensure the settlement of farms in the districts is to pursue an agricultural policy that provides the farmers with predictable framework conditions in terms of prices and budgets. In these questions, the Christian People's Party is the main supporter of agriculture and district Norway. The Progress Party represents a policy that will frustrate Norwegian agriculture as we know it today, and that will really advance in the darkening of the farm windows around the country. Nor is it possible to get away from the fact that the agricultural policy of the Right and the Left also involves changes that will lead to more difficult framework conditions for farmers and increased likelihood of relocation. The government parties, on their side, have had the support of the Christian People's Party for what has largely been a continuation of the agricultural policy pursued under the Bondevik II regime. At the same time, the government now has a job to do to meet the expectations created by the red-green parties during the 2005 election campaign. The leader of Norwegian Farmers' Associations, Ole-Anton Tegen, wrote in the Nation yesterday that Norwegian agriculture is in a time of fate. He says that "it's now" if we're going to rock the agricultural environment in District Norway. The removal of housing or other measures that will make agricultural activities and housing more uncertain is now needed for the last Norwegian rural population. The Christian People's Party will do its part to ensure that agriculture is given as good and predictable a framework as possible, and that agricultural policy is as much as possible in line with the signals received from agricultural organisations and from people in the countryside. The Christian People's Party is very interested in the proposals for strengthening and securing housing that have been sent to the hearing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e762	There should be light in the houses, says Kari Bremnes, and I fully agree with that. The representative of Kielland Asmyhr also seems to believe that it is important, but he clearly believes that there should only be light in the houses in parts of the year. For me, it is essential that the lights are on all year round, and I am therefore very pleased that the Minister of Agriculture and Food today is calling for a simpler and more focused law on housing. The government has as one of its objectives the conservation and further development of local communities. Housing is a central instrument in this regard and is necessary for the use of agricultural property throughout the country for something more than leisure dwellings in parts of the year. The properties have to be considered as a resource that can provide a basis for something more than a holiday home and contribute to increased housing and value creation in the community. Me and the Center Party do not want District Norway to be made up of holiday colonies, but that the houses and properties will be useful throughout the year. I am committed to creating opportunities for business development across the country and believe that some of the most important tasks that the authorities have are to give more opportunities to participate in that economic development. A simplified and reinforced living obligation will contribute to the owner's obligation to keep in the claimed property where he or she wants to settle and not force anyone to live there if they don't want to. More and more people see the importance of having a well-kept cultural landscape and living settlements, not only for the production of short-range, environmentally friendly food, but also for other nutritional purposes. A constantly evolving and high-potential travel industry depends on the fact that we actually have something to show. Therefore, it is essential that we have a regulatory framework for agricultural properties that imposes some requirements and that allows us to maintain the cultural landscape. A local management of properties and values will help ensure the development of District Norway so that the houses with light in do not become a holiday phenomenon, while they are darked up for much of the year. The representative of Kielland Asmyhr points to something important, namely how we are going to get a larger settlement on the many agricultural properties that are currently unoccupied. I believe that housing is an important tool in this matter, but that the way to go is not to open up more holiday homes that are only used occasionally. We do not facilitate value creation and industrial development in District Norway by facilitating the use of agricultural property as a holiday home. A review of the housing obligation and an improvement of the legislation will help to ensure that agricultural property is inhabited and used all year round. We avoid that matters are settled in the courts, and ensure a real local administration of properties and values. A manageable regulatory framework will ensure equal treatment, and the local level of administration will have a means of achieving its objectives in local enterprise policy. Here, it is also important to have a price level on these properties that makes them available to those who want to use them for economic development, thus contributing to the development of District Norway. Furthermore, it is important that values are held locally in order to ensure local responsibility for development. Many communities are currently vulnerable to further depopulation and degradation of the nutrient base. A clear obligation to live and operate will ensure that the agricultural property comes to people who want to live there and create values in District Norway, and who take care of the building mass that is there, and the valuable food earth. It's important to the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e780	I share the concern of the inter-pellant that strict and rigid legislation contributes to a dozen thousand houses on agricultural properties being empty. Today, 34 000 agricultural properties are uninhabited, partly as a result of a low level of flexibility. At the same time, studies show that between 200,000 and 500,000 Nordics want to move to a small farm. Based on the debate here, I am very disappointed with the confidence that is in the pursuit of nutrition among the 100,000 who want to purchase such a small use. This was also the reason why the previous government and government councillor Lars Sponheim proposed to lift the ban on sharing in the law. Unfortunately, the proposal was - as much as other - reversed by the sitting government. In the agricultural debate, there is a marked distinction between those who believe that tomorrow's challenges are solved with yesterday's solutions and those who are willing to change to renew. Unfortunately, the Centre Party has been given almost a blank mandate in terms of the Government's agricultural policy and is leading, in the opinion of the Left, a hopelessly outdated policy in this area. We are not least looking at those changes in, among other things. the obligation to provide housing and employment by the Council of State today. Thinking that there will be more people living on agricultural properties, by forcing them to do so, is totally wrong at a time when many are increasingly doing their work from both housing and leisure. We need a more active housing policy for those agricultural properties that are essentially a place to live. Small purchases should be made more easily - to ensure housing and increased diversity in the countryside. It must be easier to break up an agricultural property so that more people can live there. The most important thing must be that people get to live where they want to, and that the earth is driven, not that the person who drives the earth must absolutely live on it, and that no one but those who have driven or run the earth is allowed to do so. The left considers, on a general basis, that there needs to be more diversity in agriculture. We believe that local authorities need to be given greater opportunities for local adjustment and to see agricultural policy in the context of other business. The complexity of the legislation and many of the laws of agriculture hinder the development of more flexible agriculture, allowing those who want to invest in the industry to do so. That is why the Left wants a full review of all legislation and regulations with a view to a strong modernisation. The previous government made a number of changes to the law to stimulate housing rather than housing obligations, especially on the smaller properties, which the interpellant is occupied with. Property under 100 targets were made concession-free. A free amount of NOK 750000 was introduced before price controls were applied to built-up agricultural properties, and the capitalisation rate base was reduced to 4 pst. Overall, that policy has given each farmer greater freedom of action and responsibility for the price to be paid for agricultural land and agricultural property. In the vast majority of cases, these changes did not mean that there would be a duty to live and operate or a real price regulation, but free movement on very many agricultural properties that are actually most suitable for residential purposes. Not least this applies to many of the smallest properties, as much demand. To be honest, I don't fully understand the Council of State and, to the extent that the Farmers' Team's persistent struggle to make it so difficult to live on an old farm or farm property without operating traditional farms. All proposals for a number of changes to the law of the nobility, the law of the concession and the law of the land that are being consulted today are being incorporated into the same pattern. The Minister of Agriculture has so far distinguished himself by noting that he is considering imposing a residence obligation on foreign and mountain areas - as he repeats today - and, secondly, by stating that authorisation for the construction of a nursing home should only be granted where there is no doubt that the residence is necessary for the operation of the property. For me and the Left, it is obvious that the agriculture of the future depends on the people who are allowed to live on the farm and their initiative. Therefore, it is so important to be open and flexible in order to find solutions that allow the active, creative and initiative-rich to settle and develop farm use in the light of the opportunities they see. What Norwegian agriculture needs are arm strokes and homesickness, not detailed regulation and over-controls. Then the best people find other things to do. Then I respond to the post of the representative of the Christian People's Party, Tørresdal. She says that the Christian People's Party stands for the agricultural policy that Bondevik II stood for, and still wants it. I just want to remind you of who ran the Ministry of Agriculture of the Bondevik II government. It was precisely the Left, and then it is strange to criticise the agricultural policy of the Left in the same breath.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e806	There is nothing new from the Progress Party, their policies are quite simple: if the person who acquires an agricultural property wants to use it as a cabin, it is quite right in the view of the party. The responsibility and privilege of taking over an agricultural property is to give substance to the individual. And it's the one who pays the best, who acquires the property. It is a position that is contrary to the Norwegian property tradition, but it is quite in line with the Southern European tradition, where one has such a relationship, which leads to significant social conflicts - because it gives rise to great class differences, among other things. But when I asked for the word, it was because of the right party, which says that having duties is an interference with ownership. I feel then a need to draw some historical lines. When a concession law discussed in this hall after 1905, the Right was systematic against any concession law and obligations relating to ownership. And similarly, when a disputed odels- and concession law was discussed in 1975, the party was right against living and working obligations. When we combine that position with the party's position on a common agricultural market that will historically result in very low agricultural prices, we get a property policy where the one who pays the most will take over, and those who will then work with the land will get a much lower profitability through lower prices. In a time like the one we're now in, with a lot of people who have easy money, we know that it will very quickly lead to radical changes in who owns agricultural property. I just want to clarify the Right Long Lines, if anyone were to be in doubt about them. The right-hand long lines are that they have money to own agricultural property. So we get the inter-European differences among people, between those who own, and the few who run -- at all, social relationships that are very, very, very, very, very beneficial. The centre party has a ownership view where ownership rights and property obligations are run together. It facilitates more equivalent social conditions, and it is accepted as a major force internationally, both socially, powerful, ecologically and agriculturally, because it ensures a longer-term use of the land. Therefore, the Centre Party is seagoing in line with the Government when it wants to tighten up the personal dwelling obligation of all property transfers. It's a necessary move. A further necessary feature is that one improves profitability by working with soil. If one is to take the climate obligations and the challenges that we have there seriously, work related to photosynthesis must be greatly appreciated by improving the economy. That's what's happening internationally, and it gives us clear signals that we also have to follow up on that nationally. If we combine this with the third feature, namely improving communications, not least data communication, beyond the country, one could have the opportunity for many people who want the privilege of acquiring a farm to be able to combine agricultural activities, rural activities and service jobs in the place where one lives, and thus have the opportunity to expand, both in relation to their children and in relation to their profession. There's unique possibilities here. This third has a clear view of how ownership rights are combined with property obligations, improving profitability by working on land and in forests - because it is renewable energy, which is absolutely essential to the major challenges - and facilitating communications that eliminate distance costs. It gives a new era to live on and run a farm. I am pleased that the Government is in one way in the process of the matter we are now talking about: obligations relating to ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e823	I have to say that I am a little sad about this debate. Because, as this debate has shown, there is a quite large minority in this Chamber who have a completely different view of this matter than the Council of State has in mind on behalf of the parties to the Government. That's why I think it would have been important that the Council of State could also come up with something more in relation to such an important question as what I've been trying to ask here. I agree with the Riis-Johansen Council that the big debate is on what contributes to the development of industry in the countryside, but what are the issues that the Riis-Johansen Council has sent to Stortinget so far in this great period of discussion? He has sent the annual agricultural settlement, correctly, but what are the basic issues that the Council of State Riis-Johansen has sent and will send to the Stortinget which contributes to a thorough discussion of what contributes to industrial development in the countryside? If Riis-Johansen reads the settings for both St.prp. No 1 and in the last few years, he will see that the Progress Party has made a number of proposals in terms of what can contribute to increased industrial development in rural areas, and especially in agriculture. Some of my points about travelling this interpellation debate have also been to show that the interface between what is considered a main dwelling, and what is considered a leisure home in our society, is now in the process of being completely erased. The quality and standard of recreational homes has been completely different in the last 20 years than we've been used to before. It's not a secret that a lot of people want to invest a lot in housing number two, and maybe in housing number three. This can also help people who have their roots in the countryside to come back, but because of a work situation in modern professions they cannot change their addresses back to the countryside. So I would warn you that this is going to be a debate about those who have a lot of resources, or about those who don't have the same amount of resources. It is clear that the Government wants to close both capital and people with resources out of agriculture. But that is not what agriculture does. Agriculture has earned - and needs - capital from the outside. Just look at what Norwegians have contributed in so-called remote areas in Sweden - this has contributed to new growth in agricultural areas that have been moved away.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e841	The representative of Kielland Asmyhr was sad. I'll say I'm a little surprised, I. Now I have heard the representative Kielland Asmyhr repeatedly complain that he does not have the opportunity to discuss concrete political issues because they are largely presented in budget proposals and in agricultural agreement proposals. In fact, today there is a very concrete matter of living. The representative of Kielland Asmyhr has brought up a very specific matter. But what I hear is nothing but approximate considerations that the representative Kielland Asmyhr has presented in this room relatively many times earlier. When it comes to moving on and discussing what contributes to industrial development in the countryside, I have not heard a new assessment from the representative of Kielland Asmyhr. And so it happens at the same time that the Government is presenting a comprehensive, comprehensive document for consultation today on housing law, related to one major and important issue: what is it going to do to create nutrition in the countryside, and what is it going to do to get activity out there? Then I note that the floor was forced by the representative of Kielland Asmyhr, the representative of Hansen and the representative of Kongshaug in the debate. I think it's abuse of the word coercion. This isn't about forcing one human being to anything. It's completely voluntary to sell a farm, it's completely voluntary to buy a farm, and it's completely voluntary to handle these questions. What we're saying is that when we have an agricultural policy that we actually spend a lot of money on, and we have some legislation related to it in terms of border protection, etc., the least one could demand is that the people who want to be part of this agricultural policy, also have some obligations to do so, both to take care of cultural landscapes, to produce food, and to participate in and pursue rural policy in the future. But it's a completely voluntary choice that the individual makes. There is no coercion in this. If someone wants not to take over a farm, it's free choice. So the representative Kielland Asmyhr finally says here that he wants to channel investment funds into the countryside. I have not heard the representative comment on the recent research report, which shows the actual figures relating to the extent to which funds are channelled into the individual farm, with different degrees of connection to the farm. The conclusions are quite unambiguous: if you have investments on the individual farm, you must have a residence. In those farms where there is no permanent residence, there is significantly less investment in resources than in those farms where the housing is fixed. If the representative of Kielland Asmyhr actually believes that he is concerned about getting investment into the countryside, we have to get people to live and feed on the individual farm. And when this interpellation debate ends with the fact that Kielland Asmyhr's representative refers to Sweden as the successful example of channelling investments into the countryside, the ring has in a way been closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e852	The debate on substance is closed. 4 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e863	The direct thrust of the presentation and the debate today is a decision taken by the Stortinget on 5 December last year: ‘The Government is asked to provide the Storting with an appropriate coordinated plan for the development of Norway’s contribution to Afghanistan, including civil development assistance and the contribution to the country’s political state and nation-building.’ In addition to this, the brutal attack on Serena Hotel in Kabul on 14 January this year has led to an even wider debate on Afghanistan and our own policies in the country. The attack -- which took several lives, including one Norwegian -- was very dramatic. It was probably the first time that an official Norwegian delegation abroad was directly affected by a terrorist attack. The government takes this very seriously. Since 15 January, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice have been working on a thorough review of the incidents associated with the attack, a review of the preparations for my visit to Afghanistan, and proposals for further follow-up, among others. as regards the safety of voyages to exposed areas. I refer to the contacts with the parliamentary leaders last week, where I have informed that the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Justice and I will consult the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee on the results of the review and our further work planned on this issue at the meeting scheduled for tomorrow, Wednesday 6 February. The reports from the departments will be published later that same day, i.e. tomorrow. These will provide an overall review of the events and proposals for some immediate actions. The government will provide information on the further follow-up work that will now be initiated with procedures related to visits to exposed areas. In view of this, I suggest that the focus of this statement will remain on the objective, namely to respond to the request of 5 December last year to present a coordinated plan for the development of Norway’s contribution to Afghanistan. The date of the presentation is also appropriate from the political level meetings to be held in NATO up to the Bucuresti Summit from 2 to 4 April this year. A Minister of Defence meeting takes place in Vilnius this week, and a Minister of Foreign Affairs meeting is held early in March. Therefore, in the light of the current debate, I think it is right to give this presentation a broad perspective, as well as focusing on the Norwegian effort. I want to describe today the situation in the country as the Government now experiences it. It can explain the background to the arrangement of our contributions and put these contributions in perspective in relation to the overall efforts of the international community. In assessing the situation in Afghanistan today, it is natural to assume what the country looked like at the beginning of this decade. It was the circumstances around 2001 that allowed the basis for the involvement of so many countries now taking part. Afghanistan was a country that, with the exception of a smaller part of the north, was ruled by a Taliban regime that shocked us all. It shocked us by daily and brutal violations of fundamental human rights, by public executions by stoning, by assaults on women, by the exclusion of girls and women from education, by the ban on images of people and on television, and by the destruction of historical and religious monuments, our common world heritage. And not least: it was a country that gradually became a haven for foreign terrorists - like Al Qaida - and thus an arena for planning terrorist acts against other countries. The most devastating thing - but far from it all - was the attacks on New York and Washington D.C. on September 11, 2001. In line with the right to self-defence, the United States attacked Afghanistan in October 2001, and the Taliban regime fell. At the UN Conference on Afghanistan in Bonn in December 2001, an agreement on temporary arrangements was reached in the country, pending the re-establishment of permanent authorities. The agreement led to elections to Afghan political institutions. It recognised that it would take time for new Afghan security forces and military forces to be fully established and operational and therefore requested the UN Security Council to be strengthened by a UN mandate. The situation in Afghanistan was identified by the Security Council as a threat to international peace and security. In the light of the Bonn Agreement and the expressed wish expressed by the Afghan authorities, the Security Council, in Resolution 1386, under Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter, decided to authorise an international security force, ISAF, so that this temporary Afghan regime and UN personnel could operate in security. The Interim Bonn Agreement was followed up by the London Conference, led by the United Nations, Afghanistan and the United Kingdom, which two years ago adopted a comprehensive programme, Afghanistan Compact, to bring lasting stability and development to the country through broad international efforts. Today, we can see that the work on building a stable Afghanistan has proved more difficult than many had imagined. We're talking about the world's fifth poorest country. After nearly three decades of war and conflict, the country's infrastructure lay in ruins. Government institutions did not exist or did not function. The health and education system was destroyed. The humanitarian situation was precarious for millions of people. Many of Afghanistan's most educated people had left the country. At the same time, probably both the new Afghan authorities and the international community had underestimated the ability of the Taliban and other rebel movements to come back. In fact, the Taliban was dramatically weakened, but the movement was gradually given the opportunity to build up in areas in Afghanistan and Pakistan. Thus again, two years ago, it was able to challenge both the international community and the new elected governments. In addition, there are a number of other armed groupings that are difficult to integrate into a common Afghan regime. It is not difficult to describe the problems and challenges in today’s Afghanistan. They are many, and they are demanding: The humanitarian challenges remain major. The institutions of the state are weak. It is widespread corruption, and the country is the world's largest producer of opium. The rebel movements have become stronger. They challenge the Afghan Government and the international community in significant parts of the country. The judicial system is weak. Reported human rights violations include extrajudicial executions, rape, kidnapping, trafficking in human beings and the abuse of prisoners. The country’s security challenges have not diminished. We experience that every day. But the great spring offensive many were waiting for in 2007, was missing. Instead, the Taliban and other insurgents switched to more extensive use of road bombs, suicide attacks, and other forms of so-called asymmetric warfare. However, it is important in this picture to highlight positive developments, as these often disappear in the debate on the problems we are now facing. Let me describe some of these features, as the United Nations in Afghanistan makes the situation. First of all, overall policy: democratic elections were held in 2004 and 2005 in President, National Assembly and Provincial Assembly. A quarter of the members of the national Parliament are women. A new constitution has been adopted. The law is under development. The institutions of the State are being built up. About 80 pst. The population now has access to health services — albeit modest and inadequate — compared to 9 pst. in 2004. More than 4000 clinics and health centres have been opened in the last four years. Child mortality is reduced by one fourth. All six million children and young people are now under education -- millions of them are girls. The next school year, 400,000 girls start school. Ten universities are established around the country, while barely one operated under the Taliban regime. By contrast, 4000 km of road have been completed in recent years. The most prominent project is a ring road that will connect the whole country. 17000 local communities are covered by school, health, road and water development projects through the government’s national solidarity programme. Over five million refugees have returned. The government's revenue has increased by a quarter only in the last year. Income per year the population has grown significantly. There are seven national television stations, a number of radio stations and an increasing pressure. About 150 cities today have mobile telephone networks and Internet services. About 60,000 former warriors have been disarmed and reintegrated into society. In total, almost 27 billion dollars have been made available from the international community. It includes both civil and military efforts. I know that even such numbers don't give a complete picture. Institutions are still weak. The quality of the services available is modest. Even many of those who have had a better life still live in poverty and difficult conditions. Therefore, humanitarian needs remain high. Freedom of expression and the press are under pressure, and in parts of the country journalists are working on life as an effort. The expectations of progress and peace continue to contrast with the realities of the even Afghans. But the illustrations I've picked up tell us that we're not facing a situation without points of light. The picture is complex. Progress is gradually becoming visible to Afghans in many parts of the country. They are beginning to see that the international and Afghan efforts produce results - and that for them in their daily lives. We also have to see this part of the picture. We often ask if the glass is half full or half empty. If Afghanistan I think the right thing is to say that the glass is being filled continuously, but that it leaks continuously. The challenge is to stop the leakage, and essentially we know where that source is. The situation in Afghanistan is often pictured by an uncoordinated, inadequate international community, a weak and partially corrupt Afghan leadership, and a well-organised Taliban uprising movement. We also have to nuance this description of reality. Yes, there is still too much lack of coordination in the international community, leading to a loss of time and resources. Yes, the Afghan government has insufficient competence and capacity, and there is a significant element of corruption. For Norway, it has been and is important to improve coordination and strengthen Afghan ownership. I'll come back to this. We should also have a nuanced and realistic image of the Taliban and other rebel movements. There can be no doubt that the security situation in the country is difficult and tense - nor has there been an increasing number of security incidents in the last year: while the number of such events exceeded 6,600 in 2006, it increased to 8,700 last year. That's clear numbers. They represent estimates that not only lead to the loss of life and the destruction of property but spread fear and anxiety for the future. But at the same time it's 70 pst. of these serious events occurred in 10 pst. of the districts: in the most vulnerable provinces in the south and east of the country. There has been an increase in other parts of the country, including the Kabul region. But in large parts of Afghanistan, the security situation remains unchanged. In order to finance its activities, the Taliban is now contributing to increased drug production. And so do several of the so-called warlords. The links between organised crime in the form of drug production and trafficking as the source of funding for rebel movements have become increasingly clear. It affects millions of people in the region and in Europe, including us in Norway. But also this picture has shades: the rebellion movement has suffered severe defeat in the last year and has suffered significant losses. A number of the most experienced field commanders have been killed. In several provinces, rebel leaders have felt compelled to place foreign extremists in command positions. It undermines the basis for local support. This is an assessment the UN in Afghanistan makes in its latest report to the Security Council. Furthermore, there has been a dialogue between Afghanistan and Pakistan. The presence of the Presidents of the two countries at the Peace Council last August was an important step. The meeting between them on 27 December 2007 in Islamabad was - on both sides - described as constructive. During my visit to Islamabad and Kabul three weeks ago, it was clear that the leaders of both countries recognize that there is a common interest in fighting the Taliban and other rebel movements. This is one of the reasons why the forthcoming elections in Pakistan are becoming so important, and that the new Pakistani leadership has the ability and strength to address this challenge. The Taliban and other rebel movements, such as Al Qaida and Hezb-e-Islami, also see that the international military presence is not impaired as a result of their activities. On the contrary, the number of international forces has increased in the last year, and the Afghan army is increasingly able to participate in and conduct operations. This point is crucial. Then we also have to nuance the term Taliban. What is commonly referred to as the Taliban is probably also a growing element of criminal elements, with activities related to drug production. These groups do not necessarily fully share the Taliban’s political and religious objectives, but they share the Taliban’s interest in preventing the deployment of functioning state institutions and infrastructure in the country. Although the number of attacks has continued to grow, the picture is in other words nuanced. We know that there are several backgrounds from the Taliban joining the established political processes in the country. We know President Karzai has opened up political dialogue. These are trends that we need to be aware of, and that we need to do to underpin. Let me then touch on some of the assumptions I think are central to our success. And let me add: in the international community and in dialogue with the Afghan authorities, we must conduct the debate on what it means to succeed. And it is also in the context of such discussions that a future exit strategy can be shaped, in other words, on how to meet what can be called concrete success criteria. I think it must be about, on the one hand, preventing Afghanistan from becoming a place of international terrorism again. We can't live with that. On the other hand, it must be about enabling Afghans to rule Afghanistan. It's a long-term problem. And in solving that problem, we have to take into account that Afghans will rule their country according to traditions and norms that may differ from ours. At the same time, we must maintain that human rights are universal and that human dignity is unique. Safety work is essential. If we are to succeed, military efforts must be continued. If we were to step down the international military engagement, we would weaken important and positive developments. We have to stick to our commitment. Afghans must be able to take - increasingly - responsibility for their own security, through their own army and their own police. Secondly, international development must be strengthened and coordinated better - and made visible in the name of the Afghans. Together, we must contribute to Afghan ownership and Afghan responsibility. It is not important whether a project carries a Norwegian or American flag. It is essential that it carries an Afghan flag. This will help to strengthen the confidence of the population in the country’s own elected leaders. Thirdly, and this is perhaps the most important thing: the political dimension of our overall effort needs to be reinforced. That has been said before, but it can be repeated: the solution to Afghanistan's problems is not military. It must exist politically. Building Afghan institutions at central level, province level, district level and local level. It is a question of strengthening the ability of the Afghan State to provide services to its people itself. It is a question of strengthening the legitimacy of the Afghan state. The population must perceive that their own government’s ‘footprint’ is clear and permanent, that it has a permanent presence that can be trusted by the population, for security and for basic services. As the Government sees it, it is essential to put more effort into building up the Afghans' own administration, their own institutions, based on the Afghans' own needs and their active participation - and let me add: to a greater extent compatible with Afghan traditions. Only in this way will the population dare to trust that the government of the country is able to care for their interests and turn away from the rebellion movements. In this area, the Afghan President has now taken decisions that can help reverse developments. Then the work of reconciliation of the Afghan government must be strengthened. My clear impression from the conversation with President Karzai - and other leaders - January 15th this year was that he himself is concerned about this. But he emphasises that the political reconciliation work, the work of reaching out a hand to those who want to reenter Afghan society, must be conducted under Afghan leadership and on Afghan premises. It is essential that this is respected. We're not going to negotiate with this kind of movement. The Afghans know the country best, and that's theirs. Understanding the political landscape requires an in-depth knowledge of ethnic, religious and social divisions, and their causes and background. That is why the Afghanisation of all efforts, civil and military, is so important. We're going to give these processes our full support. We're going to help where it's wanted and possible. The political solutions must be such as to bring the country forward political, economic and social solutions that bring us forward in respect of universal human rights and established democratic institutions, and solutions that can contribute to regional stability, and bring Afghanistan into the world community. There are enough elements that will interfere with such processes, both within and outside the range of the rebel movement, within and outside the borders of the country. Therefore, this must be treated with caution. This is an approach that is different from the one we know from some other areas of conflict. The importance of strengthening the political dimension of work is central to us. Then I feel that it is even further on the agenda of the Afghans themselves. In its last report to the UN General Assembly and the Security Council on Afghanistan in September 2007, the UN Secretary-General stressed the continued need for a coordinated military response to combat insurgent and terrorist movements. It is important to note this emphasis. The Secretary-General added that if we are to succeed, it requires a stronger commitment to local communities. This is also at the heart of Norwegian policy: success requires an integrated civil-military strategy, in which the political processes are strengthened. On the military side, only NATO can, through ISAF, provide the military component of such an overall strategy. The ISAF operation and its management by NATO have, as stated, a solid anchor fixture within the UN Security Council. It was the UN that asked NATO to take on the task. But NATO must also adapt its strategy to changing conditions and priorities on the ground. This is why there is now a major effort in the alliance to design a comprehensive political-military plan that captures developments from the last year. It shall be completed at the summit in Bucuresti in April this year. This work must be integrated into the wider efforts being made to shape a more effective global strategy for the whole of the international community, under Afghan leadership. Today, representatives from a number of contributing countries in Tokyo are meeting to continue working on an integrated approach adapted to these developments. Norway, together with the other Nordic countries, is actively involved in the design of this strategy. When NATO has gradually assumed greater responsibility for ISAF, this was in line with the wishes of the Security Council. In 2003, NATO assumed responsibility for the command and coordination of ISAF in agreement with the UN and Afghanistan. Each year, the UN Security Council has asked the Member States to make available their forces for this operation. Not later than 19 September 2007, through Resolution 1776, the Security Council states that the situation in Afghanistan is still a threat to peace and security in the world. The background for NATO's request to undertake this task is in several respects. Let me mention some of them: Firstly, in contrast to all other organisations, NATO has an established command and coordination system which enables predictability, efficiency and security of the strengths of demanding operations. Secondly, NATO has an established apparatus for generating strengths. Thus, the decision taken at the time has made a strong contribution to ensuring access to resources to ISAF. The military part of our overall efforts in Afghanistan will continue to be very demanding in the years to come. It will still have to be a Chapter VII operation in accordance with the Security Council’s assessment that the situation in the country poses a threat to international peace and security. Therefore, we must ensure that the willingness to participate among key contributors is not impaired. This will depend on whether the operation continues to have the command and coordination apparatus so important for the safety and operational capability of the forces. And we'll think of it this way. That's why it's essential that NATO has leadership. Let's not forget that ISAF today is something far more than just NATO and NATO countries. ISAF has 40 contributing countries from different continents, and where different religions are prevalent. Of these, 26 are NATO countries. ISAF consists of countries representing one fifth of the world’s nations. I don't think you'll find any other operation today that contains so many contributing countries, even though we could also want a larger element of forces from Muslim countries. So maybe you could've ideally wanted more participants from countries in the region. Thus, the situation of these countries is such that it has not been possible. Nor should we forget that forces from the nearest region could also have contributed to strengthening rather than weakening the potential for conflict. Then I would like to stress: ISAF, with its approximately 40,000 personnel, is the same size as NATO's force in Kosovo, despite the fact that Afghanistan is 65 times larger and far more unattainable. NATO continues to have 16 000 women and men in Kosovo, nine years after the end of the war. Security operations in this complicated context take time. Afghanistan will not be an exception. The mandate of ISAF is to assist the Afghan authorities in providing security to enable reconstruction and development. When military capacity is necessary, it is because movements such as the Taliban, Al Qaida and other groupings do not want that type of stability and reconstruction. They seek to undermine the country's authorities and force development on another track. The mandate of ISAF is to contribute to the security and stability of the country, to support the Afghan Government and to increase its influence outside Kabul, and to facilitate good governance and economic and social development. The mandate of the operation provides for the use of the necessary and proportionate means to achieve those objectives. One consequence of ISAF’s extension to the southern and eastern provinces in 2006 was that ISAF moved into areas where the Taliban and other rebel movements had been able to operate relatively freely until then. It created an increase in the fighting actions, as the expansion was met with resistance. It made it necessary to use the power resources operation so far had not taken up in other parts of the country. Then we must remember that there are Afghans who suffer the most when conducting military battles. However, it has also been demanding for those countries in ISAF that contribute to these areas and that have had to endure severe losses. It has happened that international forces have caused civilian losses. It has been addressed in strong order by President Karzai and by allies, including Norwegian authorities, within NATO. ISAF has established new guidelines to avoid such losses. There have been improvements in legislation here, and there have been results on the ground in terms of fewer such events. That underlined President Karzai when I met him in Kabul. It is against this background the Government's view that NATO must continue to have the leadership of the international military effort. I see nothing today that can rock that analysis. But then I will repeat: Norway wants a stronger UN involvement in Afghanistan. This is a view this government has forged for over two years. We have wanted a stronger UN central in Kabul. We have wanted a stronger UN around the country. And we have wanted a greater role for the UN in coordinating civil and political efforts. The UN itself has now initiated an internal debate on better coordination of international efforts by strengthening the UN mission in the country. Norway will continue to follow this discussion in the Security Council, and we will follow the implementation in Afghanistan. Where possible, we will assist the UN in meeting the expectations of Afghans. That is why we have also funded 16 positions in UNAMA to strengthen efforts to identify humanitarian needs and better coordinate humanitarian efforts. The United Nations has a lot of messed up. NATO's mandate is about security. But NATO cannot, and must not, build political institutions. That's where the United Nations has its point competence. Today, UNAMA has only about 220 international occupations. It has eight regional offices and nine provincial offices — 34 provinces in total. This is a result of what was the original philosophy of the United Nations in Afghanistan. Many people today think differently. A stronger UN presence from the outset could have improved the ability to meet the expectations of the population in a more coordinated way. I've given this situation description as a backdrop for how the government thinks about the future Norwegian involvement. Let me now get closer to the Norwegian contributions. They follow a continuity over the years. Norwegian policy is based on repeated discussions in Stortinget and consultations with the bodies of Stortinget. The plans for Norway’s military contribution for 2008 and 2009 are known and established. Let me briefly repeat the main elements: the government will concentrate its military contribution on the Faryab province in the north and the Kabul region. We are strengthening the stabilisation force in Norway in Meymaneh. This will strengthen the team's ability to patrol larger areas of the province, and it will safeguard the safety of the team in a situation where we are gradually withdrawing the reaction force from Mazar-e Sharif. It's the government's view that we now know this part of the country well. It is important to make use of this knowledge and contact with the local population in the area. At the same time, we must build on the confidence we have built up in relation to other actors, especially those engaged in civil reconstruction efforts. In March, when we send our special forces back to Kabul for an 18-month period, they will also be able to draw on the experience and knowledge of their last stay in 2007. Security in the capital is essential for the functioning of both Afghan authorities and the international community - both in Kabul and in the rest of the country. Therefore, this is an important contribution, especially during a period when Kabul is exposed to a more demanding safety situation. During my meeting with the commander-in-command of ISAF, General McNeill, on 15 January of this year, he also expressed great recognition both for the work of our special forces in this region during the previous stay, and for the fact that the Government has now decided to send them back for a longer period. It is continuity in the Norwegian military contribution. That's the way it should be. Continuity is important for knowledge of local conditions, for trust between the different actors and therefore for the effectiveness of the strengths in the performance of their tasks. And that's a demanding task. We learned that during the previous stay of the special forces, and we have experienced this during stabilisation missions at the border between the Faryab and Baghdis provinces last harvest. At the same time, Norway strengthens its contribution to the training of the Afghan army. With 50 instructors, we'll help to enable Afghans to take an increasingly large part of the problems themselves. It is the Afghans' own wish, and that is our wish. It merges into what must be a red thread in our overall strategy. Military efforts must continue to support the civil without becoming a direct part of it. It's important. Military efforts and civil work have different roles and tasks. This must be in the interests of the protection needs of Afghan civilian and auxiliary workers, and in order to maximise the overall effort based on the mandate and competence of the various actors. Their tasks shall be coordinated but not mixed. Let me then mention the civil effort. Norway is one of the largest contributors to the civil construction of Afghanistan. In 2006, our civil contribution amounted to 415 million. kr, and in 2007 it increased to about 500 million. kr. In this context, Norwegian non-governmental organisations contribute with important humanitarian efforts and development efforts. There is increasing competence in Afghanistan in Norwegian organisations and trade unions, as I was illustrated in a meeting with many of them before my visit to Kabul in January. The government has now decided to increase our civil effort to 750 million. kr in 2008. That's an increase of about 50 pst. in relation to 2007. It's an important political signal. It underlines the will we have to strengthen development cooperation and political efforts, as well as our military contributions. The last year went about 20 pst. of the total Norwegian civil effort to the Faryab province, where Norway leads the stabilisation team, and where we have gathered a lot of local knowledge. That's why it's natural to still bet heavily here. A large part of this contribution is devoted to the construction of the schoolwork in the province. When the Afghan Minister of Education Haneef Atmar visited Norway last November, he said the following about this effort: their soldiers allow our children to go to school. In this way he expressed in a simple way the relationship that exists between civil and military action. Without security, no development. And I'll add: without development, no lasting security. Together with Minister of Education Atmar, I signed an agreement on further cooperation in the education sector. Together, we build schools in several provinces. In Faryab we have committed ourselves to building 82 schools by the end of the year, and during my visit in January I should have laid the foundation stone for school number. 41. It is a work we do in close cooperation with the Ministry of Education. So we want to move on. The Province needs a total of 220 schools. So once the first stage is over, it's going to be 140. It is our intention to work with Afghan authorities until this goal is achieved. It's a work that's not done by or through our stabilisation team. But it happens in the shelter of their efforts. Another key area to which we have given priority is rural development. This is important in itself for poverty reduction. Here we are working within the Afghan development programme. Projects are based on advice from local leaders and in dialogue with central authorities. Thus, we not only help to provide water, sanitation, market access, microfinance, roads and other services, we also help to bring local structures together and to develop some form of local democracy. We create local ownership and help to strengthen links between local communities and central authorities. We contribute to the development of local communities, and we contribute in a way to bringing the country together. I can add here that there are precisely places where both local governance is strengthened and links with central authorities are developed, that international efforts to overcome drug production and drug trafficking have the opportunity to deliver results. A third main element of our civil contribution is humanitarian aid. Home-turned refugees and internally displaced persons need protection, assistance and support. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees is doing an important job here that we support. Mining and support for mine victims are humanitarian efforts with long-term positive effects. Health efforts are going to increase, among others. through the Red Cross and the Red Crescent and their local associations. We demand that our humanitarian partners cooperate with national and local authorities. And we have been at the forefront of strengthening the United Nations' coordinating role in the humanitarian field. In all our efforts, women's rights, roles and needs will be central. The international community is also bound here by Security Council Resolution 1325 on Women, Peace and Security. Norway’s involvement in Afghanistan shall include intensified efforts to strengthen women’s political and economic rights and participation. The relationship between safety and development is evident. I think the relationship between security and the board is equally important -- yes, perhaps even more important. This Security Council Resolution 1776 on Afghanistan confirms that the challenges in Afghanistan are complex and closely interrelated, and that lasting progress in security, governance and development as well as the cross-cutting issue of action against drug trafficking are mutually reinforcing. In this field, the international community has started late. The challenge is great. This is an area in which I believe Norway plays a prominent role, in close cooperation with the Afghan authorities. We've been early in focusing on this, and we're ready to step further up. Together with Minister of Education Atmar and other government members, Norway is now increasingly committed to the development of Afghan ministries and institutions in Kabul, in the provinces and in the districts. Here we go. The aim is to improve the ability of Afghans to provide services to their own population, to create loyalty to central government and thus to bind the country together. The Afghan capacity must be strengthened. To date, civil construction and administration have taken place to a large extent through contracted foreign expertise, which will soon leave the country. There have been short-term and expensive purchases of expertise, which have left little competence and learning. This use of foreign experts and companies, often channelled through military stabilisation teams, also has another negative side: it does not contribute to bringing the population of the communities and the government of Kabul closer together. However, by building up Afghan expertise, competence and capacity, the Afghan government is able to expand its authority and deliver services and results that are made visible around the country. In this way the regular Afghans can know that she and he can rely better on their own government, give it support, and show loyalty. This is a multi-item work. By supporting the new Civil Service Institute, Norway is seeking to improve the skills of those already employed in ministries and provincial administrations. By supporting the establishment of the National Institute of Management and Administration, we will train students who can be recruited to the public and private administration of the capital, provinces and districts. According to the plan, this institute shall be opened to students next month. The aim of this project, where Norway has played an active role in the design of the concept, is to bring 3,000 students - half young women - into the 34 provinces. We want to strengthen the government's presence and counting around the country and the level of competence of the new administration. We want to link different parts of the country more closely by creating new networks of young people from different provinces, and we want - through public administration - to set an example of women's role in the new Afghan society. Norway has also been involved in the design of another central board project that is currently under way. During my last visit to Kabul last January, I discussed the possibility of establishing a programme to create closer links between the President and his government, the provincial authorities and local management structures. Last November, the President set up his own local government directorate, as a follow-up to those talks. The Directorate shall ensure the strengthening of the management of the provinces and the development of a closer network of governments, provinces and local communities. This is an ambitious project. The basic idea is to establish structures at local level that can take greater responsibility for the governance, security and development of local communities in cooperation with central authorities. If this succeeds, it will be an important tool to demonstrate to the public that the government is able to provide basic services in accordance with the needs and priorities of the communities. Norway has funded the launch of this Directorate. During my visit in January, we agreed on how to support projects in the provinces. Our strong commitment to governance can only have the effect that we want, if we are also prepared to be clear to Afghan authorities at the following point: they must show greater ability and willingness to fight corruption in their own institutions. They must understand that if they do not show such will, it will weaken our ability and will to help and succeed. It is encouraging that the new Local Government Directorate seems to address the problem of corruption, but efforts will only succeed if the top authorities show their full support for the work. It assured President Karzai of me during his visit to Kabul. We will follow this promise carefully. In this context, the police and judicial services play a central role. This is perhaps where it remains the most, both in the Afghan and international efforts. Since 2003–04, Norway has had police and judicial staff in Afghanistan assisting in building up competences to strengthen the development of the country’s rule of law. This effort will be continued. The strength well assists the Special Group/Court of Drug Affairs in Kabul and also has prison advisors who contribute to improvements in prisons in Meymaneh. A significant part of this part of Norwegian civil service in Afghanistan is the police project NORAF, which was established in 2003. A total of 18 officials are now stationed in Kabul and Meymaneh, and the main field of action is assistance to build up a civil Afghan police force. It also aims to phase Norwegian police officers into the EU police operation, which is under construction. Good governance is also about achieving economic growth and good social distribution. Afghanistan has oil and gas resources, but experience from too many countries is that poor management of natural resources leads to conflicts and does not benefit the population. For this reason, Norway has entered into cooperation with the Afghan authorities to establish a framework for good management in the oil and gas sector. It is about establishing a law and transferring competences to governments and the private sector. This is a work valued by President Karzai and other Afghan authorities who want to ensure sound national management of resources. Competence building is not just about strengthening the ability of authorities to provide services and security. It is also about supporting civil society. Authorities need critical voices and drivers to strengthen respect for human rights and equality, and the population needs channels of participation. For this reason, Norway provides support, inter alia: to the Afghan independent human rights Commission, which makes significant efforts to report on and protect human rights in the country. Afghanisation is a key element of Norwegian policy - and gradually a key element for discussions both in NATO and in the UN - both in terms of security, governance and development. We have to do our best to get into the Afghans' own perspective. We have to try to see the challenges from Kabul and not from Oslo. Their perspectives now go in two directions: they look inward towards the provinces, districts and communities of their own country, and they look beyond the wider region of the country being part of. We want to play a role in both of these contexts. However, the main focus will be to strengthen the political processes within the country, to build loyalty between central authorities and local communities, to contribute to pluralism and to strengthen the political reconciliation process. The regional perspective is crucial for the ability to achieve stability and growth. And then the relationship with Pakistan is very central. We must help to strengthen the understanding that stability in Afghanistan and Pakistan is interrelated. The two countries have a strong common interest in combating extremist movements in border regions. It's my clear impression that the understanding of this is increasing. At the same time, dialogue with Iran and the Central Asian countries must be strengthened. Iran should not be interested in an unstable Afghanistan - and especially not in a strengthened Taliban movement. Most drug exports today go through quite open borders in the south, between Afghanistan on the one hand and Iran and Pakistan on the other. That is why a clear Iranian policy is also important. We must avoid - from both the Iranian and the Western sides - dialogue about and with Afghanistan being disrupted by the conflict around the Iranian nuclear programme. In the longer term, closer regional cooperation is also important for the economic growth of the region. A stable Afghanistan will enable the development of roads and energy pipelines that will benefit the whole region. The efforts of the international community have long been too fragmented. Resources have not been used well enough, and time has been lost. Therefore, Norway has taken on a leading role in promoting better coordinated efforts under Afghan leadership. That is why we have asked the United Nations to strengthen its efforts as a coordinating body. And so Norway took the initiative to set up a UN position, a special mission with extended powers to coordinate the international community and to be the President's interlocutor on behalf of the international community. There is a growing consensus today on the need for a more coordinated and holistic approach. But those who call for coordination must also be willing to be coordinated. We must coordinate our efforts within the wider international community in a national Afghan perspective. But we also need to coordinate our efforts among smaller groups of countries where it is natural. After the last visit to Afghanistan, I have called for closer Nordic coordination of efforts. This applies in the north, where four of the Nordic countries are represented, but it also applies in other parts of the country. I see it as particularly important that the population of neighbouring provinces perceives that the efforts of one province do not differ significantly from those of the other. Therefore, we should consider whether there is a possible division of labour that can ensure parallel development in the provinces in which the Nordic countries have their main involvement. However, there should also be room for wider Nordic coordination on, inter alia, governance projects where the Nordic countries traditionally feel the same. During a Nordic meeting in Oslo last week, we continued this work with a view to presenting concrete proposals for such cooperation at political level in a short time. Let me sum up: we are present in Afghanistan militarily through ISAF to ensure the security of the country. We must ensure that Afghanistan does not once again become a place of international terrorism. Afghanization is an important key to our efforts. Afghans must be able to secure security and control Afghanistan. We have to take into account that it will be according to traditions that can differ from ours. Based on our contribution to security through our participation in ISAF, we strengthen development cooperation and contribute humanitarian aid to the building of basic services such as education and health. In order for Afghan authorities themselves to be able to provide these services, we are building Afghan institutions that can give the Government wider footholds. To bind the country together, we support a reconciliation policy that can offer those who give up their resistance, an opportunity to participate in building the country. In order to help the entire international community act together and provide the Afghans with their own leadership, we are working for enhanced international coordination under Afghan leadership. Together, these elements constitute an overall strategy and a coordinated plan in close coordination with the rest of the international community. It is not about choosing the political, civil or humanitarian dimension rather than the military dimension. It is about finding the right balance between the different components. Today, the task is to highlight the political challenges. That's what the Government will contribute to. Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to express our great recognition for all the Norwegian women and men involved in Afghanistan - through our military contribution, through the foreign service, in the justice and police sector, through development efforts and in humanitarian organisations. The effort is demanding and presents a high risk. That's why they deserve our total support.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1156	The President will propose that the distribution be followed by a debate, in accordance with Paragraph 34a(a) of the Storting Rules of Procedure. At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the Stortinget depart from the second paragraph of Section 34a, so that the maximum speaking time for posts from the main speakers from each party group and from members of the Government is set to 10 minutes and for other speakers to 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to three sequences with replies from the main speakers of the parties and up to five lines with replies from members of the Government. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1168	Let me first thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a very thorough and concrete presentation, and at the same time thank you for this opportunity to discuss the situation and developments in Afghanistan and Norway's efforts in that country. This is our largest military foreign activity, and eventually our greatest civil and humanitarian involvement in another country. The situation in Afghanistan and our efforts in that country should therefore be subject to continuous evaluation and debate. Following the tragic events associated with the Serena Hotel attack during the foreign minister's visit to Afghanistan, there has been a debate on the planning and implementation of this visit. These events have made it natural for you to review all pages of your visit. I am pleased that the Government immediately started working on such a review, and that it was also made known and clear that the Storting would be briefed on the results of the review when these were carried out. This briefing will take place tomorrow. The debate today should therefore focus on the situation in Afghanistan and on Norwegian and international measures and strategies in that country. It is good that the Government has a broad approach to the challenges in Afghanistan and that the Minister of Foreign Affairs gives a nuanced description of the situation and developments in the country. The public debate on Afghanistan, both in Norway and in other countries, has tended to become black-and-white and be emboldened by blatant opinions - that one either focuses on what is going well, or that one places all the emphasis on the negative trends. The truth is nuanced. There are both positive and negative developments in Afghanistan. I don't mean, however, that one can judge the situation in the country today without bearding to history. Afghanistan has more or less been at war or civil war for over 30 years. These wars have caused great material destruction, the infrastructure is non-existent or in a very poor constitution, the wars have hindered the economic development and construction of the necessary business life, and - of course - 30 years of war have marked the people strongly. The Taliban took power in the 1990s and introduced a terror regime that has rarely seen its face. This regime persecuted its own people, killed and plundered and broke consistently all human rights. Afghanistan was a country in internal resolution, with total collapse in state institutions, health services and education systems. The Taliban regime was a threat to Afghanistan's own population, millions were driven away. The situation in Afghanistan also contributed strongly to destabilising the situation in the region. It was also a host country, a town of refuge and a training camp for international terrorism, which eventually developed into a threat to large parts of the world. The direct background of their presence in Afghanistan was the attack on the World Trade Center on 11 September 2001 - a terrorist act that could be traced back to Afghanistan. Today’s presence of international forces, including the Norwegians, is the result of a unanimous decision by the UN Security Council and an invitation from the legally elected government of Afghanistan. The international security force ISAF was led by the UN in the early years. NATO was then asked by the UN to take over the management of this operation. In other words, NATO is in Afghanistan on behalf of the United Nations. It is important to have the close history back when assessing both the current situation and our actions in Afghanistan. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out, there has been a great deal of positive happening in Afghanistan. Today the country has a elected parliament, a elected president, and it has our local elections. Even though there is still a major shortage in school and health care, millions today are getting an offer they didn't have a few years ago. While very few children and young people received training under the Taliban, the situation today is fortunately different. Still, new schools are being opened, and teaching girls is no longer banned or life threatening. In the case of road and water supply infrastructure, investments that were not possible a few years ago are currently being made. Refugees are returning, and the economy is growing. Media has begun to function again, and one has an ageing cultural life. So there are positive developments in the country, but, as the Foreign Minister pointed out, there are also negative features. In particular, this is the case for the insurance situation. Unfortunately, there is a growth in terrorist acts and in military estimates. The Taliban and other groupings seem to have gained greater power and excitement. Drug production, trafficking and organised crime also appear to be growing. In other words, it's a broken image we see of developments in the country. What is clear is that there is still a long way to go before the situation has stabilised. The aim is for Afghanistan to become a functioning society, with functioning institutions that the Afghans control themselves. I fully agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs when he says that the important thing now is to ‘afghanise’ the processes that are taking place in the country, so that Afghanistan and the Afghan people themselves have a relationship with what is happening. But I think the international community must be prepared for this to take time, and for many years there will be a need for a great international effort in the country, both military and civil. There are no simple solutions, and I think we're wise to admit that no one is sitting with the finite fasit or the only right solution. Scream safety is what we need least, and in my view, we need to approach the challenges with a great deal of audacity. We should probably all have seen that there was a less need for military presence, and that we would rather use completely required means for civil action than for military action. Unfortunately, I am pretty sure that without a large military presence a civil reconstruction would be impossible. If the international forces were taken out of the country, I am absolutely sure that a new civil war would break out, and that many of the positive results we have achieved would be lost. And once again, it would be the civilian population that was the great loser. In my view, the last estimates and terrorist acts show it. It is important to bear in mind that these are acts that primarily affect civilian Afghan citizens, who are involved in and prevent normalisation in the country. On the other hand, it has long been clear that a military effort alone will not solve the challenges facing Afghanistan. It is therefore very positive that the government will now escalate the civil effort in the country, and that Norway will now spend about 750 million. kr for civil purposes. I hope this effort will also be a spur to other contributors, so that they increase their efforts in the civil field. It is important that the smooth Afghans experience a positive development in the country. It is also important that government institutions get economic muscles to do their job. It is important to build these institutions, and it will be important to increase the legitimacy of these institutions in Afghan society and in the Afghan population. However, financial resources are not enough. It is important that these are applied to the right actions and as effectively as possible. I would like to give my full support to what the Foreign Minister says about the need for coordination of efforts and for an even stronger response to corruption in Afghan society. Of course, if these institutions are to function, a transfer of competence will be decisive, in addition to money, at least for a transitional period. This has been a great welcome in the Great Britain about the policy we have pursued vis-à-vis Afghanistan. That was the case under the previous government, and that is the case under this government. I hope that today's debate will confirm that that is the case today. The Labour Party joins in the priorities and strategy of the Foreign Minister, and I hope that it will also do the rest of the Storting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1200	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1203	The Norwegian effort in Afghanistan in the case of soldiers and the civilians present, there's no disagreement about, I hope, it's just very good. We have to back it up on everything we can, as the representative Akselsen says. But it is also important that we not only use military forces for military purposes, we must also use military forces to support the humanitarian efforts, which become so important in time. The only thing the Progress Party disagrees with is the disposal of the soldiers. We think we should have a greater strength in the south. Jan Egeland, Director of the NUPI and former State Secretary for the Workers' Party, said: ‘The so-called attack war in Afghanistan is absolutely necessary. Because it is impossible to distinguish between offensive and defensive warfare. The soldiers cannot sit and wait for the Taliban to move forward. They must meet with overwhelming strength.’ Does the representative Akssen agree with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1217	First of all, I am very pleased with the support that the Progress Party is now expressing. It means that there is a mass mass behind what is the government's policy in this area. When it comes to the disposal of the Norwegian forces, it has been the subject of debate in this Chamber several times. We think we've disposed of the strengths in the way that gives the best result. We are now stepping up the number of Norwegian soldiers, so that they can also be involved and contribute more actively in Kabul and thus ensure the ability of the authorities to function in the area. Of course, Norwegian forces must be involved in what is the total effort of ISAF. We believe that Norway has always set up and been an important contributor to a more peaceful situation in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1226	I believe that the statement we have just heard provides an excellent basis for finding that there is a broad consensus on our involvement in Afghanistan, and on which the Akssen has been involved: it has passed under this government, and it existed under the previous government. I'm glad that that's still the situation. Not least through the reality expressed by the foreign minister, such a basis has been formed. But there is still the question that was just raised by the representative Width. I agree with the Akselsen when he says it is important not to use slip safety. But a sloping certainty about what you shouldn't consider is exactly what the Soria Moria statement with its limitations is all about. Does Akselsen not agree that in 2008 this restriction appears to be increasingly irrelevant and dictated by Norwegian domestic policy rather than the need in Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1233	On the contrary, I would say that the Soria Moria declaration is also very far-sighted in this area. There are no limits to the agreement that the government party agreed on when this government was formed, which prevents Norway and Norway from taking the decisions we want and which we see are necessary in relation to Afghanistan. When it comes to military presence from Norway, it's based on the size of Norway and the military resources we have at our disposal, there's no reason to say that we haven't done our job, and that we haven't done what we wanted. Nor can I see that there should be any restrictions on the basis of which this government is founded, in order to continue an active policy in Afghanistan both civilly and militarily.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1240	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1244	We are aware that it is tomorrow that the government will inform about the events surrounding the terrorist attack on Serena Hotel on January 14. We will therefore not comment on this event especially today, nor take into account the consequences of this event in relation to further follow-up. We will return to this after the meeting of the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee tomorrow. First of all, let me say that we have received a very good report from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. That's clear speech. There is nothing in this overall analysis and strategy that is not shared by the Progress Party. The situation description is good and realistic. The desire for a deghanisation of the work of the international community is important. The differences between us are primarily related to the restrictions imposed on Norwegian military sent to Afghanistan, and sometimes we will also disagree on the extent of Norwegian military participation. Last fall, 60 pst. by the Afghans in a poll that they were positive to the foreign military presence. Only 16 pst. was negative. Our soldiers and others are there after the invitation of the Afghan government and have a solid UN mandate in their backs. So there's no enemy occupying occupying force that's engaged in an aggressive attack war, as some claim. This is important to underline in order to understand the framework under which we and other countries operate in Afghanistan. We choose to participate both militarily and civilly to change the course in Afghanistan for the better. We put a lot of political, human and economical effort into success. We share the broad view that success requires both civil and military action. Both parts and a broad approach to the task are necessary, and we are pleased that many actors see the civil part as important and perhaps increasingly important. But to believe that the military can be stepped down as a result of this becomes dangerous and leads nowhere. Any weakness, slowdown and uncertainty in the NATO-led operation will be exploited to the full by the enemy. Therefore, the first bids are to succeed in reconciling forces, investing sufficiently and intensifying military operations in line with the adopted strategy. To date, too many countries have failed to set up well enough, and the countries that make up it are imposing restrictions that are not necessarily militaryly effective. Geographical constraints and other constraints appear to focus more on the domestic policy debate than on the reality of Afghanistan. Norway is not alone in such restrictions. It doesn't make the situation any better. I am happy to meet those who believe that these restrictions bring us closer to solving the security situation in Afghanistan. If we don't bet what's required, too many Afghans who are currently sitting on the fence will bet on the Taliban elements, not because they agree with the Taliban's policy, but because they can't afford not to. Once we have chosen to enter this country to free it from the Taliban, we must at least try to do the job completely. It is important to analyse everything we do in detail in Afghanistan, and constantly seek to succeed better than we do today. However, the problem of suicide bombers and lack of security can be solved by focusing solely on civil assistance or on a stronger role for the UN or negotiations with the Taliban is rhetoric for those who are unwilling to bet on what is required in the military. Now I would like to reiterate that the approach to Afghanistan must be broad and have an agenda that contains many elements, and few things should be excluded if there is hope for an improved security situation. But it's kind of naive to think that we can replace arms power with something else. Unfortunately, a ground solution in Afghanistan requires ground soldiers in Afghanistan, and also not just aircraft that drop bombs against more or less well-defined targets. This is the reality, and that's what we have to deal with. We should like it to be different. But something similar at an end in Afghanistan cannot come without NATO reaching out to the extremes in order to jointly provide the necessary forces to solve the problem. That is why we welcome the signals from the Government about NATO's leading role and the importance of the military contribution. We hope all the parties in the Government will be involved and underline this. As I said, there must be a parallel focus on many other elements, such as the development of the ability of the Afghan authorities to govern the country, attempts to stop negative elements from moving freely across borders from neighbouring countries and efforts to combat poverty and development. This requires the necessary coordination and ability to find channels for assistance that provide the hope that the civilian population needs. The human rights situation in Afghanistan was hopeless and tragic under the Taliban, but even today it is difficult, and sometimes I would say it is barbaric. We must expect the international community to take this into account and hold the Afghan authorities responsible for what is happening. We are fighting in Afghanistan for a more humane society than under the Taliban, and then it's important to stick to some principles. Otherwise, it may be difficult to motivate all those who are somehow committed to a change in Afghanistan. The Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed ‘afghanistan’ in his statement, and we agree with this. But in such a demanding process, we should also be able to make demands. But if we are to be able to make demands credible, and if the Afghans are to listen, we must show sufficient willingness to be burdened and broken with the country over time. Then we have to show that we are ready to meet this serious security challenge, and that we are consistent and long-term in our commitment. Only then can we expect most Afghans to give us the trust required in a partnership. Only then can we be credible in saying something about what we do not accept from Afghan courts and authorities. We notice that the presentation also draws up the regional perspective. This cannot be underestimated. Whether developments in Pakistan are moving in a direction that favours developments in Afghanistan is an open question for us. Iran was mentioned and is a factor that cannot be overlooked. The role of Uzbekistan is important and, in relation to drug trafficking, traffic through, in particular, Tajikistan needs to be severely slowed down. We have a Norwegian diplomatic focus on Pakistan and Iran. Whether we are sufficiently present in Uzbekistan, Tajikistan and other neighbouring countries, I am more uncertain about this, and an attempt to stabilise the situation in Afghanistan requires a broad approach. We spend a lot of money inside Afghanistan. Perhaps some more resources and energy can be used in a regional approach? Debate on our commitment and the whole situation in Afghanistan is important. But when the course is strung out, and we're in the middle of a difficult situation, it's asked how clever it is to tighten legs under your own strategy and policy. This is exploited by all those who do not want us to succeed in Afghanistan. No one shall and can stop important debates, but everyone has a responsibility to figure out with himself and his own party what is appropriate time and place. I believe it is legitimate to oppose military engagement in Afghanistan, but it is not fruitful to be both against and for. When I've chosen to talk more about the military than the civil, it's not because the civil aid is less important, but because we agree in this area. Military engagement is more controversial and is constantly being attacked. That is why the Foreign Minister's presentation today was so important because it gave the clear message that is needed. The Minister of Foreign Affairs could have chosen a different language, a somewhat vaguer language. He didn't have to emphasize NATO's leadership role as he did. The fact that he did it is important, and it deserves all sorts of support inside and outside the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1272	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1275	I thought the most important thing about this post was that it confirmed that the Progress Party supports the Government's strategy in relation to Afghanistan. Of course, I am very happy about that. I also think it's important, and increases the ability to close, that there's as wide a stir as possible in the Storing. I am also pleased that Høglund underlines the need for a broad approach to the strategies used in Afghanistan, and not least that he emphasises the need for increased civil action here. This means that in the case of Afghanistan, the Progress Party has a slightly different approach from the others in such conflicts, where they are usually very skeptical about spending money on civil reconstruction, money for assistance, for the upgrading of organisations, institutions, etc. Does this admission to Afghanistan mean that the Progress Party now has a new approach when it comes to assistance also in other types of conflicts?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1280	It is true that since we started to involve ourselves in Afghanistan after 11 September 2001, the Progress Party has supported the initiatives and actions, not least on the civil side, undertaken by both this and the previous government. This is important and correct for us. We have our policies in relation to the long-term development assistance in general, and that is what the representative, Aksensen, refers to, where we do not share the views of the political majority otherwise. That is a policy that we stand by. The situation in Afghanistan is different in many areas. There are similar examples in which we are also involved around the world, and our commitment to emergency aid and disaster response is one that we stand firm. I do not understand that the situation we have in Afghanistan was going to raise the kind of questions that the representative Akselsen is asking. I don't recognize myself in that description.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1285	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1288	There's no doubt that our involvement in Afghanistan is one of the most demanding things we've gone into. It is therefore very satisfactory to record that the foreign minister’s statement now provides a good basis for broad agreement on this involvement. Not least, I think it was valuable that his perception of reality provides a good basis for this broad consensus. I am of those who on a number of occasions have had the pleasure of discussing Afghanistan, among other things. with the representatives of the SV, and must be able to note that very many of the issues I face in these debates, only to a very modest extent, have been reflected in the post we have now heard. There is a post that is thus held on behalf of the entire Government, thereby effectively limiting SV’s dual communication capabilities. It's satisfying. I must also say I am happy to hear the opinion poll that was published this morning, which says that it is not only here in the Chamber, but also outside the Chamber that there is solid support for the policy being pursued. In this, there are important signals - partly to those of our foreign forces, who make an excellent effort, and who have appeared in Norwegian public opinion in a very reliable way. It is good that they thus see the support for their work. It is also very important in relation to Afghan society because it is important to communicate that our commitment is of a long-term nature. There is no doubt that the Taliban has returned several places, put community under pressure, asked many individuals to the question: Will the Taliban one day come back and get control again in my area? If there's any concern about this, it's obvious that many will, for good reason, want to sit on the fence. Just by having a long-term policy, we create a guarantee that we will be there, will help the Afghan government, and in that way will also help people to put their support where it should be. So our task is not as difficult as it really would have been otherwise. This long-termity is necessary. Now I belong to those who believe it has been useful with as extensive Afghanistan debates as we have had. I think it has helped to clarify the issues. At the same time, it is important precisely in a debate situation that there is also a clear leadership that tells of this long-term nature. I must honestly admit that, with the exception of those who have had direct professional responsibility in the government, I have probably missed this clear leadership from time to time. That's why I was very happy to hear the Prime Minister's New Year speech this year, which was exemplaryly ready. Yes, my reaction was--at last. In that word there is praise, but also criticism. We should not in any way be ashamed of the extent of the Norwegian military effort. I think in many ways we're stretching our forces about as far as it's possible to stretch them. It's important to remember that it limits our ability to take on other assignments. If a competitive situation arises between the Afghanistan mission and other missions, Afghanistan must take the lead. I hope the government remembers it when it's considering a possible engagement with Haiti. But what's the problem, and where the disagreement still exists, is the constraints we've imposed on our forces. I still think it's an important issue, and I think we have to take over that if we don't win the fight all over Afghanistan, we won't win at all. That means we have to be there longer than we would otherwise have been. We must therefore be aware that a reasonable burden-sharing is necessary. But as I said -- with the forces we've put at our disposal, Norway has nothing to be ashamed of. I believe, on the other hand, that we would have a stronger voice in relation to other NATO member states if we had not had our own, home-scraper limitations. I see from the debate that there are many who may be a little surprised that this has become such a long and so difficult commitment. I guess I share some of that surprise, but the question is, should we really be surprised? In a country so far down on the prosperity list and with such a traumatic history, we must not be surprised that it takes time, and at least we must not be caught by our own Western impatience and our own Western concepts that tell us that if things are not up and standing in five or six years, we will lose patience. It can't be like that. Nor should we be surprised that the Taliban, after they were turned back in the first place, does necessarily find that they will be in their mountain caves forever, but that they have looked for an opportunity to come back with new forms of action, as they must have done. It is not as some claim in the public debate, that if it had not been for the ISAF and Operation Enduring Freedom to have turned back with relatively strong funds from time to time, yes, this would not have happened. It is not that our forces have provoked this. I think it's clear that here we are facing groups with a strong ideological commitment, who have seen the possibility of coming back, and of course this opportunity seizes. It tells us nothing but that these things take time, and that it's going to wave back and forth. We need to remember what a Taliban regime really is. And I thought the Foreign Minister exemplaryly summed this up. You have to remember this when you talk about the Taliban. It affects me, from the public debate, as if too many feel the Taliban are basically good boys, and that only we are talking to them properly, this is going quite well, and then there's going to be some sort of reconciliation in Afghanistan. I don't think you should expect it. We know how their warfare kills. Our task is to make the central authorities succeed, and to make both military and civil capabilities available for this. We agree on what is said about civil reconstruction, but record that we have had an intermediate phase in which some in Norwegian debate have believed that this is almost a kind of new idea that has come. It's not. It's through reconstruction and civil effort that we started the whole process. We remember the Bonn process, we remember all the donor country conferences, and we can ask ourselves why it hasn't really been better. At least what we can say is that this is not NATO's fault. NATO has never had total responsibility. It has been limited to ISAF, which has been in many ways the most coherent and successful contribution of the international community in Afghanistan. So when we talk about this gravity shift, it's completely wrong that it has a bridge to ISAF. It can't have. But that now it's important to put more here, I think it's quite clear. At the same time, let's warn against believing that we can almost buy into a victory in Afghanistan. It's going to be hard, and it's going to take time. We must therefore ensure that assistance is directed to strengthen the authority of the central authorities, build up their power and demonstrate to the local population that it is cooperation between the central authorities and the international community that creates tangible and positive changes in their daily reality. Not all assistance will meet these criteria. Then I fully agree with what is said about the need for the UN to have a stronger role. They have had the opportunity to do so, and it was also those who were partly behind the London Conference two years ago. I have also noticed that the proposal of the United Nations Coordinator, Paddy Ashdown, was rejected by the Afghan authorities. It tells us that there are limits to the extent to which the Afghan authorities want to accept this strong international hand. I hope that the Afghan authorities will listen to advice that such a stronger hand is needed, and that they will accept more of these advice, because it is precisely because the Afghan Government has not fully fulfilled its coordinating task, that the need for the UN to do more of this job has risen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1322	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1325	The ISAF team was established by the UN Security Council on 20 December 2001, and there is agreement in the Stortinget, as we have heard today, that the ISAF forces are necessary for the security of Afghanistan. There is also agreement that we should participate, and there is agreement that NATO should lead them. Now I listened to what the representative said about civil assistance, because peace can only be won through civil assistance. Petersen was ready that this was right-wing to be on. But will the Right be involved in ensuring that civil assistance remains stable and may also increase in the coming years, either in opposition or in position?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1332	Only for the perception of reality: both civil and military assistance is necessary. None of the items can be excluded. Without that we fail. I just want to remind you that civil assistance has been an important part of our Afghanistan exposure all along, including when the Right put in government. We never meant that one side should be more important. We actually started with civil assistance before the military. So if we're going to write the history of the Bondevik government in this area, it's probably the civil aid that appears to be more visible than the military, because it came to the end. The fact that we are going to support these measures is quite clear. We think this is very right to do. And we must not fall into the trap that we believe we can afford to win in Afghanistan. This is going to be long and problematic.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1341	The representative, Petersen, referred to as ‘home necrosis restrictions’. They are in case of reasonable value-enhancing, these ‘home-snailed restrictions’. I don't know one country that doesn't have a restriction on its participation in Afghanistan. Even the Bonn agreement clearly defines what other than the Afghan national army could be exposed to. So there's today's situation, where the great majority hangs around the original ISAF mandate, stabilisation and reconstruction. We see from the debate that U.S. Secretary of Defense Robert Gates clearly squanders Canada and the Netherlands because they are not active enough in the war. Then we have the great plural, where Norway took part, which drives reconstruction and stabilisation. What is the Right Position of this? Does a Gates support that one will have a more active action war, or can one more think of a scheme where one has even greater respect for the humanitarian space, and thus give more room for the civil?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1348	First, to the basic premises, that is to say the home slump. I fully agree with Jacobsen that very many countries have such limitations, and that is also one of NATO's main problems. That's why we don't use our capabilities as efficiently as we could have done, and that's why it will take longer to solve the problem. I'm aware that SV is an enthusiastic follower of some of these constraints, but the price we're then paying is that we're going to be in Afghanistan longer than we would otherwise do. I'm surprised that SV wants to do that. When it comes to how the warfare is conducted, first of all, I would like to say that it is not the Storting that is the day-to-day leaders of, but I would like to say that I am comfortable with the way Norway has done it. That means it's a soft way, but we sometimes have to go harder to do. We have done the same thing, and we will have to do it in the future. It's not that the Taliban disappears into the ass, just that we don't take them hard.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1363	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1366	I would also like to thank the Foreign Minister for a very thorough and very good account, who is carrying out a bid for new steps that might perhaps help to save Afghanistan. Norway's commitment is part of the big international picture -- what is being done or not done has great consequences. I would like to stress that what we are doing - our contributions - must constantly be based on knowledge of Afghanistan, knowledge of developments there, knowledge of Afghan structures, knowledge of what gives the Afghan woman and man hope for a future. Therefore, it is so important that the Foreign Minister obviously listens to those who hold this knowledge, and takes some action as a result of having access to this knowledge. That is why it is so important that the Foreign Minister invites the Stortinget to debate and challenges us to look at the whole picture of the situation, and is so clear that we need to see developments from Kabul and not from Oslo. With respect for the debate that has taken place in Norway for a long time, I would say that we have seen too much progress from Oslo, and little from Kabul. The fact that Afghanistan can be won militarily is a claim that no longer has particular support in international context. Last week, The Atlantic Council of the United States came up with a report that concludes that future Afghanistan will depend on success or defeat in relation to state building, civil society building in the country. It is important to note that there has been a lot of positive in Afghanistan in recent years. It is true that 6 million children, both boys and girls, have access to school and that the mustache has improved in a country that has had some of the world's largest child mortality before the age of three. Child mortality is now reduced by one fourth. I also think there is reason to raise the level of rural development projects. They provide Norway with substantial support. Through them, a total of 17 000 local communities are included in school, health, road and water development projects. Afghanistan has gone from being a country with the Taliban regime, with daily gross violations of human rights, with women's stoning, girls who were denied schooling, and bullying political opposition, to becoming a country where it is now allowed to hope for future democratic development and state building. So this is a lot of paradoxes. There is no black-and-white picture here, for many of the warlords on whom today's Afghan government relies, such as. Dostum, stands for significant gross assault. That reminded Afghan women, gathered at a seminar in Norway this fall, us about. Among them was the parliamentarian Shukria Barakzai, one of the four who, in danger of his own life, voted against the amnesty laws which make it impossible to hold these warlords responsible for the abuses they have suffered. The Minister of Foreign Affairs also referred to journalists working in part of Afghanistan with their lives. Just before parts of the Foreign Affairs Committee visited Afghanistan last year, two female journalists were killed. We met a female journalist who wouldn't let himself be afraid to stop writing, but she was very aware of what the costs might be. With this, I say that we, as international societies, are facing major challenges linked to our commitment to a stable and peaceful Afghanistan. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs says, the work on building a stable Afghanistan has proved to be more difficult than many had imagined. The country and the infrastructure lay in ruins after many years of war. And like the Afghan women, who were gathered at a seminar this fall, said: The worst time they experienced during the civil war. There is now a need to focus more on good coordination of the efforts currently being made by a wide range of actors with different agendas. NATO is an alliance that has never been built for development and state building. I hope we all agree on that. It has therefore become clearer and clearer that the UN needs to be on the road and give an overall role and a mandate to coordinate action in the future. The UN has, as the Foreign Minister said, a great deal of experience in civil construction. We can refer to examples like Liberia, Sierra Leone and East Timor, to mention something. The leadership must therefore be gradually transferred to the UN and the Afghans must be released to sea - 'afghanistan' - as the Foreign Minister wisely stressed. The report of The Atlantic Council of the United States points out that the reform of the civil sector has major problems. There is a lack of coordination and, in addition, the situation is such that for every dollar spent on aid to Afghanistan, only a small part goes directly to the Afghans. Daan Everts, former civil representative of the NATO Secretariat in Kabul, admitted to Al-Jazeera that Afghan construction has been bonanza for consultants, who have run out of farms with over 40 pst. of the assistance provided to Afghanistan. Today, many Afghans have to travel to neighbouring countries and the Gulf countries to get unskilled jobs. What we have to do is to ensure that Afghans can create jobs for Afghans in Afghanistan. State authorities and instruments must then be used in the construction of infrastructure and in the implementation of all the projects for which international donors provide funds. Today, they are too much outsourced to major international actors. Several Afghanistan experts have told us that the role of the Afghan authorities is becoming the responsibility of the police, the military and the courts, while creating jobs and economic development goes to larger foreign companies. Here much more must go to the Afghan company to build up Afghan business. Afghanistan has historically never been a centralised state, but is built up of tribes and communities, as not least the anthropologist Fredrik Barth has told us. The British organization Oxfam came last week with a report on developments in the country saying that social and economic development has so far been too centralised, too heavy and inadequate. As a major aid player, we in Norway have a role to play in getting a turn against more power and emphasis on local governments in the provinces and villages. We must contribute to capacity building here as well. The same must happen at all levels of the administration in order to prevent corruption and to create confidence in the authorities. Police and judicial services need to be reformed not only as an organisation but also in attitudes and in the role of society. Afghanistan must be built on Afghan structures. Afghanistan must take the lead, and we must recognise more fully that this must be done in line with the traditions that have existed in Afghanistan. SV is pleased that the Government is now increasing humanitarian and development assistance to 750 million. kr. As we know, Norway is the only country that spends as much on development as on military participation. It is an important step in the right direction for the efforts in Afghanistan. It's an important signal to other countries and donors. Nevertheless, ten to eleven times more are spent on military participation in Afghanistan than on humanitarian aid. So Norway is going in a different direction. In order to achieve a stable future for Afghans, there must also be a willingness to talk to different actors. In this context, it is important to support the dialogue that has been under development for a long time between the Afghan Government and moderate forces within the Taliban. That's what the Minister of Foreign Affairs says: one has to nuance the image of the Taliban. We need to get more knowledge about them. We know that Karzai has been open for dialogue for a long time. As several heads of state have said, there will be no peace if you don't talk to the enemy. So the Foreign Minister said that it's about making the critical voices stronger, those who are in charge of criticising human rights violations. Afghanistan experts tell us that it is also very important to strengthen these critical voices, and that we also have the debate in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1400	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1403	The Minister for Foreign Affairs said in the statement, among others.«Without security, no development». And, ‘Without development, no lasting security.’ He went on to say, ‘We are present military in Afghanistan through ISAF to secure security in the country’, and that all Norwegian women and men engaged in Afghanistan deserve our total support. From the Socialist Left Party, we are constantly experiencing double communication on these issues. In this room, it is said, quite reluctantly, that we are supported by our Afghanistan exposure, while outside this hall we hear representatives from the party claiming the exact opposite. Such an approach undermines the degrees of our security-policy credibility, while also giving good arguments to those who still support the Taliban. Will the Socialist Left now gather the ranks and support our civil and military efforts in Afghanistan and stand behind our forces, which the Foreign Minister rightly claims deserve our total support?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1412	The Minister of Foreign Affairs is not the only one who says that without certainty there will be no development. It was something the Afghan women pointed out to us at the seminar I referred to, in the fall, it was exactly the same. But then the question is, how do you get to that security? It is a fact that, especially in the south and the east, there has been an offensive warfare that has not weakened the rise of the Taliban, but rather increased the upsurge against international presence. This is a factor in weakening safety. For us, it has been important that we now increase the humanitarian effort, so that it becomes a 50/50 distribution, and that the Foreign Minister so clearly says that you have to have faith in reconciliation, that you have to have faith in conversations. But then it is a problem that there has been too little Afghanistan debate in Norway. There has been too little knowledge development in Norway, and I welcome any debate on Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1419	I would like to commend the Minister of Foreign Affairs for being exemplaryly clear about what is the Government's policy. I had expected SV to follow it, when the foreign minister is now unambiguous. But I cannot help but notice a big difference in the contributions made by the representative of Valle and the contribution made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. SV has long wanted to debate Afghanistan. The problem, as I see it, is that the SV's primary contribution has just been to create uncertainty about what the Norwegian line is. Uncertainty is at the expense of Norwegian soldiers. It makes Norwegian soldiers an opportunistic attack target. The Afghan Minister of Education says, ‘Your soldiers make it possible for our children to go to school.’ And we see that security, governance and development are clearly linked. Does the representative, Valle, think that the legitimacy of the foreign forces will be strengthened by talking to the Taliban?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1426	The fact that Minister of Foreign Affairs, Atmar, comes with the statements he makes shows that it has been right to have a presence in the north. It has been right to be present to ensure the daily life of Afghan women and men. At the same time, we are stepping up humanitarian and civil aid based on knowledge of Afghanistan. The Minister of Foreign Affairs must be very commended for having so clearly shown that he has knowledge of Afghanistan and the Afghan structures. Then I think with respect to report it will be quite rude to say that a debate on Afghanistan leads to Norwegian soldiers being attacked. It's just an offensive warfare that has led to it. This is what may weaken the emergence of foreign presence.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1438	It is honest enough that the Afghanistan policy to Norway has been demanding in the SV and has led to debates. It is in every way honest enough, but I assume without further ado that the Swedish Government has put itself behind every sentence and every comma in the very good statement that the Minister of Foreign Affairs made today. SV had a few weeks ago a conference that was supposed to gather knowledge and perhaps also bring the party together more behind this policy. What came out of it, which meant that part of us chose to raise the eyebrows, was SV's Vice President who said that now we were going to negotiate with the Taliban. Whether the Foreign Minister said today that this political reconciliation work is the responsibility of the Afghans and that it is the Afghan authorities who have to talk to - or question - the Taliban or other rebel forces. I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Was that what SV's Vice President meant when he told us to negotiate with the Taliban?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1445	SV Vice-Chairman agrees very much with Karzai, who has been calling for negotiations with the Taliban for a long time. Unfortunately, he has been countered by, among others. U.S.A. I hope that the United States will gradually begin to realize that negotiations will have to take place. So it's true, as the Foreign Minister said, that we need to nuance the image of the Taliban. Some are foreign actors, while others are moderate leaders of the Pashtun population. As many wise statesmen have said, there will be no peace and reconciliation without talking to the enemy. I assume that the left also agrees.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1452	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1456	Let me pay tribute to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a thorough presentation, which confirms and maintains the broad lines on which the United Nations and NATO and changing Norwegian governments have built regarding Afghanistan. Today's debate has come about because the Christian People's Party on 5 December received broad support for its proposal that the Government should present to the Stortinget a more coordinated plan for the efforts in Afghanistan. This is the theme of today's debate. The questions about the fatal attack at Serena Hotel in Kabul last month will come back when the results of the internal reviews of the event have been presented. There are several reasons for the need for today's debate. Afghanistan is a serious challenge for the world society. If we are to succeed in giving the country a better future, international efforts for state building, social development and security must be strengthened and better coordinated. Norway must contribute constructively in international forums where we are involved and discuss the overall strategy. In addition, Norway must have a thoughtful and agreed plan for its own efforts. There must be clarity about the government's policy. Therefore, this gap had to be clarified within the government parties in Norway. It cannot be that the SV part of the Government is both in favour of and against Norway's participation in the so-called warfare that the red-green government stands for, according to critical SV politicians. The Foreign Minister's speech today was commendable. The Christian People's Party has consistently stressed that the conflict in Afghanistan cannot be resolved by military means alone. This war-torn and lukewarm country needs a comprehensive reconstruction and a political process that can provide the population with improved living conditions, security and hope. That is why I would first like to highlight the need for social and economic development - and in particular the role of aid. International efforts must be better coordinated, both between donors and vis-à-vis Afghan authorities. The Christian People's Party has consistently called for better coordination of Norwegian and international efforts. That's what most people wanted to share. The effectiveness of assistance is improved when many relief measures are well coordinated. The coordinating role of the United Nations must be strengthened. It is in these days two years since the Afghanistan authorities, the UN and the world community agreed on the so-called Afghanistan Compact, a framework for coordinated cooperation with a view to promoting peace, development and human rights in the country. We have to build on this and make sure it works in practice. Assistance needs to be increased. The Christian People's Party has long spoken in favour of stepping up civil assistance to Afghanistan. Of course, the increase outlined by the Minister of Foreign Affairs has our support. What we may wonder is that it was not clearly inserted and presented already in the 2008 state budget. Together with infrastructure and health, education is the three priority areas for action in Afghanistan Compact. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we will continue Norway's priority efforts in the field of school development. Not least, it is important to give girls a stronger position. It will also improve the basis for public information, democratisation and knowledge of human rights. In this way, it could provide better opportunities in the long term for the Afghanistan political process. Already at the Bonn conference in 2002, there was a plan for the political reform process in Afghanistan, and it has been followed up - with the election of President and elected assemblies. In 2004, a new constitution entered into force. Let me highlight three main policy challenges in today's situation. The first is state-building and afghanization, which many have been involved in. The election of the Afghan government was promising, but the government still has little authority and executive power around the country. It limits people's confidence in central government as an effective authority, giving room for manoeuvre for other groupings of powers around the provinces. Strengthening the competence and power of the Afghan authorities is now strategically important both in order to obtain practical results and in order to strengthen confidence in and the emergence of elected bodies. The second main challenge is that the rule of law and human rights must also be strengthened. Whether the Constitution is very good to say, but the judiciary is not independent and not competent enough to follow up. This is what we see in the use of the death penalty when people only make use of their human rights. We remember the death sentence against one who converted from Islam to Christian faith. He saved his life by being sent out of the country. Now a journalist student is sentenced to death for using his freedom of speech. Such discouraging examples relate to tradition and internal tension in the Constitution. Article 3 of the Constitution states that no law is to be contrary to Islamic law, i.e. Sharia. However, Article 7 provides that the State is to comply with international conventions. The understanding of freedom of belief and freedom of expression is not rooted in the legal system. Early and clear speech is needed here. One could not just say that the Norwegian authorities in the last case are an example of that. The third main challenge is the need to strengthen political reconciliation and inclusion processes. Some local leaders with different links to the Taliban movement are involved in political choices and processes. The Karzai government wants to include more people who are tired of violence and war, and who see that participation in democratic processes is a better option. Such Afghan peace processes must be encouraged, but not in such a way as to undermine the position of the elected government in the country. Both policy processes and social and economic development depend on satisfactory security. It is so demanding that the UN Security Council asked NATO to have the management of the international stabilisation forces. The UN had good reasons for that. Once the UN has asked NATO to lead the stabilisation forces, Norway must, of course, support it. I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is based on this NATO decision and is not playing with SV thoughts about destroying the robustness of the stabilisation effort by opposing that NATO, with its competence and capacity, is carrying out this work in accordance with the United Nations mandate. Norway must actively contribute to stabilisation. Our soldiers do a demanding and valuable job, which Afghan authorities value highly. Unfortunately, there is confusion when SV’s party leader, Norway’s finance minister, says that there are too many Western soldiers in the stabilisation forces, while supporting the deployment of even more Norwegian – well - western – soldiers in the weeks to come. On this point, too, the Foreign Minister's statement today is clarifying. Confidence between soldiers and the local population is important, and Norway must consistently stress the importance of planning military operations to avoid civilian losses as far as possible. It is Taliban and Al Qaida who have terror against civilians as their trademark. The international forces must be different from these elements, and they must follow the guidelines of international law. The Taliban’s new strategy is precisely to create fear through the use of road bombs and suicide attacks against civilians, such as the use of illegal drugs. teachers and foreign guests. Tragically, it has also cost Norwegian citizens their lives. Both the people of Afghanistan and the world have served to ensure that Afghanistan does not once again become an impasse of international terrorism. Therefore, determination and clear willingness to contribute in the long term are so important. The most important thing about the debate here today, as I see it, is that the Government so clearly and clarifyingly expresses the line enshrined in the UN mandate, in NATO's responsibility with regard to ISAF, and in the overall strategy for building civil society. What Stortinget has witnessed today is that the government party SV has also fully joined Norwegian Afghanistan policy, including the military part. We hope that this applies not only to SV here in the hall, but also to SV outside this hall. It is important that what we do has broad support in Stortinget. Following the statement of judgement, this policy has committed support from all parties in the government that is now fully responsible for Norwegian Afghanistan policy. The size of the population is behind this policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1502	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a thorough and very clear statement. It is gratifying that there is a rather united response to the need for a renewed overall and integrated strategy for the action of the world community in Afghanistan. The Central Party is pleased that the Government has helped focus on putting the need for such an overall strategy on the international agenda. The government has also helped to focus on the lack of balance between civil action and military action, although we can say from the Norwegian side that we have come well in the direction we want. However, there is a long way to go until this could be reflected in international efforts in Afghanistan. Although Norway, Canada and the Netherlands are developing local approaches to institution building and cooperation, there is a lack of overall leadership for the efforts, instruments and objectives of the world community. After the military efforts in Iraq, the military effort in Afghanistan is the most expensive military operation and nation-building effort. I notice that NUPI's director, Jan Egeland, believes that so far it is probably also the least successful, measured by the financial effort. It clearly tells us that the challenges we faced were greater than we thought. We note that six years after the invasion, the security of the civilian population in some areas has deteriorated. Terrorism and drug production have increased, and the United States and NATO have not been able to launch a good coherent strategy. Despite the fact that some things have become worse, we can nevertheless refer to some important civil achievements that it is important to protect and continue - in terms of water supply, hospitals, schools, prison services, police work, etc. This is the field where the UN has greater competence, and the UN as an organisation is also the best way to coordinate that effort. State Secretary Barth Eide has said: ‘An average African operation is better coordinated than that in Afghanistan and it is not because African operations are particularly well coordinated’. This puts our finger on one of the main challenges facing us in Afghanistan. NATO is good at military intervention. The UN is good at nation-building and peacekeeping. It is therefore important that Norway contributes to the overall coordination responsibility of the UN in Afghanistan. We should also be able to allow ourselves to discuss whether the UN should be strengthened in the field. Coordination between the UN and the work of the PRTs - the small units made up of ISAF military forces and civil actors - must be done with great care. We know that cooperation between civil and military actors is not unproblematic among, for example, humanitarian organisations. Neutrality and trust in the local population are key. I hope we can quickly put in place a new and expanded position for the UN Special Mission to Afghanistan. The aim must be to make the United Nations take on a greater share of the responsibility for the reconstruction of Afghanistan, a task that is currently largely carried out by NATO. I hope that the new Special Envoy will have a broader mandate, which can help coordinate the reconstruction of Afghanistan. However, national construction can only be done by society and by the actors in the community to be built. It is therefore essential that the objective of our efforts is not to destroy or destroy the Taliban militarily. Karzai has remembered that Taliban are also Afghans. It is therefore important to support attempts to negotiate and help engage Afghans in political processes. I have been made aware that Israel's former Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin said that peace is ended with his enemies, not with his friends. I would like to express my support for such a line in Afghanistan. And again, it's important that a peace process is led by the Afghans themselves. The experience of the Bosnia-Herzegovina shows that following a military intervention by the world community, it is easier to rebuild the military structures, while the civil rule of law structures such as the police and the judiciary are much more challenging to build up. The imbalance between military and civil efforts in Afghanistan may have undermined economic policy support. Especially in the case of offensive military operations. As the dwindling SRSG, Tom Koenigs, used to say, for every Taliban soldier we kill, maybe ten new ones are created. I believe that the priority taken by the Government is correct, when the Government decided in October 2007 to increase Norway’s efforts to train its own defences by strengthening our contribution to the training and mentoring teams. These will contribute to the empowerment of the Afghan national army. The decision is in line with the increasing focus that both NATO and the United Nations now have on strengthening the capacity of Afghan authorities to take care of their own security. It is gratifying that we have signals that Norwegian efforts on the civil side will increase to 750 million. kr in 2008. It's a pleasure to have 41 schools in place, and the goal is 82 schools in the current year. The future goal is 220 schools. It is extremely important that the Afghans themselves are involved in building local infrastructure and institutions. Thus, local communities can also see the importance of their own efforts and above all be involved in building local democracy. NATO must help to mitigate the level of conflict, not raise it. That means we have to look at the offensive activity. Maybe we should focus more on stabilisation than we've done so far. Through civil action bilaterally and through the UN, development funds and assistance shall build civil society, local communities, policy processes and production that create sustainable alternatives. We must never lose the goal of NATO becoming superfluous in Afghanistan. At the same time, we should also increasingly consider the role that countries around Afghanistan can play in the peacekeeping process and in reconstruction. In the long term, regional stability and national construction will be essential for the robustness of the results achieved. Finally, I would like to make it clear that the Central Party supports the strategic choices and priorities of this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1547	First, on behalf of myself and the Left, I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for a statement we can put behind each sentence and every word in. And since I have the pleasure of representing the last party in this debate, we can therefore conclude that there is a unanimous increase in support of this statement and therefore of what is the country's policy in Afghanistan. It is also true that in politics it is not least the role and task of the opposition to look for any possibility of seeing a gap internally within a government. It's like that in democracy. I'm not hiding that my political ear, among other things. like the representative Jan Petersens, very much appreciated the presentation made today by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, which was followed by the last few weeks' seminar activity in SV. I have to be able to say for myself -- like the other thing has said -- that I didn't find any such clues in this statement. That's good. We also know that developing a statement from the Government on such an important and sensitive area as this of course is subject to a lot of work within the Government, including among the political parties. That's why I want to assume without a doubt that here all the government parties are putting themselves behind every sentence, every comma and every sentence in what is said by the Foreign Minister today. I think that is clarifying and okay, and I hope that this is also the basis for the Norwegian debate in the future. Then there's something about choice of words. I'm not an expert on international law and international law definition, so I have to stick to my simpler conceptual system. In this context, Norway is at war. I have on some occasions had to sit in this room and take the absolute greatest responsibility that some big-time representative can take, at my discretion, and it is to send Norwegian soldiers into war, with the risk of losing life and the seriousness of it. There is nothing that is more demanding, and there is no task that is more difficult to have as a wholesaler than to do it. It's always hard to carry. It has changed me as a politician, as a representative and as a human being every time I have had to take such a responsibility. It also applies in this case. That's why it's so important that the Storting often takes time to discuss, to have the opportunity to provide the kind of unison support for war operations like this. The soldiers who risk losing their lives -- unfortunately, someone has already done so -- should be able to demand it from us. That's why it's so important that we get together to get behind the important job they're doing, and they need to know that. That is why it is also so important that we demand - and I feel that this debate has made very clear today - that the Government has a clear strategy that everyone is behind, and that the Storting is of course as broad as possible behind this and underlines the seriousness of it. So it is that no one will or can - at least not in an open and vital democracy like ours - stop any debate, rather the opposite. That's what we need. But there is a debate in which we have to take seriously the fact that we are asking Norwegian youth to be involved in risking lives in these kinds of tasks. Either we're behind them, or we just have to bring them home again. The debate that kind of raises doubts about where the government is on such a vital issue as war participation is -- whether it's going on in seminars, in plenary or within the government -- is not tolerated. Fortunately, I think we can park it after today's presentation and debate. I could've stopped there, because it's such a broad consensus. Anyway, I would like to - precisely because it's attached so much seriousness to what we're putting behind here - make some additional comments. I always think it is important to try to remember the starting point on such questions as this, or one could quote the prime minister, Jagland, who wrote in the evening post: ‘Remember what the Taliban is’. The exposure in Afghanistan is a solidarity project with the Afghan people who need protection from one of the most despotic regimes in the world has seen in recent times. We must also be able to allow ourselves to say that we have a clear self-interest in helping to stop terrorism and other serious security threats also against ourselves, and to preserve freedom, human rights and democracy as well as possible - and I would like to add: everywhere and for everyone. Then it's like there's kind of no option. We can almost not allow ourselves to succeed in Afghanistan - for many reasons, not only for the Afghan people, but also for world peace, for NATO and for the UN. I don't want to use the words 'if we don't succeed in Afghanistan', because we have to do that, but if someone tried the thought experiment that that was the case, it would have been a little bright perspective that opened up. The Taliban regime would come back in an even more radical form, civil and political rights would be disregarded, Afghan women would face a very heavy time, the power balance in Central Asia would be distorted, extremists would get wind on the sails, terrorists would get new shelters and training bases, and we should not forget that the neighbouring country Pakistan has nuclear bombs and -- not least -- the UN and NATO would be weakened. The will of the world community and the ability to solve problems of this kind would be weakened. We would simply leave our fellow human beings in the lurch, and it would have an enormously negative global impact. The safety of Norway would also have been affected. We can never accept a victory for terrorism and repression. Then, of course, it is important that the strategy be discussed, but it must have the starting point or the platform that it is in order to succeed even better. The value base for taking a discussion about strategy must be: How do we succeed in the fight to achieve the goals we have set ourselves? How can we succeed better? The left assumes that this very debate on strategy is ongoing within NATO, between the countries involved together with the authorities in Afghanistan, and of course such a debate must also take place in public space. But it is important to be clear on different roles, and that everyone responsible for the country's leadership takes that task seriously. Let me stress, as the Foreign Minister and other speakers in this debate also did, that in such a strategy debate, it is important to look at the division of labour between the UN and NATO. The Left supports an initiative to give the United Nations a clearer and stronger role in Afghanistan. Then I say, with a clear emphasis, that strengthening the UN does not necessarily mean in my speeches that we should somehow weaken NATO, rather on the contrary. We probably have to strengthen both. Unfortunately, sometimes the impression is that when someone says that they want to strengthen the UN, it's in the cards that NATO is going to weaken. Both must be strengthened. Of course, there is a great need to coordinate and coordinate the military more than civil efforts. It is the UN that should play the important role. We see that many donor countries and ground aid actors operate in their own ways in their demarcated areas. This is probably at the expense of efficiency and thus our ability to succeed. I would also like to express my support for the appointment of a new UN Special Envoy with a stronger mandate to coordinate security measures and the development of civil projects. With regard to the future efforts of NATO, I am pleased with the repeated statements by the Minister for Foreign Affairs that NATO is to be responsible for the military operations within ISAF. It is naive to believe that the UN can lead military operations against the Taliban. To that is enough the problems too sharp, unfortunately. The situation in Afghanistan requires both defensive operations to secure civil and offensive operations to combat the Taliban. In practice, it is neither possible nor appropriate to make a distinction between offensive and defensive operations. To be honest, I don't quite understand those who are trying to make that an important point, because we have to strike the Taliban militarily with great strength. In my view and in my view, the NATO forces should have the lowest possible operational constraints. This also applies to Norwegian soldiers. I am not saying with this that Norway should be present with Norwegian soldiers in the south, because it is not a political task. It should be a military task to assess whether this is necessary. I will conclude by thanking the Minister for Foreign Affairs again for this statement and saying that the Left is behind it by a hundred percent.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1575	It's been interesting to listen to all the speeches from the parties. They can actually be summed up in the fact that there is a total accumulation behind the policy that the government here has drawn up. It has also been the case in all the decisions on both civil and military participation that have taken place during this period of government, and that was probably the case in the previous one. Norway thus has a solid tradition of having a broad policy mix in Afghanistan. It's not like this in every country. So let's see. I think it can go as a strong message to the women and men who are now serving Norway and ISAF out there. That is the main point of this debate. There was a long statement, and let me also say to the representative Sponheim, with a certain degree of merriment, that of course the entire government is behind this statement -- behind all the commas and sentences, especially the sentence! Of course, it's like this now, as usual. But what I want to discuss a little is respect for the fact that there is debate, respect for the fact that there are different views, respect for the fact that there are some people in our country - quite a few - for whom this is a demanding topic with difficult issues and unknown cultures. It is a task that is demanding both in substance and time to communicate. That's why we all have to work on it. But I believe that it is the task of the political parties in our democracy to be channels for those debates, to be ombudsmen and women for different views and to offer knowledge. I will be allowed to say: it is wrong that I am not affected in this presentation of the seminar that SV had, because it was a knowledge seminar where there were, among other things, representatives from ISAF, representatives from the academy and representatives with different views. Many of those posts were worth listening to. I therefore believe that, in the time to come, we should have respect for and open channels for debate on these issues. But where there can be no doubt about it, the decisions a government makes, about the policy it presents to the Stortinget, and what the Stortinget will decide. This debate has made it clear that there is no such doubt, and I believe that we should also have respect for the formation and expression of opinion that is taking place out there. To the representative of Gitmark, I would like to say that it is a loud game to say that this debate endangers the lives of Norwegian soldiers. I believe that using such words in such a situation is to assume a great responsibility. It's now important that our people out there know that they've got a bunch of stuff behind them. I believe that if, in a situation, we say that it is to fail our people to have a debate on such a demanding mission, we will fail at the same time one of the democratic prerequisites it is to gather such broad support, namely that such a debate takes place. There are still some posts that I will listen to with interest. For me, it is important to say that we can send a signal today that there is broad support for our military commitment that is important to security, and there is broad support for the escalation we are doing on the civil side. I have the impression that we can lose Afghanistan militarily, and that we can only win Afghanistan through civil engagement and the development of the regime. I think that with the strategy we have now adopted and supported, we are on the way to making our contribution to it. But it is clear that Norway's contribution here is a small contribution in a large context. We should not exaggerate that significance. But at least we now have a very good and clear platform for the work we're going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1588	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1591	Provided that the Minister of Foreign Affairs agrees with us that many demanding and divisive restrictions on military engagement make security work more difficult in Afghanistan, will the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Government work in a NATO setting to limit these restrictions and make the work of NATO more operationally effective?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1596	I think it is important to have a few limitations and a great deal of planning freedom for those who are going to carry out this difficult operation. At the same time, I think we have to recognise that when 40 countries participate, and most of them are democracies like ours, there will be leaders who reflect in decisions taken by parliaments in the area of presence. So we're not among those who have the most limitations about our commitment. Our commitment can also be explained very well by our focusing on where in the former government and in the present government we have built up local knowledge. As the representative Petersen said, we need to focus on presence where we have experience. That's what we're doing. We concentrate on strength around Kabul and up in the Meymaneh province, and there we do an effort that I think is sufficiently demanding as it is. Then, clearly, questions arise that are demanding within the alliance, for those who are currently exposed to the most demanding tasks, especially in the south. This picture can also change over time, and therefore that debate must go internally in NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1603	Right is pleased that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is giving a clear message to our forces, to the Afghan people and to the Taliban that the Norwegian involvement in Afghanistan is long-term. A problem the Minister for Foreign Affairs did not comment on in his statement is that Canada has made it clear that they are considering withdrawing their forces next year if no more allies show solidarity in South Afghanistan. There could be a rather serious situation for the entire operation, if Canada and possibly other countries are serious about their threats of withdrawal from Afghanistan. I would therefore ask the Foreign Minister to give his assessment of the impact on operations in Afghanistan, if Canada and possibly others are serious about their threats.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1610	I think it would be very serious if individual countries feel that the situation becomes so that they have to withdraw unilaterally. That is why NATO needs to take this debate very seriously, and so do you. A similar debate took place around the Netherlands, where the situation has changed with other countries participating in the operation where the Netherlands is responsible, so that discussion is taking place. We have to work to make it possible for Canada to be in the operation. I also believe that we must stick to the Afghanisation strategy, that is to say that we are gradually and systematically strengthening the Afghans' ability to run their own army and their own police, and thus take care of security. That is the way it was said in the debate here, that we need a strategy to make ourselves gradually redundant, and that it is the strategy that can gradually release the pressure that lies there. I agree that it would be negative if it were to happen that some countries say that they now have to stand out unilaterally. The alliance has to do what it can to avoid it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1619	It is not difficult to agree on the summary of the foreign minister's agreement here in the Chamber. What I'm wondering about is his tribute to the debate. Having an open debate is thus its case, but does the Foreign Minister think it is okay that there is not only a popular debate and informative seminars, but that the leaders and spokespersons of one of the government parties in this area also take the floor to change NATO's ISAF strategy to end the offensive warfare, say that you want a stop to the attack war, that there are too many Western soldiers in the country, and that this cannot continue? Are these statements okay when they come from the responsible leaders of one of the government parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1626	It is very clear that my position does not coincide with what the representative has now stated. I disagree with that analysis, and I disagree with the perspective. And then it's important to note that that's not the perspective of the government. The government has made its decisions, and I have explained them now. As I said, there is agreement on each point and comma in that statement, so that's the government's clear position. But that there are different views out in parties, I'm prepared to live with. That we should have a unison consensus in all parts of all parties, would almost be-- I won't say-- too good to be true, but I don't think it would rhyme with the likely diversity of opinions it's about such a demanding question. So I'm not of the opinion that was expressed here. I say clearly what my opinion is, and I am involved in the formation of opinion in the Government. As I said, there can never be any doubt about what the government means, nor is it in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1634	Let me follow up the Hojbråtten's line and give a reflection around this with offensive and defensive operations in a warlike situation: although I try to understand what's in this, I have difficulty understanding it. In practice, this means that if, for example: ISAF forces, NATO forces, or Norwegian forces in general, who are informed by intelligence that a cell of, for example, is developing. Taliban soldiers planning an attack or an attack should not sit and wait for it to happen, but actually go out and disarm that cell. I see that as an offensive act and, at my discretion, an absolutely necessary act. Does the Foreign Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1641	Yes, I agree. So I'm going to add, as I said in my presentation, the importance of putting great emphasis on implementing the military mission in a way that doesn't create unnecessary civilian losses, and having a lot of knowledge of the local communities in which you operate, so that you don't create more problems than you do. This theme has been central to NATO for several years now. I also made it known that President Karzai told me that he had the impression that there were improvements here now. But there is no doubt that when you face the kind of challenges that the Taliban and other rebel movements represent, you cannot be held responsible and wait for an attack you know to come. In that case, it is natural to take the precautions necessary to be able to both oppose it, to avert it and to prevent any damage it may cause. There's no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1650	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1653	Some have probably forgotten the background to Norway’s participation in NATO operations in Afghanistan and why participation in the operation is still important. It may be because of the historical understanding of our commitment. The essential and lasting purpose of NATO, as laid down in the Washington Treaty, is to secure the freedom and security of all its members through political and military means. With this in mind, NATO has provided collective defence for its members since its establishment in 1949. NATO has also acted as a crucial forum for consultation on security issues of interest to its members and as a key pillar for peace and stability in the Euro-Atlantic region. After the end of the Cold War, the alliance took on new basic tasks, including building security partnerships with democracies across Europe, through the Caucasus and into Central Asia. Today, NATO is increasingly engaged in activities designed to promote cooperation with Russia, Ukraine and other countries outside NATO and to actively meet the new security challenges of our time, such as international terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Norway’s defence is precisely based on the assurance that our allies in NATO will come forward if Norway needs allied support in the event of a crisis or war. In recent years, the defence has largely focused on training soldiers and other personnel to meet the challenges posed by NATO's new doctrine. The terrorist attacks against the United States on 11 September 2001 showed how the security situation has changed since the end of the Cold War. In response to the terrorist attacks against the United States, the Allies used Article 5 of the Washington Treaty for the first time, the provision on NATO's collective defence, and provided political and practical support to the United States at a crucial moment. The UN also supported the operation against Al Qaida in Afghanistan. The role of NATO in Afghanistan is important to ensure democratic development in the country and to secure the population against attacks by warlords and other terrorists. NATO needs more soldiers in Afghanistan. It is important, then, that all Member States see their responsibilities and send out the capacities requested. It is also the case that it is crucial for humanitarian emergency work that the situation becomes more stable in the military, in order to strengthen aid efforts. Unfortunately, recent misguided statements have been made by politicians showing a scepticism for continued Norwegian intervention in Afghanistan. This is unfortunate for several reasons. Among other things, it is important to show our soldiers that they have the full support of politicians in the work they do in Afghanistan and elsewhere. Furthermore, it shows that some politicians like to look for simple solutions when situations become difficult. This is the same as saying that the terrorists are about to win. It was therefore very uplifting to read what Grand President Thorbjørn Jagland and Jan Egeland have recently spoken in various media. President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Jagland, showed a great deal of insight and understanding about the situation in Afghanistan when he pointed out in the Newspaper on 25 January how important it is that we do the tasks in Afghanistan and that a collapse in Afghanistan will be a huge victory for the terrorist groups. Furthermore, he wrote that it is necessary for NATO’s member countries to provide sufficient troops. I agree with the understanding of Jagland in this way and hope that this has footholds far into the Workers' Party and the Government. Jan Egeland, as well as has been the State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and has later had a number of tasks in the United Nations, stated to the daily newspaper on 24 January that it is wrong to criticise the so-called attack war. He further stated that it was wrong not to send Norwegian soldiers to South Afghanistan. He also did not want the United Nations to take over NATO now. Furthermore, he stressed that military power is as necessary as civil action to provide security and stability in Afghanistan. Also, Aegean, with its experience and insight, is very clear on the importance of military action in Afghanistan. This, in addition to the opinions of Jagland, should be a signal to the Government to anchor a continuation of its involvement in Afghanistan, while recognising that Norway needs to consider taking greater responsibility for the more offensive part of stabilisation of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1676	It is often forgotten in the debate - which is why I repeat - that the ISAF force in Afghanistan was actually established by the UN Security Council by Security Council Resolution 1386 on 20 December 2001. ISAF was from the start of a UN force under the direction of the United Kingdom - later probably Germany and the Netherlands as well. It was not until early in the autumn of 2003 that the command was taken over by NATO. This was at the request of the UN, inter alia: because, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said here today: NATO has an established command and coordination system and has a generation process in respect of forces of tradition. The ISAF should ensure stability and security, be a security framework for the development of civil society and the establishment of democratic institutions. It was the UN Conference in Bonn that, following the fall of the Taliban, laid the foundations for the further civil process in Afghanistan. It was also the Bonn meeting that asked for the stabilisation force. The cruel Taliban regime had been chased out of Kabul by Operation Enduring Freedom and the North Alliance. They left behind a country in chaos and ruin after a regime of terror that the world has barely seen. I remember -- also where I was sitting -- when I read the description of the first woman who was stoned, after the Taliban came to power. Then the Taliban regime was silenced in international media. The first time the Taliban appeared again in the media, they were destroying the Buddha statues. Then the world community reacted, but it was only French Le Monde who wrote: But what about the women in Afghanistan? The Bonn conference was crystal clear both in terms of the need for military presence and the need for development assistance, humanitarian aid and the construction of civil institutions. Norway quickly made Afghanistan a cooperating country for Norwegian aid. It was the then development minister, Hilde Frafjord Johnson, who did. I have registered today that both the Right and the Advance Party also support the fact that we must have the necessary civil efforts in place in Afghanistan. Then I would like to add that the world community did not provide sufficient civil support after the Bonn Conference. In part, assistance has also been fragmented, and there is a strong need for coordination and for Afghan stamping on welfare development and legitimising the regime. Nevertheless, as several have underlined today: While girls were banned from going to school under the Taliban, today 2 out of 6 million children are under education girls. Almost half a million girls started school just last year. We see that the Taliban is attacking schools and killing teachers, but basically it's moving forward. We had a visit by the Afghan Minister of Education before Christmas, and he actually wanted to cooperate with Norway on teacher training. A lot of numbers have been mentioned here today. Let me also add that there has been great progress in access to health care. 82 pst. the population now receives health care, against 9 pst. in 2002. It is also a large-scale programme for the vaccination of children. Five million refugees have returned to Afghanistan. I remember that when I was in Pakistan in the spring of 2001, there were reports from the refugee camps in the border areas of Afghanistan, where there were women and children and literally frozen. It was just the UNHCR, the United Nations refugee organization, who was there, for there was no CNN effect, and they didn't have enough money. Many of these are now back in Afghanistan -- 5 million refugees have returned. So the world community and Afghan authorities underestimated the Taliban, and forgot that when the Taliban came to power, it was just after building up the organisation of camps in Afghanistan/Pakistan border areas -- yes, actually, mainly on the Pakistani side of the border, even before they came to power. That is why Pakistan remains an important piece in the future of Afghanistan. The Taliban is a well-organised movement, although they are now significantly weakened. It is important that we contribute to their failure to regain power in Afghanistan. That is why we need a long-term military presence in the country, and we need to strengthen and improve the coordination of civil assistance. It is also a message that we must face up to our allies.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1699	I think we're experiencing an extraordinary situation when we're discussing Afghanistan in Stortinget and there's not a single SV present in the hall. I don't think that's happened as long as I've been here. The fact that they are not in the lawn is probably also a part of making this an extraordinary thing. I would like to say that I am very pleased with the statement made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, namely that a broad consensus is reached outside the Government. I would like to say, as Mr Valle said earlier, that debate is important. I fully agree with that, but the approach to debate is significantly different for the Right and SV. While on the right, on the one hand, I want a debate on developments in Afghanistan, I feel that SV wants a strong debate on whether we want forces in Afghanistan or not. I see it as understandable, because SV, as an opponent of Norwegian NATO membership, also does not want Norwegian NATO forces, or NATO forces at all, in Afghanistan. However, when they have chosen to participate in a government that pursues policies on the basis of a broad majority both in the United Kingdom and in the people, it is the will of the majority that Norway should participate and contribute to stability and development in Afghanistan. The safety situation in Afghanistan is difficult and, of course, it is important to analyse it. However, the SV’s message has been that NATO has contributed to worsening the situation in the country. Here SV's obvious NATO resistance has been on autopilot, and the analysis has been absent. The Taliban and other rebel groups have clearly increased the use of both road bombs, suicide bombers and other asymmetric warfare. Evidence of organised crime in the form of drug production and trafficking has increased as a source of funding for rebel movements. According to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the security situation in the country is totally unchanged. ‘The rebellion movement has been severely defeated in the last year and has suffered significant losses’; the Minister for Foreign Affairs, stressing that the basis for local support for insurgents is in the process of weakening. Right-wing believes that debate is important, but that it has to be about how we can reverse the negative developments in Afghanistan that we have seen over the last three decades. In that case, the choice for Norway cannot be left entirely out or to minimise. We want to strongly warn you about this kind of angle of incidence. If NATO withdraws or minimises its efforts, local government support is likely to weaken. The danger of civil war in a very war-torn country will once again increase, with the consequences it will have for both the civilian population, the economic outlook and the international aid effort. Given the possibility to strengthen its position in Afghanistan, the Taliban will contribute to the strengthening of international terrorist movements with a high reach. The danger is that Afghanistan will once again become a terrorist site, among other things. from Al Qaida. If the stabilisation of Afghanistan fails, there is an increased risk of instability and unrest spreading to neighbouring Pakistan, where the Taliban and other extremist groups are constantly challenging Pakistani governance. SV has mainly contributed to creating uncertainty about what the Norwegian line is. This uncertainty is felt most by the Norwegian ground soldiers in Afghanistan, but also by civilian actors in Afghanistan can be hit by a minimum Norwegian approach. It is important that Norway is not perceived as a weak part of the chain and is therefore concerned about targeting Norwegian actors to scare us out of Afghanistan. Winging, or wanting to withdraw Norwegian forces, unfortunately makes Norway a more opportunistic attack target for the Taliban. The limitations we now see for Norwegians and a number of other forces also help to draw the time the forces must be in the country, unnecessarily out. It is therefore commendable and important that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has today been so unambiguous and ready to state: ‘Safety work is essential. If we are to succeed, military efforts must be continued."
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1729	I fully agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who said it was important to debate. It's important to have counter-arguments, because that's just because you can get the best results - and know you're right. I would like to contribute to a little nuance of what a couple have experienced in this debate, namely, that, with reference to what has been said about negotiating with their enemies and not with their friends, perhaps they can negotiate with the Taliban. I think you have to deal a little bit nuanced with the historical facts here. When Nelson Mandela negotiated with the white minority government, the white minority government did not operate and placed suicide bombs inside the black areas. When Yitzhak Rabin started negotiations with the PLO, it was the result that the PLO had announced that it was willing to change the PLO's charter and move away from the goal of eradicating the State of Israel. I think we need to be aware that in Afghanistan we are facing a movement that is in favour of blatant violations of international law. Sending young people out as suicide bombers, i.e. live bombers, and using disabled people as suicide bombers, who don't even know they are, to kill civilians, are blatant violations of international law, of all humanitarian rights and of rules of war. You may find yourself in a situation where you can negotiate with the Taliban, but not until we have a stable and strong government in Afghanistan that can do so. It is possible that this may happen, but our task is to ensure that there is a strong government capable of dealing with the situation. I don't think Israel would have negotiated with the PLO if there had been a shattering government in Israel. So I would like to stress that we are in Afghanistan not only because of a UN decision, but because of a decision in NATO, under the NATO Pact, which is very clear. We, the NATO countries, went into Afghanistan together, and we have to leave Afghanistan together, otherwise it has a huge impact - on NATO and on the guarantee that Norway has had throughout the Cold War, which we still depend on, and on which the other NATO countries depend. Why was decisions taken in NATO? It was, of course, in solidarity with the Afghan people, but it was also on the basis of what the UN Security Council had said that the situation in Afghanistan was a threat to peace and security in the world. We considered it a threat to our security. The danger is not that these terrorist networks can invade NATO countries, our countries, as the danger was during the cold war. Nor is it a danger that these terrorist groups will be able to cope with a situation within the Member States. The danger is that these can destabilise countries - and a region - that we depend on for security, i.e. that we can create such chaos that there is an inconspicuous situation, among other things. in Pakistan, which has nuclear weapons. That's why we consider it a danger to the world's peace and security, and our own security in NATO. That's why we're involved in the entire operation. One thing I missed in the Foreign Minister's presentation is the regional perspective. The kind of Islamic jihad we see in Afghanistan is something we see all over the Orient. That is why all these problems are linked. All the conflicts we see, from Palestine to Afghanistan, are somewhat interrelated. I think it's very necessary to start snooping in all these problems if we're to get control of the situation in Afghanistan over time. But the important thing now is that there is agreement on what we are going to do - as it has been all along - and that the Foreign Minister has so eloquently expressed, namely a combination of civil and military engagement to secure the Afghan people, and also to ensure our own security.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1742	Yes, both security and governance are essential for Afghanistan. In my speech, I would like to emphasise the civil effort that must take place in Afghanistan. It's a vital part of the international effort in the country. Without significant progress in this area, the prospects of success in Afghanistan will be significantly weakened. The health situation in Afghanistan was among the worst in the world even before the Soviet invasion in 1979. Afghanistan is now one of the poorest countries in the world, and the need for primary and secondary health care remains critical. The major health problems and the lack of skilled health professionals and adequate health services are one of the reasons why life expectancy is only 42 years old. I am therefore pleased that Norway is stepping up the civil effort, to 750 million. kr in year. It will then be at the same level as the military effort, which should send an important signal. Today, the international community provides a total of eleven times more for the military than for the civilian, which I think is a crazy priority. I therefore support the Government's efforts to get other countries to give more to the civil effort. I'm not among those who just want to blackmail the situation in Afghanistan. Substantial progress has been made in some areas. It has been mentioned earlier: about 5 million refugees have returned home - a large number. Furthermore, school coverage has improved significantly, including for girls. Over 80 pst. health services are now available to the population. This is 90 pst. all children have received poliovaccine and child mortality has decreased by 25 pst. since 2001. It is also worth mentioning that we have seen progress in the field of development, where projects in infrastructure and rural development have produced good results. But a lot remains. In addition to increasing efforts on civil action, this effort needs to be coordinated significantly more closely than we have seen up to now. Different donor countries need to cooperate more closely. Today, there is too much of the individual donor countries running their plans in their own way. A number of different non-governmental support actors on the ground contribute to further fragmentation of this picture. This results in significant inefficiency in significant parts of civil efforts. Here it is a great potential for improvement. Furthermore, it is important that Afghan authorities be given more control over civil efforts. Today, it's the donors who rule quite a lot. They engage many consultants who involve Afghans to a small extent or draw on their skills. Afghans, as the Minister has also said, should be given greater ownership of their own development, and Afghan authorities should be given greater credit for the positive results achieved. This will build their reputation in the population, which will help to promote stability. I would like to highlight in particular the need to increase efforts by Afghan women and to improve their participation in economic and political processes in Afghanistan. Finally, I would like to point to a major humanitarian challenge facing Afghanistan and many other poor countries. There are increasing food prices on the world market. Increased demand in, among others China, increased use of food plants for biofuels and poor harvests has driven prices up. For example, the price of wheat on the world market has session by nearly 100 pst. the last year. This particularly affects Afghanistan, as bread is an important part of the diet for many Afghans. According to the World Food Programme, 1.3 million Afghans are now very vulnerable to food security. Many more can be driven into this group. Finally, I would like to stress that the humanitarian situation is one of the really critical factors in Afghanistan. If the humanitarian situation deteriorates, or if it becomes a humanitarian crisis, this will send many Afghans in the arms of the Taliban. Afghans have been living with war and unrest for decades. They must now see and experience that the international community is not only out to crack the Taliban, but to alleviate the distress and repatriation of the country. For the Left, this is a solidarity action.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1765	The international community is entering a challenging period in 2008-2009, during which the results achieved in Afghanistan must be consolidated and further developed. That is why the broad consensus on the Afghanistan policy expressed in the Grand Duchy is both positive and joyful. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs has underlined, there is a broad consensus also in NATO and the international community on the importance of an overall and long-term political strategy to succeed in our engagement in Afghanistan. Work is now under way in NATO, as several have also mentioned, to develop a strategic political-military plan for the alliance’s involvement in Afghanistan in the period 2008-2012. The plan shall be politically approved by the Heads of State or Government of the Member States at the NATO Summit in Bucuresti in April this year. NATO has a central role in Afghanistan, but is still only one of several actors. It is therefore important to clarify NATO's responsibilities, roles and tasks in relation to Afghan authorities and other international actors. The plan does not therefore involve an amendment or extension of the mandate of ISAF. The framework for international efforts provided by the United Nations Security Council Resolutions is set out. Norwegians actively support this important work on a long-term political-military plan for Afghanistan. There has been so far too little agreement between the military, political and economic processes, as many have said. From the Norwegian side, therefore, over time we have been a driving force within NATO for a more comprehensive, overall coordination of the international community's efforts. The government therefore attaches great importance to a stronger role to the UN. This should include, inter alia: lead to the appointment of a new UN Secretary-General Special Representative with extended powers. The role of the United Nations should also be strengthened at provincial level, and cooperation between the UN Mission in Afghanistan - UNAMA - and the ISAF regional stabilisation teams, the PRTs, must be improved. In the longer term, UNAMA should be able to take over much of the civil efforts of the PRTs. It is essential that the international community's efforts in Afghanistan are even clearer against Afghan ownership - so-called Afghanisation, which has also been mentioned by many. In addition to contributing to a security situation in which civil reconstruction and development of good governance can take place, NATO has a core task by contributing to the development of Afghan security forces. An example of the challenges we face in northern Afghanistan is the demonstration with over 2,000 people last Sunday in Meymaneh, targeting Afghan authorities. The background was likely that the Afghan police had surrounded the famous North Afghan ruler Abdul Dostum’s house in Kabul. This shows that former warlords still have a severe impact on the security situation in Afghanistan, and illustrates how demanding it is to achieve a good governance in the country. Action by the Afghan army is essential for the Afghan authorities to be able to provide security for themselves, thereby allowing for the withdrawal of the international military presence. Through capacity building, we will help Afghans to gradually be in the driver’s seat both in terms of planning and conducting security operations. The government therefore prioritises high contributions that strengthen NATO’s efforts to train and guide the Afghan army. Since the spring of 2006, we have contributed staff to two multi-national training teams to the management of the 209th Corps and to the management of the 1st Brigade of the Corps in Mazar-e Sharif in northern Afghanistan. The experience is good, and 209. Corps is now referred to as the best of the five troops of the Afghan army. Nevertheless, we are only halfway up against the target of 80,000 soldiers in the Afghan army. Norway will therefore strengthen the training effort from 10 to 50 staff by setting a new training team in northern Afghanistan from the autumn of 2008. It is essential to continue support for the Afghan army in the field as well. It was this Norwegian force when it struck three months ago in the border areas between the Faryab province and the Badghis province of north-west Afghanistan. The incident shows that the Afghan army is able to carry out limited operations but still needs support in order to carry out more extensive missions. A concrete expression of this support is also Norway’s construction of a garrison for the Afghan army in Faryab in 2006. This is a prerequisite for the Afghan army to have a permanent presence in the Faryab province. Norway and other NATO allies have also been asked for material support for the Afghan army. From the Norwegian side we follow up the request and now donate winter equipment and weapons. The debate has commented on the geographical limitation of the Soria Moria Declaration. I would like to stress that the Soria Moria Declaration does not mention geographical constraints, but it is explicitly stated that the Government is to bet on the commitment to ISAF and terminate its commitment to Operation Enduring Freedom. As for where we have forces in North Afghanistan, it was actually the previous government that decided that we should both go in and take over the stabilisation team in Meymaneh, and that we should take over the rapid reaction force in Mazar-e-Sharif. As far as the rapid reaction force is concerned, we will close that activity at the end of June and strengthen the presence in Faryab. We see that there is a need to strengthen security there because of the lack of international presence south of Faryab - just to prevent rebel groups from spreading northwards. In addition, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has also stressed, we need to strengthen our presence with special forces in Kabul. The head of the Defence Committee expressed concern that we should use Norwegian forces that we could use in Afghanistan, elsewhere. I can assure you that the ISAF operation is our first priority. It was precisely that we should not burden the Army even more, that we planned an engineering force for a possible UN operation in Darfur - which unfortunately we were not allowed to use. Unfortunately, too many civilians still lose their lives as a result of fighting in Afghanistan. Any loss of civil life is tragic and a burden on the credibility of both the Afghan authorities and the international community in the Afghan population. Let me stress that this is also taken in the greatest seriousness. A number of measures have been taken by NATO to reduce the possibility of civil losses. But at the same time, it is important to stress that the main gravity of civilian losses is caused by the Taliban and other armed groups. An example of this in the area of Norwegian forces is the attack in Baghlan, northern Afghanistan, last November, which killed over 60 civilians, including many school children and representatives of the Afghan National Assembly. The acts of terrorism in Afghanistan are very serious and it is important that they are combated in order for Afghan authorities and international efforts to have the necessary popular support. The Afghans themselves consider security to be the most important thing in the future. That is why there is currently no alternative to a comprehensive and robust international military presence. At the same time, a broad approach is crucial, where military and civil efforts are seen together. In addition, through this overall effort, a political solution must be put in place with national reconciliation towards those groups that need to be open to it. Reconciliation is a demanding process, which will take time, and it is important that we actively contribute until a lasting solution is established for Afghanistan. Finally, I would like to stress that the Norwegian personnel serving in the ISAF team are doing a very good job for the future of Afghanistan. We should be proud of the Norwegian forces' management of this very demanding and complex task. For our soldiers and our civilian personnel in Afghanistan, Stortingen's support means a lot.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1818	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1821	A lot has been said, and it seems that consensus is great and good in this difficult and challenging case - both for Norway and for other countries participating in Afghanistan. Of many things that interest me in this assignment, the training and not least the equipment we give our Norwegian girls and boys when they are down to do their service. Can the Council of State say anything about whether we are on track in terms of equipment and its improvement? My question will be whether there is a lack of money, or whether the market cannot offer what we want, for example. in the case of a better car park, both armoured and unenforced, than the one we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1827	The equipment of our forces engaged in international operations, including in Afghanistan, is our first priority. We have always said that it should not be on money to allow our soldiers in the field to get the best equipment. In terms of vehicle use, we have a mixture of armored and unanswered vehicles. It is also appropriate. It is the present military commander at the various locations in Afghanistan who assesses the vehicles to be used at all times. So it is also that there have been long delivery times on armoured vehicles. We are in the same situation as many other nations - we are in a production queue and are waiting for deliveries. We're getting new vehicles in 2008, as the representative of Bredvold knows. But it is quite clear that we are giving high priority to the equipment of our soldiers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1836	I just need an actual clarification from Stortinget's pulpit. We have understood the Government so that the capacity of the Norwegian force to serve in Afghanistan is fully exploited, and on that basis we have made no proposals other than to support the Government's proposals. I just want to know if this view is correct. Or do we have something to go on until the end of 2009?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1843	As I said, and as the chairperson of the Defence Committee is well known, we are quite stretched on our resources in Afghanistan. Now, when we close the commitment to the rapid reaction force in Mazar-e-Sharif, and strengthen the presence in Meymaneh, it's also because the Army has been extremely strained in recent years. Then we complete this with the special forces in Kabul and also with training teams for training the Afghan army. I would say that Norway has every reason to be proud of its contribution in Afghanistan. We contribute heavily, and we also contribute in the areas for which there is a need.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1850	The State Council of Ström-Erichsen has previously made a broad presentation to the Stortinget on the medical coverage of Norwegian forces in Afghanistan. Can the Council of State on this occasion tell the Storting about the follow-up to these measures and how she assesses the situation at the moment?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1855	As we know for Stortinget, we have had an agreement with, among other things, Ullevål which has secured us surgical capacity in Meymaneh until 1 April. It is now clear that we have surgical capacity, or doctors, on the plan until 1 June. In the case of a general practitioner in the rapid reaction force, the situation is the same there, except that we lack doctors for two weeks, in weeks 12 and 13. We're working on getting it into place, and we're assuming it's going to be okay. There we are also in the situation that we can borrow German doctors if necessary. But we expect to get our own games there as well. As far as the long-term is concerned, these days we are entering into agreements with several Norwegian hospitals to hire our own doctors, specialists, who can rotate to Afghanistan and who can also serve at the hospitals around. It should be for the best for both national health care and defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1864	Many countries have restrictions on the scope of their soldiers in Afghanistan, including Norway. Jan Egeland says in a newspaper interview that he understands that both the Canadians and the runners now want to get out because of the difficulties in the south. They want other countries to take over the heaviest tasks in South Afghanistan. Does the Council agree that the restrictions may impede the continuity of NATO operations in South Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1871	Obviously, restrictions can be an obstacle. But if this is to be seen as an invitation to Norway, I would say that in terms of our stabilisation force, which we are now betting the most on, and where, when we get a helicopter, along with Latvia, we will have about. 350 soldiers, it is such that it cannot be moved to South Afghanistan. It must work in the Faryab province. It would be very unfortunate if they were to let go of what they have in their hands there, and travel to South Afghanistan. Just like this is organized, you have to complete the assignment there. Just because there is no international presence south of Faryab, rebel groups - the Taliban and other rebel groups - have established themselves south of Faryab. It is important for the Norwegian forces, and those who are there, to prevent these rebel groups from spreading. But in the case of our rapid reaction force in the north, it has been quite clear that if there is a crisis situation elsewhere, it can also be used there. But until now this has not been the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1876	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1879	The Labour Party believes that when we participate in international operations in Afghanistan, there are two main reasons for this. First of all, it's about solidarity with people who don't have it as well as we do at home. The second reason why we're taking part is because of our own security. Norwegian soldiers are in Afghanistan to stabilise the country and contribute to security. We are there to provide the nation's population with education, health care and other basic services. We're there to give the country a better system of governance. We are there because the United Nations and NATO have asked for it, and because the legitimately elected Afghan government has asked us to do so. In September, the Defence Committee was on a comitology mission in Afghanistan and visited, among other things. Our soldiers in Kabul, Meymaneh and Mazar-e-Sharif. It was a strong experience. Experience such a poor country, where the safety of its inhabitants is unstable, makes sense - and it should just be lacking. The positive thing about the trip was to meet our Norwegian soldiers, who had clear views that they were there to stabilize the country, so that it could be rebuilt after decades of wars and become a country without war and misery. The soldiers we talked to believed that it was possible, but they did not hide the many challenges facing them and us and the Afghan people. In the focus of last week we also saw and heard a gripping story about Kristoffer Sørli Jørgensen's clear perception - before he was killed by a road bomb - that the mission he was on was meaningful and would give the Afghans a better life in the future. Then, unfortunately, security in Afghanistan is still unstable, and in deterioration perhaps in some places. Worst is certainly the situation in the south, but there are also major security challenges in the north, where our soldiers are holding. Example of how the security situation is, we also received a tragic reminder when Carsten Thomassen was shot and killed in the area that was thought to be the safest in Kabul. Although we see a negative development somewhere right now, the Labour Party believes that it is very important that we do not give up. Then the Taliban will again take power, and the Afghan population will be the one who will suffer. At the same time, Afghanistan will again be a haven for terrorists. All in all, the Afghan people have the safer in everyday life now than before. It is NATO's efforts that contribute greatly to it, in addition to the assistance that is also provided. Despite the safety challenges, there is a lot of positive development, which is worth drawing out. As an example of this, I would like to stress that since 2001, international society has contributed DKK 160 billion. This year, Norway is increasing its aid contribution to 750 million. kr, is good. Nearly 5 million refugees - as many as live in Norway - have been able to return. 83 pst. At present, the population has access to healthcare, almost none in 2001. The girls go to school. Almost 80 pst. vaccines have been given to children under 5 years of age. Income per year the population has doubled in three years. Roads are being built, and an increasing proportion of the population now have access to clean water. It's moving slowly forward. This positive development could not have happened if NATO had not been there and contributed with certainty that other actors could contribute to better living conditions for the Afghan people. From what you can read and hear in the media, a few impressions can be that we are involved in a hopeless project. That's wrong. That is why it is good that a large majority of the people support our commitment. We have also heard during the debate here that there is unanimity on this in the Stortinget. Not least, it is important for the soldiers that we stand united behind the efforts they make. It's very demanding, it's long-term, and we can't hope for fast solutions, but hopelessly it isn't. There are positive things happening every day. It is absolutely possible to move Afghanistan to a country in peace, with a functioning health system and roads and schools for all. It'll take time, but we have to run out of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1902	There is no doubt that this debate is very important, and it shows, among other things. the importance of contributing to international stability and peace in Norway, and not least to building democracies in countries that do not have the tradition of doing so. What is perhaps most important is to give a homage to all the Northmen who contribute to it, it be through military contributions or civil contributions. I also want to give a tribute to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the clarity of the time horizon and the commitments that Norway has obviously made. Building a democracy and building a state according to the model of what the European countries have takes time. Only the time factor can help make this possible. If anything else happens, the values of which the West is proud and which the West wants to point out in the construction of democracy will be reached to those degrees. How will the Afghans who see the value of the contributions we make experience it if we turn our backs on them and leave them again? Should we leave them to a terrorist regime again? It would be horrific, and it would be far on the road inhumane in relation to the efforts we have already made. At the same time, there is another factor that concerns the undersigned, and I hope that the Minister for Foreign Affairs can take with him and make an assessment of it. Not least the experience of the war in ex-Yugoslavia, where there were many heavy, central actors running parallel, but not constant inputs. The EU had its approach to it, others also had their approach. Sometimes I had the impression that I was driving too much solo and had too little coordination. To succeed in such a difficult task as to establish lasting peace in Afghanistan, I am not in doubt that all heavy players must contribute to a common goal. Then you cannot have individual organisations or others that have their own private targets, which again hit the whole. So I hope that not least the Minister of Foreign Affairs focuses on it and makes sure to give notice, not least from a Norwegian point of view, that we have a common goal, and that it is important that everyone moves in the same direction. In the long run, it will serve Norway as a peace nation, and of course it will serve the Afghans who look forward to a system of modeling what the West stands for.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1911	The Minister of Foreign Affairs has presented the challenges in Afghanistan and the improvements we have seen in some areas in an excellent way. At the same time, we must remember that the precarious humanitarian situation of the Taliban was not the reason for this operation. The reason for the operation was security. Afghanistan was not to be a haven for international terrorists. This has created instability throughout the region. We have to recognize that the presence is going to be long-lasting. However, I am pleased that the Foreign Minister so strongly stresses the need for an exit strategy. We would like to have a debate on NATO's strategy. That's what the Norwegian government has done since it took over. There is no doubt that parts of the strategy have not achieved the objectives we want. Civil life has been lost. Afghanistan is far from stabilised and the security situation is fragile in many areas. This is not a new discussion. The discussion goes internally in all countries that contribute to the ISAF force, and is something that is openly discussed in all NATO countries and in the organs of NATO. Now, the goal is for the UN to become more involved in development and to have a broader responsibility for coordination, and for more non-NATO countries to be involved. But those who now argue that NATO has to get out and the United Nations has a position that, in my opinion, creates great difficulties for the United Nations. The UN has given NATO a clear and unambiguous mandate. I wonder if those who believe that the UN must enter and NATO must leave really believe that Norway is now going to the Security Council, proposing to send UN soldiers into this very demanding situation. I believe that if we send the UN into the difficult situation we see today in Afghanistan, we will in reality weaken the authority of the Security Council. Those who believe that the UN should lead a military effort now need to ask themselves the question of using the UN peacekeeping forces is the best way to provide security in a situation where we face a very offensive and targeted opponent who does not miss out. It may well be that in a few years' time we will be in a situation where it will be natural for the United Nations peacekeeping forces to enter. But now, when we still do not have a peace we can protect, it will be devastating for the mandate that the world community has joined to bring security and stability to Afghanistan. Fortunately, this is not a problem that is being debated in UN circles and among the UN Member States. The strategy in Afghanistan must not be overshadowed by old back ground reflections against NATO, but based on a clear follow-up to decisions of the UN Security Council, and because we support the UN Security Council decision, Norwegian soldiers will continue to contribute in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1927	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1932]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1942	The main objective of this Communication, as set out in the introduction to the suspension, is to provide a good strategy for cooperation between defence and industry. In my view, an overall committee has reached a positive conclusion here. After several debates and discussions in the Committee, with different views and approaches, as it should be in order to achieve a good result, we have fallen into it. We have received good input through the hearing. We have listened to business and employee organisations. We hope we have succeeded, so that the parties, both industry and defence, can be satisfied. The Committee has been committed to highlighting the importance of an early dialogue between defence and industry. It may be crucial for the Norwegian industry that the Defence Agency identifies as early as possible the industrial needs in which the Norwegian industry can be involved. This just underlines the importance of an early dialogue between the parties. It will also strengthen something as significant as the Norwegian industry's ability to participate in development and material cooperation at international level. The Committee also stresses the importance of accessing Norwegian industry to material cooperation and logistical cooperation with NATO and EU bodies in relation to projects. As Norway is not a member of the EU, the Government is therefore invited to take the initiative to participate in EU material and procurement projects. The Committee has highlighted the signal effect of the use of Norwegian industry for development and delivery to the Defence and therefore considers it important that this is achieved through material acquisitions. The Committee would stress the importance of repurchase and considers that repurchase is strengthened by lowering the threshold to 50 million. kr. In the opinion of the Committee, this is a strengthening and strong signal to the Norwegian industry and will contribute to the positive development of Norwegian high technology, including in the future. in view of the large material assets that hopefully come in the next few years. It is of great importance that Norwegian industry benefits from repurchases in connection with the acquisition of new fighter aircraft. The Committee also refers to the results obtained as a result of repurchases in the acquisition of the new frigates. The Committee sees the importance of the defence of the acquisition of new missile torpedo boats promoting such a high-tech vessel against the defence of other nations and demonstrates how the Norwegian industry has been synergizing this project, inter alia. through the development of NSM, communication equipment and radar related to the development and delivery of new missile torpedo boats. The Committee has, as it goes on to say, ‘remarked the speciality of the defence industry by the fact that this type of industry has a special market and a special political position in relation to whom to cooperate and sell’. The Committee considers it important that defence continues to promote Norwegian industrial partners in the context of new projects and acquisitions. As part of the basic work on the notification, it was entrusted to the Defence Research Institute to assess the industrial policy aspects of the acquisition of the Defence. The Committee notes that the steering group led by the Ministry of Defence has had central members from industry, workers and the Defence. The members of the steering group joined the main strands of the report’s strategy proposals. The Committee does.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1963	The President expects Storting's meeting to go over a little bit later. 16 to complete today's map at the morning's meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1966	St.meld. No 38 for 2006-2007 is a strategy for cooperation between defence and industry in Norway. The strategy shall contribute to further developing the competence of the Norwegian industry to support the material needs of the defence industry, strengthen the opportunities of the Norwegian industry to participate in international material cooperation and ensure that Norwegian enterprises are best placed to provide material and services to the Defence when deemed appropriate. This is a follow-up to the Soria Moria Declaration, emphasising the need to give business stable, predictable and competitive framework conditions and the involvement of the State in business-employee partnerships. The Government will review the procurement procedures for defence equipment with a view to a procurement policy ensuring repurchase agreements and consistent with Norwegian foreign policy objectives. Based on the needs of the defence, the strategy presented for the industrial policy aspects of the acquisition of the defence will contribute to increased national value creation and development of a competitive business and ensure the defence of the necessary access to competences, material and services. Furthermore, strategic cooperation between defence, research and development environments and industry, based on the needs of defence, will be strengthened. The key elements of the Government’s strategy proposal are the development of an action plan for cooperation between defence and industry in Norway and the establishment of joint meeting places for them. Further, it is, among other things, two key elements of this strategy I would like to highlight. The first element is early dialogue between defence and industry. This ensures that Norwegian industry can be used at an early stage for development and materialised defence. It must be emphasised that this early dialogue is to be practised in accordance with the EEA Code of Conduct and the Procurement Code of Defence and the Ministry of Defence's ethical guidelines for business contacts in the defence sector. The second important element is that repurchase is strengthened, and the threshold is lowered from 75 million. NOK 50 million. kr. This means that a greater proportion of Norwegian industry is benefiting from the buy-back scheme. It is also a strong signal to the Norwegian industry and will contribute to the positive development of Norwegian high technology in the coming years. In conclusion, I would therefore also like to point out that during the hearing in the Committee, there was a clear signal from both employers and workers in industry that they were very pleased with and supported by the Government's proposal for a strategy for cooperation between defence and industry in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1985	I will be honest enough and say that I am a little uncertain about what I get out of this matter. This is partly because we are about to enter into a thorough process on the future of defence, where one of the main points is that in the field of defence we have a special price development that is so serious that we have to get a different write-up of the defence budget than other budgets, and this is not least due to developments in defence material prices. It is a problem that is not at all discussed in this Communication, so it is clearly something that belongs to a completely different world. So I just need to say a few things. One is that, as the setting shows, I am enough of those who are more skeptical to the repurchase house than there are very many others. But I admit that Norway is too small a buyer for us to reverse this system, and therefore will not oppose it. The second is that the limit of repurchase now lowered is not, as Signe Eye suggested, a difficult matter. To me it stands as a rather modest matter, and here I support the figures contained in the message. It'll be more of a hip-hop question. And the third is that I'm not sure what this early dialogue will mean. It seems reasonable, but it needs to be practised in such a way that it does not fail to maintain cost-effectiveness in a lifetime perspective such as the overarching assessment. We need to get control of the special cost developments in defence equipment, otherwise we'll reinforce our problems. I hope that we now manage this message just with that in mind.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e1996	The government has presented a strategy for cooperation between defence and industry in Norway with this big business message. I am pleased that, after all, an overall committee is in favour of the strategy. This is important for both defence and industry. The Government's strategy aims are to help further develop the competence of the Norwegian industry to support the material needs of the defence industry and to strengthen Norwegian industry's ability to participate internationally in material cooperation. The strategy shall also ensure that Norwegian enterprises are best placed to deliver material and services to the Defence, where deemed appropriate, without compromising the competition requirements of the procurement legislation. In my dialogue with industry, this very point of early dialogue and meeting places has been important to highlight. The Ministry of Defence will work to ensure that the Defence and Industry exchange information on the industrial opportunities available at the earliest opportunity when the Defence shall have acquisitions. A condition for relevant suppliers in Norway to be able to offer appropriate material, competence or services to the Defence Service is that industry understands what defence needs. This will be possible in an early dialogue, where defence and industry will be given opportunities to study different ideas and solutions together. Meeting places will be established where this can be done. The Ministry of Defence's ethical guidelines for business contacts in the defence sector are fundamental to cooperation. There are in particular three factors that have been involved and shaped the Norwegian defence industry in the last ten years. The first is close cooperation between the Defence Research Institute and the defence industry, which has resulted in innovative and technologically advanced products meeting the defence requirements and needs. The vast majority of these products have proved their competitiveness in the global defence market by the fact that they have repeatedly been preferred by other countries. This cooperation we want to continue. The second factor has been repurchase. Repurchase creates market access to otherwise closed markets and has opened up a significant technology transfer to Norwegian industry. It has also been important for industry that we now, as the Stortinget has joined, lower the buy-back threshold from 75 million. NOK 50 million. kr. The third factor that has been positive is that Norway has had a relatively high degree of competition in defence acquisitions, compared with many other countries. This has helped our industry to become competitive as well, and we are going to develop this advantage further.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e2019	Several have not asked for the floor and the debate on substance. 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e2032	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e2068	In Case No: 3 and 4 there is no votering theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e2076	The President will propose that the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on a coordinated plan for Norway’s contribution to Afghanistan be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-05.ana.ud475e2162	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
