ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-2.ana.ud1625e27	There were several people who, at this morning's meeting, were afraid that we would end today's debate without answering the question of the interpellation, i.e. that we would not get an answer as to whether the Government will honour the promise to offer electricity to the industry at below market prices. That fear is completely unfounded. The debate we have had today has given a clear and unambiguous answer, and the answer is this: this election promise has been cancelled, there will be no new round of power to the industry below market prices. So, as you can see, this interpellant debate has given us a clear explanation. The question that is the topic of the interpellation debate was also a very central issue during the election campaign before the last major elections. We are many who believe that precisely this matter and the lines of conflict that were drawn up may have had an impact on the distribution of mandates in several states and thus also had an impact on the kind of government options that prevailed. We can establish that the red-green parties and their representatives used this matter rawly, and that the message was not to misunderstand. I had the pleasure of debating industrial power, among other things. in the house of the people in Sauda. There was no one in the room who could be in doubt that the red-green parties guaranteed a new power regime quickly and effectively if it was a government shift. And ask everyone who has their business related to Hydro's factory in Karmøy if they were least in doubt about what was going to happen if the red-green parties came to government. The message was unique. There were supposed to be favourable industrial contracts, there was legal and political room for action that made this possible - it was a matter of will, and it was to be acted very quickly. Now we know that this wasn't just political trickery. We know that many who uttered this unique message knew better. Today, we're as far away from finding a solution to what was going to happen quickly and effectively if it was a government change, as we were two and a half years ago. And it's actually so that for many who have waited in good faith, the situation is more difficult when you're going to go into the market and try to get a solution with a contract than if you had acted a couple-three years ago and not believed in the promises of the red-green politicians. The history of this matter is that almost ten years ago in this room we almost unanimously concluded that the time for the social power contracts was over. It was a clear message, not least the Workers' Party's people, that businesses had to go into the market and find a long-term solution. Then there were signals from some parties that it would nevertheless be an opening. There has been a very little happy entry into this case, which has made hurt worse for many companies. Then I register today that a new package has arrived, which should be an alternative to cheaper contracts. Firstly, there is nothing new in what is being presented today in this package, except that the Council of State, together with representatives from LO and NHO, is going on a study trip. But all the other elements are well-known and are not at all a promise when one said that one would get government-determined power contracts. I now hope that the largest possible company will find a solution in the market. But I am certain that because the red-green parties chose to use this matter in the election campaign as they did, it has cost the industry dearly, and it has put politics in jeopardy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-2.ana.ud1625e42	There have been several headlines in the media in the last two years, in which the bourgeois parties in particular have expressed their opinion on a ‘red-green industrial power wave’. This is not near the truth, so I'm glad that the representative Kristiansen is raising this interpellation today, so that we get rid of these ever-recurring untruths once and for all. The red-green government has always worked to find solutions for the powerful industry in Norway, which the previous government had given up, because it thought it was impossible in relation to ESA and the legislation there. One thing is to spend time on one thing, another thing is to give up. We have known for many years that politically determined power prices are not compatible with the ESA legislation, because these are subsidies from the state, but it is important to find other mechanisms that can help the Norwegian industry remain competitive in the market. The proximity and availability of power under long-term competitive conditions has been crucial for establishment, not least in the districts. Today, this industry is world leader in efficient energy use and eco-efficient production, and environmental efficiency must continue. This industry has created regional development, economic growth and significant tax revenues for the host municipalities. It is still important that this type of industry has good competitive conditions compared to competing industries abroad in order to remain in Norway. Predictable and not least long-term framework conditions are keywords in this context. In 2011, the last policy-defined contracts expire, and by then we must have provided other solutions, especially for the 20 pst. who do not have agreements today, but also for the 80 pst. that have contracts ending in 2020. I'm glad that we red-green now have gathered some threads and see some solutions for this type of industry, where over 25 000 people have their daily work, and where we know that it's worth up to 25 billion kroner in investments if you get predictable and long-term agreements. The proposals for solutions that Haga has now outlined are very important criteria for finally achieving a final solution to which industry itself, the organisations, the state and not least ESA can join. The fact that Statkraft is now involved in a discussion about contracts on commercial terms says a lot about the willingness to find solutions through the state's own ownership. The valuations to be made in relation to depreciation will be important for initial investments and reductions in network rentals will be long-term measures. The most important thing is long-term, is the message from people in the industry. The red-green government has always said that it will have a good and close cooperation with the business community, and this is important now in the interview to find solutions for the industry. As I said at the outset, this industry is capable of energy use and eco-efficient production, but of course it can be even better at environmental measures and energy saving. However, it requires good support schemes. I want the Council of State, the LO and the NHO to take a good turn in Europe to look at other people's industrial power solutions, and I am sure that a common understanding of how other countries solve the problems will give us results. But it's urgent.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-2.ana.ud1625e68	I'm not going to hide that I'm disappointed with the content of the Council of State's posts when I know that the current government went to the elections on and in large letters promised that the industrial power regime would be arranged in a very short time - if they just came to power. I myself met the oil and energy minister in August 2006, where the government not only promised, but in fact was the guarantor and the clock that a good solution for the industrial power regime would be in place in the new year 2007. Now - one year later and after fourteen questions from the representatives of the Progress Party - the Minister for Oil and Energy comes up with a plan for how the Government will provide the industry with electricity at favourable prices. The plan, which is under pressure in the newspaper today, contains no solutions in my view. It contains nothing but new investigations and assessments - so no new things in the world. This is quite incredible for me in view of the election promises that were given, and in view of the consequences for, among other things. several hundred jobs in Hydro Karmøy factories and the workplaces of related enterprises, which are at risk of closure. What this uncertainty means for the employees and their families, can each think about--I could probably emancipate it for several hours. In this plan, too, there is nothing to suggest that investments of up to 7 billion kroner of a new K6, which will replace the Søderberg ovens, will be carried out at Hydro Karmøy. The only new thing I see is that the oil and energy minister is inviting representatives from LO and NHO to study to find solutions to cheap power for industry. I think that study trip is late. After all, the government has been sitting for two and a half years, and a solution to the industrial power regime was an essential reason why it became a red-green government. Industry - the workers and their families - needs clarifications now, not further investigations. But now let this also be said: this applies not only to the closure and deflagration of jobs at Hydro Karmøy, but also to other Norwegian industries. I do not think this has been taken over by the Government. Finally, what does the Minister for Oil and Energy mean that industry is encouraged to cooperate on joint power generation? Does this mean that the Government is in favour of private ownership of hydropower plants, such as the Radio 102 local radio on Haugalandet, on their websites today, where they are doing well to ensure that the Minister of Oil and Energy answers that private ownership is still legal in Norway? I'm very excited about the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-2.ana.ud1625e79	I have a lot of understanding that the opposition is trying to appear offensive, a little on its own, and maybe a little on behalf of the industry. I still think what characterizes the opposition most now is that they strongly defend the conclusions they made in the previous period - once again through this interpellation debate. Then they basically defend the passivity over something else. The passivity they showed in the last period, they were proud of, and they were satisfied with it, and therefore I can see that they are now trying to appear offensive. That Right and Ivar Kristiansen also want to present our promise of long-term and predictable power agreements as a breach of promise, I understand well, but I think right this time is too early with their prophecies. But one can ask questions by some of the Right Motivation to pull up this interpellation debate, and also by the commitment they have had for two and a half years now, by trying everything they can, to prevent a get a system that ensures long-termity around our industry. On January 18th, Røres Ivar Kristiansen told Norwegian Industry that we have lost “billions of waiting”. Yes, then a trick must be what they would have lost if the previous government had been allowed to continue their work. For then the conclusions were clear that an industrial power system, a desired non-long-term and predictable framework conditions in power agreements in the field of industry, did not want. They had concluded that, and they were kind of satisfied with that. Then a question might be asked, if that government had been allowed to continue, about what opportunities are attached to loss, and what are limitations in the future. So it is said that nothing has been done. Well, a lot has been done with regard to the framework conditions for the industry. It would have been a thought experiment to imagine the previous government continued into this period, and what the climate quota system would have looked like. We've been heavily criticized for being too kind to the industry, they're getting away cheaply. Yes, there would have been a considerable cost pressure on the industry we are now talking about, and we are trying to create good framework conditions for it. What I feel is that the Right and Opposition are doing is substantiating their own inaction over the previous period. In addition, Skovholt Gitmark tries to present it as if you've been talking about a desire to set government-based prices. Yes, that debate ended in the 1990s, that one. It hasn't been there since. That Skovholt Gitmark hasn't brought it, one must almost regret it, but it at least testifies that he hasn't been very involved in the debate that is going on around industrial power and the systems associated with it. So also Right Ivar Kristiansen makes the false claim that nothing has been done. Well, it's done a lot. Not least, the Minister of Industry and the Government, through the ownership notification, have in fact prepared in a way the basis for State power to take responsibility for this type of business and for this type of power agreement, which is large in scope and requires long-term sustainability. It wasn't there in the last period. On the contrary, it was a total passivity when it applied to the use of state tools, including Statkraft. Then there was a backward attitude, where one should initially not have any opinion about how one would run the state companies. If there's anything on the right side that has spent time and effort for two and a half years now, it's a criticism of today's government that it chooses to use state companies and government tools to develop something in this country. And then they're criticizing that it's not going to go down completely. But there has been a significant change in what is now available. The Council of State now promotes eight areas of importance for the continued predictability and long-term framework conditions of the powerful industry in Norway. Yeah, so Ivar Kristiansen says he takes that as a matter of course. That's when I ask the question: why wasn't that obvious in the last period? Because it really wasn't. There are new areas of action with which the Government comes and makes it visible and which are potential perspectives. Instead of criticizing now, the Right should really applaud and in a way be involved. We want to protect this industry because it stands for significant value creation, because it is about skills and technology-promoting companies. And not least in relation to the climate issue, it is essential that this industry remains in Norway. So there's a significant difference: we're doing something. We were going to be longer. We're not quite in the goal yet, but we still have some time to deal with the passivity that existed in the last period.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-2.ana.ud1625e94	There is a saying that they hang high, and far they fall, and that saying fits incredibly well on the handling of this matter by the red-green parties. In fact, the promise of prices to power-intensive industries below market prices is one of the most serious promises I have had in the world of politics. Workers' party tops went on torches in Mo in Rana and promised the Rana community power prices below market price. In Sørfold, the Stable Representative Torny Pedersen was very active and promised the same thing: Only you vote in the Workers' Party, government-determined power prices will come into place in a short time. She was so persuasive that the director Hilde Rolandsen at Elkem Salten in Sørfold signed up for the Workers' Party and boasted of what the Workers' Party was going to deliver. That pipe has got a different sound. It was a trick. Listen to what the Workers' Party's Tor Arne Stroem said to Rana Blad on 14 September: In Northernland - and especially in Rana maybe - it was probably the power pricing regime that helped them make such a good choice. We heard the answer from the Council of State. What does she say? Well, she says, we're very concerned about what we're going with, and we've given it a lot of attention. But that was not what the Workers' Party and the Senter Party promised - it was prices that were below the market price. It's said by the representatives of the red-green majority to the interpellant Ivar Kristiansen that Right didn't see any possibilities. It's possible they didn't. But it's the red-green parties that have implemented and delivered nothing. It is a bit irritating to see that there are still large-scale representatives from the Workers' Party who travel around with high cigars and give the impression that they have not given up, that they are still working on the matter of government-determined power prices. It is expressly stated here by the Council of State that this is not the case, and I hope the representatives of the Labour Party got it with them. The election promise has been cancelled. So several of the red-greens claim that this is just criticism from the opposition, and that we don't come up with any solutions. But that's completely wrong. It's directly untrue, and it's an attempt to cover up your own inescapability. Because it is fairly clear that the more force one sends into the market, the lower the price. The Progress Party has repeatedly proposed the development of power plants. I just mention Wefsna, Beiarn and Melfjord-- and there's only some places in Northernland where the expansion is ready, it's just starting. More expansion and better use of hydropower would have led to a lower price of power, a lower price that would also confer benefits to the power-intensive industry and to the inhabitants of that country. This is a case which, to those degrees, has shown that the red-green parts have met themselves in the door and shown an action paralysis without a side. The solution at a lower power price is in the day, or rather in the rivers. It's just to use them, but to that it takes will and action. Today's government has none of the parts in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-2.ana.ud1625e111	I think today's participants from the red-green parties in the debate must have asked themselves the question when they have temporarily turned up the volume relatively strongly: why did they promote the proposal to phase out the time of government prices by 2000 at the latest? Why did they do that? Why did they get it adopted? Today's interpellant debate has shown one thing. It is that the election vows presented by the red-greens in the 2005 election campaign have in many ways contributed to blocking new agreements. One cannot come and wave with Statkraft in this debate and say that this is our most important institution and our most important instrument for solving the challenges, when Statkraft has almost not signed a single industrial power agreement after the red-green took over. Then you go around and say that Statkraft is in good conversation. Yes, it has been said since 2005. In the previous growing period, industrial power agreements, commercial ones, corresponding to 15 TWh were concluded. That's a lot. Then the red-green ones can sum up what happened after they took over. This is what concerns the Norwegian powerful industry at the moment, that it has been leaning back and waiting for the government to deliver. I'm not going to spend time commenting on the assertions that No Marte Thorkildsen or anyone else is sitting and insulting after today's debate, or that I'm going to go wrong. I am allowed to leave these claims to employees in the Norwegian industry, who have been sitting and waiting for a new power regime. They can assess whether there's any kind of falsehood we're dealing with, or anything else. In addition, when it is now presented to the Norwegian industry that a fall-back institute is to be set up to take away two of the locomotives, Elkem and Hydro, the hand they have around a significant part of the power that goes to the power-intensive industry, I don't think employees, owners and communities have any reason to feel particularly reassured today, nor over the eight points that are incidentally promoted today. And then you let the debate be about who has the greatest will - just as if that was what you wrote about in August 2005. No, this is not a circuit championship of the greatest will! Then you ask what kind of solutions we have. We've played with open cards. It might be a solution in the future to avoid this type of election bell and rather play with open cards to those who are affected by these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-2.ana.ud1625e120	This has been in many ways a relatively strange interpellation debate in the sense that the interpellant has used this round to underline what the Right does not want. It has been clearly demonstrated that the Right has no ambitions on behalf of the powerful industry. Neither did the Christian People's Party and the Left when they were in government. I can only refer to Innst. S. No 213 for 2004-2005. It is particularly important to hear the interpellant requesting signals about long-term power contracts. It is simply to read the ownership message. I have quoted from it during this debate. It says that Statekraft has the task of securing good, long-term, commercial power agreements with individual adaptation. We follow this up on a continuous basis. Dag Terje Andersen, Minister of Industry, has had talks with Statkraft this afternoon. I should have been there, too, if we had just finished this interpellation. So this goes its way. We have to measure according to the results, and those are the contracts that are concluded gradually. It's interesting to hear the Right Representative talk about the need for increased power generation. The right was enormous in terms of power generation in the previous period. That is one of the main reasons why we are struggling with a difficult challenge in Middle Norway in these times. They chose to consume more than they contributed to production. We have presented a number of measures today that span a wide field. It's not necessarily a final list. Further measures may be available on that list. But I must say that it is quite strange to hear various representatives from the opposition say whether the proposed measures should be lacking! It's kind of special to hear that. It's actually this government that's doing something. The EEA Agreement has not changed since we took over. Right did nothing, had no ambitions, had the Christian People's Party and the Left on the team. We, on the other hand, act. What we're going to measure is that we've shown through the measures that come on the table gradually, that we live up to what we talked about in the election campaign, that we have a great heart for the powerful industry. We are going to do what is possible to ensure that the country has this industry in the future as well. I feel very safe after this interpellation debate. There is no other government that would do more for the powerful industry than the red-green.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-2.ana.ud1625e131	The debate on substance is closed. So 8 is over. The President would point out that, in the event of an incurrency, it is contained in the text of case No. 9-12 enter a non-partial name, i.e. Right. So the suggestions are from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-2.ana.ud1625e148	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 2050]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-2.ana.ud1625e165	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 2051]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-2.ana.ud1625e182	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 2051]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-2.ana.ud1625e199	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 2051]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-2.ana.ud1625e216	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 2051]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-2.ana.ud1625e233	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 2051]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-2.ana.ud1625e241	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-2.ana.ud1625e249	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mrs Knudsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal No. 2, from May-Helen Molvær Grimstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party The vote will be taken at the next voting time on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government by regulation to prevent the circumvention of the opening time provisions in the Holidays and Holiday Peace Act.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-2.ana.ud1625e273	There will be a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to bring an action against the repeal of the opening time rules in Law No 24 February 1995. 12 in public holidays and public holidays.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-2.ana.ud1625e292	The progress party has notified that they wish to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-2.ana.ud1625e308	Ten proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1 and 2, by Ulf Erik Knudsen on behalf of the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 3, by Ulf Erik Knudsen on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals No. 4-8, from May-Helen Molvær Grimstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party and Left Proposal No. 9, from May-Helen Molvær Grimstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No. 10, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of Left The vote will be taken at the next voting time on proposal No. Ten from the left. The proposal reads: ‘The decision asks the Government to facilitate the best interests of the child when assessing adoption parents and not the orientation or potential disease risk of the application for adoption.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-2.ana.ud1625e341	There will be a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to assume that the adoption of a child shall be entitled to a mother and a father.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-2.ana.ud1625e356	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 4-7, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate the process of adoption to be less bureaucratic and more predictable, while at the same time asking the Government to facilitate Norway’s efforts to conclude cooperation agreements with several countries and to have a more active role in the preparation of new agreements.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to increase the adoption aid to 1 G’;» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to facilitate the adoption of the test prior to the granting of the permit for dissemination.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to increase operating aid for the adoption association or, in the alternative, to assume greater responsibility for the development of new countries in relation to adoption.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-2.ana.ud1625e388	There will be a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to base its work on the fact that homofiles cannot be accepted as adoptive parents.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-2.ana.ud1625e403	There will be a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to facilitate the granting of free interpretation to deaf adoption parents on adoption journeys.’ The Party of Progress has indicated that they wish to support the proposal in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-2.ana.ud1625e420	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 1 and 2 from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian Party and Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to facilitate a maximum duration of treatment of 9 months for adoption applicants.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to facilitate the possibility of applying for adoption independently of countries recognised.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-2.ana.ud1625e455	17 proposals have been presented during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Jon Hunter Gåsvatn on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right Proposal No. 2-17, by Jon Hunter Gåsvatn on behalf of the Progress Party The vote will be taken at the next voting time on proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for mandatory evaluation of teachers at all Norwegian schools.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-2.ana.ud1625e479	It will then be replaced by an alternative between the recommendation of the Committee and the proposal No. 2-17, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to take action to establish schools with enhanced provision for pupils with special needs and major behavioural problems.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate the provision of an additional financial grant per student to municipalities providing pupils with special needs for organised education inside or outside the ordinary school.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to launch a comprehensive research project to look at the arrangements and effects of today’s special education.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate greater involvement of social professionals in schools and to strengthen cooperation between teachers and professional disciplines with a social professional background or other professional background that can contribute to the creation of a better learning environment.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for financial incentives for schools which, through cooperation between teachers and social professionals, facilitate a better learning environment.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to work to ensure that parents are more involved in the design of measures aimed at improving the learning environment and combating unrest, and that, for example, FUG and Active Parents are involved in this work.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Storting for parent, student and school cooperation to be part of the Training Act.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that training in cooperation between home and school becomes part of teacher training.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the introduction of a free school meal scheme for primary school students before school start in 2008’.» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a separate action plan to combat fighting crime and unrest in Norwegian schools.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that class management becomes an integral part of teacher training.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to undertake post-secondary education within class management for all teachers and will designate funds for the municipalities to be used for this purpose.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for measures to coordinate the efforts of the police and schools and to provide schools with a comprehensive instrument to penalise offenders.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to introduce its own annual price for schools that show excellent improvements in their learning environment.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider setting up an annual prize to be awarded to a teacher who has excelled in a particularly positive way, on a proposal from students, parents, schools or others.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the school owner enforces enforcement of the regulations at each school.’;» The Committee had recommended that: Document No 8:113 [[2006-2007]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-2.ana.ud1625e582	During the debate, Ine Marie Eriksen Søreide has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to launch a nationwide monitoring of the causes and extent of loss of education throughout initial training.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee will be rejected. The Committee had recommended that: Document No 8:5 [[2007-2008]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-2.ana.ud1625e607	During the debate, Ine Marie Eriksen Søreide has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate the establishment of technology gymnasiums as a specialised secondary training offer in real-life subjects.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee will be rejected. The Committee had recommended that: Document No 8:20 [[2007-2008]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-2.ana.ud1625e632	During the debate Åse M. Schmidt put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Grand Government shall submit the necessary legislative changes in order to make written instruction and examination in side-by-side objectives optional.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee will be rejected. The Committee had recommended that: Document No 8:29 [[2007-2008]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-2.ana.ud1625e668	In Case No. 8 introduces no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-2.ana.ud1625e676	The vote will take place on behalf of the Progress Party from the Odelstinget meeting on 7 February 2007. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the introduction of rules so that the aid lawyer scheme also covers some cases in which Norwegian citizens are exposed to serious crimes abroad.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-2.ana.ud1625e695	The vote will take place on behalf of the Progress Party from the Odelstinget meeting on 7 February 2007. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote a roll-call report investigating and problematizing a tripartite system in criminal cases using a model from Sweden and Finland.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-2.ana.ud1625e715	The vote will take place on behalf of the Progress Party from the Odelstinget meeting on 7 February 2007. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose a new provision in the Criminal Enforcement Act that the Public Prosecutor’s Office should be informed in an offended and abandoned order of priority of the decision on acquittal and the amendments taken.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-2.ana.ud1625e734	A vote will be put to the vote on the proposal by Mr Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget’s meeting on 7 February 2007. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and propose a system in which the State defends the civil claims in criminal matters, if the basis for the claim is a deliberate criminal offence.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-2.ana.ud1625e753	A vote will be put to the vote on the proposal by the Grand Representative Elisabeth Aspaker, on behalf of the Right, submitted by the meeting of the Odelsting on 7 February 2007. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Grand Duchy asks the Government of the Revised National Budget to ensure that an offer of aid centres for offended persons becomes nationwide.’ The Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have warned that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-2.ana.ud1625e774	A vote will be put to the vote on the proposal by the Grand Representative Elisabeth Aspaker, on behalf of the Right, submitted by the meeting of the Odelsting on 7 February 2007. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to come back with proposals for an extended alert obligation in line with the proposal of the Conciliation Committee.’ The party of progress, the Christian People's Party and the Left have warned that they want to vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12-2.ana.ud1625e833	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word in relation to § 37a of Stortinget’s Rules of Procedure? - The meeting's been cancelled.
