ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e101	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Lamentations meeting today - and considers it to be adopted. The President will propose Øyvind Halleraker. - Other proposals are not available, and Mr Halleraker is unanimously elected President of today's sitting. I'm asking him to take over the President's office.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e121	There is no record.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e135	No one has asked for the floor. The decision of the Odelsting is therefore endorsed by the Laging. The bill will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e151	No one has asked for the floor. The decision of the Odelsting is therefore endorsed by the Laging. The bill will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e167	The President will not initially propose to restrict debate and change of lines, as is possible under Section 35 of the Rules of Procedure, but will consider this along the way and, where appropriate, propose restrictions. In any case, paragraph 36 of the Rules of Procedure applies. Espen Johnsen has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e172	Under Chapter 6, Section 37 of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to make proposals for the following limitation in speaking time: The number of days is limited to 10 minutes for the first post and 3 minutes for the second post, and up to 5 lines are given according to the main post of each batch and up to 5 lines according to the members of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e179	Bjorn Jacobsen has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e182	I just have a simple and straightforward question. Will voting be called?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e187	That's a good question. We have a ringing system, so we have to do that. The President then received the referenced proposal and found it appropriate, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to put it under a vote. The Espen Johnsens proposal is signed by more than ten representatives, as laid down in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e200	The total amount of the debate will then be as follows: the number of days is limited up to 10 minutes for the first post and 3 minutes for the second post, and up to five repetitions are given after each lot of the principal post and up to five repetitions after members of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e203	Odelstingen made a historic decision on the establishment of common marriage law on Wednesday 11 June. Today, the law will also be dealt with here in Lagting, which has the tradition of having debate primarily in the major issues of principle. This is a major issue, and there has been extensive debate on the law and the individual proposals for it. That's understandable. It is the traditions of the centuries and thus incorporated attitudes that are being challenged. Many of us who today enjoy the new law have also worked along the way with both thoughts and feelings about these questions. But it's for me, as I think it's too many others, so that I think the world should become a better place, attitudes and traditions must constantly be tested against political, intellectual and ethical reflection. Built-in perceptions are broken when life itself comes close and stares at us in the white eye, when we meet people who, by virtue of who they are, show us realities other than those we have the power to see so far. What has shaped my view in this matter is both meeting with individuals and belonging to a society that has understood for the past 30-40 years in particular that fighting for equality and equality is one of the great challenges of our time. In that light, gay and lesbians are a group of people that society has treated very badly. We can hardly imagine the pain and shame many people have had on the road towards openness about their lay. It is almost incredible to think that male homophilia was a criminal offence in 1972, that gay laying was defined as a disease until 1982, and that the partnership law did not come until 1993. At the same time, it is important to see that these years represent important milestones in the process of full acceptance of gay and lesbian lives. And then I'm at one of my main points. What we are challenged to do today is this: are we prepared to recognise gay and lesbian life - including love life - as beautiful, as difficult and as worthy as heterophilic life and life? Are we prepared to say that there should no longer be ranking of people in this country, and that therefore we should not sort people after sexual orientation? If we are ready, it must be that all adult people should have the right to marry, if they want this as a framework for their relationship. If we say no to this, it means that we don't give it as accepted. It is impossible to partially accept homofil and lesbian love. Partial acceptance is a ranking and, in reality, a rejection. So many have argued that it is not discrimination to have one legislation for heterophiles through the marriage institute and one for homosexuals and lesbians through the partnership law. Of course it is discrimination; the word 'discrimination' means discrimination. So sometimes we want to discriminate positively against some groups in order to achieve greater equality for these. But I cannot, with my best will, see that this should be the need here. The vast majority of heterophilic people hardly need the positive discrimination of marriage. Surely no one can seriously claim that marriage becomes less valuable to heterophiles because gay and lesbians have access to it? On the contrary, it must be desirable for as many as possible to have the best arrangement for their lives. And for very many, it's marriage. Then it has been said that the difference between heterophilic relationships and gay/lesbian relationships is that the marriage framework should protect the mother-father-child relationship and that the partnership law is thus better suited for gay and lesbian couples. It's a logic that doesn't hold if it's being tried. First of all, there are many heterophilic couples who can't have or want to have children. Many heterophilic marriages are also concluded at a time in life when it is neither desirable nor possible for the couple to have children. At the same time, there are many homosexuals and lesbians who have children and who are going to have children. Then these children must have the best frames around their lives. Too many people will be married. Several people in this debate have stressed the importance of the biological principle: that as far as possible, children should know and know their biological origin. It is not difficult to agree on such a starting point. At the same time, I have known a very strong concern about the sometimes brutal rhetoric that has been used in this context. Because here we are dealing with very fragile and vulnerable interpersonal relationships. The bond between biological parents and children affects us all strongly and has many aspects that we affect through various political decisions. And we always have to know that very many children don't live in close contact with biological parents -- and that goes across the question of parental orientation. Children who have been adopted from distant places will in very many cases never be able to find their biological origin. And there are children who have become in heterophilic marriages where assisted conception with anonymous donor has been used, before the law was amended in 2005. In other words, the arguments against providing assisted fertilisation to lesbian couples, justified by the fact that the child does not know about biological father before the age of 18, are strange, all the time this reasoning naturally applies to heterophilic couples when the same method is used. The question of biological relationships between parents and children raises issues that need to be addressed in many legislative areas with regard to all kinds of family constellations. This also applies at the other end of the scale when, for example: children who have been under the care of child protection, who stand up and blame the public: why were we not taken before? Why did we have to live with parents who were unable to care for us? Therefore, issues related to biological relationships between parents and children need to be handled wisely. My point is that we're going to be careful about exaggerating what are the optimal growth conditions for any human being. As a society, we must take care of children in all kinds of families. And we can do that at the same time as we have a policy that adds that both men and women can be present in children's lives - in home and family, in neighborhoods, in kindergarten, in leisure and in school. My view in this matter has several starting points: a political position where equality, equality and the fight against oppression are the foundation, while I am committed to a humanistic and Christian heritage I confess. As a member of the Church of State and as a human being who often feels that I need the grace contained in the message of the New Testament, it is my job to respond when injustice and condemnation affect others. And I know that many homosexuals and lesbians have lived their lives in grief because there was not enough roof height in the church they so dearly wanted to belong to. I am therefore pleased that I belong in a diocese, North Holland, where both the bishop and many priests argue that Jesus' message of love calls the Church to humility and acceptance in relation to human life, even when it appears different. I think Sokneprist Leif Bremer in Tromsø puts it so nicely in an article that was written in the newspaper Nordlys for a while back: «Our Christian tradition gives many readings of how to understand creation, life and death, and our way of being a sign of creation, as God's will. ‘... And on the other hand, "For the distant God all are equal and thus equally worthy, but for the God who comes near all are different - and together an expression of God's colorful creation. ‘... It's this church I want to confess to, it's this church I hope will open the doors and all the sacraments of the Church for the diversity that lesbian and gay make up -- God's colorful creation, as Soknepriest Leif Bremer expresses it. I want to end with a story that goes back 45 years in time. One afternoon a man, a friend, came to visit my parents--a man whom the kids had heard was a little 'like', despite his being married. That afternoon a man began to tell about his life, about the terrible and incomparable he strove so hard with. He had tried everything -- become a Christian, read the Bible, and begged the Lord of Spring to take this burden away from him. He had fallen off, married--and turned himself on the bottle. But nothing helped. And I was 12 years old and put together with my parents and heard a strong human witness that from then on changed my view of what it means to be “like” and that gave me an initial insight into what it means to be viewed as different, when this diversity is judged as bad and inferior. A few weeks ago, I sat with my mother and talked about everything that has happened in this area for all the years that have gone on since that time. And my mother, who is 91 years old, said this: I've lived a long and good life with one and the same man, and most people look at it as normal life. But we haven't come to the world to sit on our high horse and say that what's the right life for me should be the right life for you. We have a big task in life, Mom, we're going to treat our fellow human beings with kindness and respect -- that's all I'm sure of. Therefore, I hope that today I can go out of the den and call my mother at Senja and say that today the Lamentations have joined the historic decision of the Odel Sting on 11 June 2008 to introduce common marriage law.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e249	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e252	I don't need to polemize against any of the speakers, because I share most of her general views and approaches. That is why I am going to vote against all the legislative amendments that have been tabled. I cannot see any correlation between these general points of view and the proposals for concrete legislation, which do not affect one law, but four different laws. It is not a matter of marriage law alone. Reference is made in the preparatory work to the existence of five other countries with a common marriage law. That is correct, but none of these five parliaments have been presented with a package solution similar to that presented to the Stortinget. At my discretion, there is no necessary mental or other relationship between the four different legislative changes proposed. Therefore, my question to the representative Knutsen is: does she see a necessary link between these four legislative amendments? And what does the necessary context consist of? Given that she sees it -- while there are quite a few of us others who are unable to see it -- does it not suggest that there would have been an advantage with a normal law-making process?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e262	We are of the opinion that the preparatory process has been good and thorough. I see that there is a clear connection between all these different laws. We're now opening the marriage institute for gay and lesbian, and giving them rights in line with heterophiles. The other legislative changes that are proposed and adopted by Odelstinget also have, as we strongly support, that they take care of both children who are born and children who are born into these circumstances.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e267	I have to be concrete. I want to ask the representative Knutsen if she thinks that one could have secured a better anchoring and a better relationship with a law if one had had it out at the hearing, had a good process, and got into it -- not least in relation to time. When laws are passed and the people are taken to a much greater extent, although perhaps one may disagree with the final decision, it is easier to deal with it because one feels that one has been heard.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e272	I could repeat a little bit of what I said about the previous replicator. We believe that the investigation of the legal process has been good. There have been many departments within the picture, and there have been important and relevant bodies within the process of this law. We also believe that the important aspects of this, namely the equality of homosexuals and lesbians with heterophiles, have had a long process - with the lifting of the penal paragraph for homophilis in 1972, with the repeal of the disease definition of homophilis in 1982, and the 1993 Partnership Act. This is a development that cannot be ascertained. This is a development that has been in this house and in the Norwegian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e277	Like the representative on the payroll, I would like to say that there was a lot in the post from the representative Knutsen that I can sign, and that is common thought, I think. We have only had to reach a completely different conclusion from that of the Labour Party and the representative of Knutsen. I just want to challenge the Knutsen representative on what has happened since the time the Partnership Act was adopted in 1993, when the then Labour Party government said: ‘Marriage is the basic unit of society and the natural framework around the growth of children. Marriage is in a very special position, and marriage between homosexuals is not to be opened. Law on the register partnership will not equate marriage with a registered partnership where exceptions are made for adoption and marriage. The Ministry wants to keep adoption out of the way for the children. ‘... That's what you said at the time. What has happened that does not apply today?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e289	I think what's happened is that the world has moved on -- a little bit ahead. The Partnership Act was very important, and the reasons for it were very important. But what we're doing today is introducing full equality between heterophilic, gay and lesbian. That is why this law is an improvement and a step forward that I would like to welcome - and we would like to endorse - on the strongest.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e296	The representative Knutsen says that now it is the end of the ranking and discrimination of people. But has the Labour Party ranked human beings from 1993, when the law of partnership was signed, and until today? So what is today called discrimination was not discrimination before. I didn't think that argument was entirely correct, and in the odelstingsproposition put forward by the Government, there is no evidence to suggest that furthering the current legislation is discriminatory, but we note that the representatives place a great deal of emphasis on it, even though there is no evidence in the bill to say it. Why couldn't the Labour Party make sure that this matter was dealt with with with by a big message instead of going straight to a law case, or an odelstningsproposition, with the poor distribution work done in advance? So has the Labour Party ranked human beings until today?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e305	I would say that society - and perhaps the political parties as well - has in some way, without wishing it, ranked people after sexual orientation over time. The Partnership Act was a very important step forward. What we're doing today is taking a step further. It's a proper development, and it's a good development. The working party has gone into the brink of that development, and I am very pleased and proud of that today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e312	What is usually needed in law enforcement is the design of the legal texts. There is no serious work done - as far as I can see - at all. I'll be careful to mention one example, and ask the speaker perhaps to take a decision on that. A new provision has been proposed in Section 4, which uses the word ‘maintenance’. “Go ” means on book goals admissions. It's a long tradition for that language, because men need to be forced to admit both one and the other. But I find it difficult to understand the meaning of applying the same concept to the newly invented concept of ‘co-motherhood’. Normally, in Norwegian, you would say 'commit', if that's what you meant. This, however, illustrates the fundamental problem, namely that one has been forced into thinking that there should be exactly equivalent provisions for what is different. Does the representative not see that this can lead to futility?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e319	You can probably have a debate about philological formulations in the law. I believe that the law is good and comprehensive for what we believe it should cover, and understandable in every way. ‘Continuing co-motherhood’ is the acceptance and consent of one’s spouse or partner to be assisted by conception, and when one continues, or assumes, that co-motherhood, one becomes a legal parent no. 2nd@item: inlistbox To me it seems very clear, and I think it is for most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e324	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e327	There's a lot of emotion, there's a lot of interpretations, and there's a lot of commitment. What's better than that? What's better than that we see in the bedroom today that this is one of the few things that we really feel goes close to us as politicians. I think it's a good sign. We are debating today the Odelstingen decision on a new common marriage law for heterophilic and gay couples. The decision - which was adopted last week, as we know - follows the Government's proposal. I want to start by saying that many people view marriage as a sacred institution between men and women. Although marriage is a legal agreement, the Progress Party wants everyone to have the right to believe and claim that marriage is primarily a sacred agreement. Marriage between men and women has deep cultural roots in all societies around the world - regardless of religion and regardless of outlook on life. The government's proposals for changes to the marriage law, the child law, the adoption law and the biotechnology law will break with these historical roots. The Party may not participate in such a breach. In the Odelstingsdebate last Wednesday, it was repeatedly referred to as a historical matter. That is exactly what the Progress Party fully agrees with, but with a quite different sign than many of the other debaters. This case is historical both because it places the rights of adults over the rights of children, because it has been rushed through without proper investigation and without proper treatment, and because it most likely surpasses a majority of the Norwegian population. The Advance Party has a hope that the Creation today will reject all or part of the Odelsting's decision, and we appeal to all of the Creation's representatives to listen to their conscience, to know who they are when they come into their bedroom in the evening and the light is off and no one sees them. It is important to remember that if the case is rejected today, the Government will be given a clear and clear signal to carry out a proper investigation, and the people can say their opinion in the next major elections. That is actually democracy in practice. Odelsting's decision must be the greatest and most fundamental legislative change we've seen in many years. It is not everyday in Stortinget that we deal with issues that change the basic structure on which society has been built since the dawn of time: mother, father and children. In addition to the amendment of the marriage law, the decision of the odelsting also includes amendments to, inter alia, the law on marriage. the adoption law, the biotechnology law and the child law. The aim should be to ensure the rights and quality of life of gay and lesbians. The children--yeah, yes, it may seem like it's not so careful with them. In concrete terms, Lesbian and gay persons are admitted to marriage. They're also allowed to adopt. Lesbian couples also get access to assisted conception, supported by the state budget - that is, by us taxpayers. Autoparenting is introduced after birth for non-biological mother in lesbian marriage in line with heterophilic marriage - a kind of "feed est" as a parallel to "pater est". That the child actually has a father, and needs a father, somewhere, you ignore it. Commitment to live together, stable family relationships and time together provide the best framework for children’s growth. For most children it will be optimal to grow up with both of their biological parents. Of course, the mission is not just care. The government cuts lifelines, removes half the family of the child, and doesn't care about children's basic identity questions: Where do I come from? The proposal also opens up the possibility that church and religious communities can indulge lesbians and gays. For the time being, this is voluntary, but we know in what direction it can go. We in the Progress Party believe it would be totally unacceptable to oblige religious communities to commit homosexuals, and we are afraid that coercion in this field is the next step for the Workers' Party, the Center Party, SV and the Right. Such coercion will be a strong attack on freedom of belief and the Constitution. It's interesting to note the great commitment of the population in this matter. So far we have received several thousand e-mails and letters with protests against the proposal. We've seen protest trains, signature campaigns and advertising campaigns -- a great and broad popular commitment to the law. The interesting thing is that we have only received a handful of requests with support for the proposal. This says a lot about there's no popular requirement behind this. At the same time, it is quite clear that among the thousands of e-mails and enquiries the Stortinget has received, there has been a certain number that have gone far beyond what should be written both for human reasons and for courtesy in an enquiry to another human being. There, I think, in fact, that biging, odelsting and laying, as we are compounded, are entirely in agreement. I think more people in retrospect have gone in themselves and seen that you have actually sanded that knit too far. I take it as an expression of the great commitment that is in the people in this area, that a time has gone too far, but, as I said, many have taken self-criticism. It is relatively clear that the law is a result of lobbying from a small but well-placed lobby in the capital that has its people centrally located in government, in departments, in parties and not least in the national press. The programme of the Progress Party for the 2005-2009 programming period reads as follows: ‘The party will highlight marriage as the most stable and secure framework for a family relationship. However, the Progress Party believes that all people have a clear right to set themselves up in the way they find themselves best, and that this in itself has a self-value. Therefore, the Progress Party will not further regulate the relationship between consensual residents. ‘... It also says: ‘The party of choice is of the opinion that children have the best upbringing by having parents of different sexes, and therefore does not want homosexuals to adopt. ‘... This is our overall view of this matter, and we will therefore go against the bill. The aim of the legislative amendment shall be to ensure the rights and quality of life of homosexuals and lesbians. But is it right to strengthen the rights of some adults, with a background in their sexual orientation, at the expense of the children? The Progress Party believes that the bill clearly violates Article 7.1 of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, which states that the child should have the right to know and care for his or her parents as far as possible, and Article 18.1, which states that both parents have a common responsibility for the child’s education and development. Of course, homosexuals and lesbians should be able to live openly and not be discriminated against. I also think that as a party we can take self-criticism on a part of what has been before. As Tove Karoline Knutsen here said: The world goes on, we learn that sharing with each other is good. But here's something that affects the third party, and that's the child. Those who choose to live in gay couples shall have good and safe arrangements for their lives. We therefore see the importance of the state facilitating this by means of the Partnership Act. This ensures the same level of protection and almost the same rights as marriage partners in partnership. If the Partnership Act does not work that way, it should in fact be amended. It'll probably be the ones who say we're discriminating. However, the Progress Party does not consider it discriminatory to treat heterosexual and homosexual couples differently with regard to children, because of the biological capacity of heterosexual couples to imprison children. Very many people believe that the changes we are discussing today are flawed. That criticism weakens the legitimacy of the law. The Progress Party believes it is critical that the Government has not made this important matter the subject of a proper investigation. Such a case requires a longer and more thorough process involving different disciplines and all relevant societal interests. The last time major changes were made to the marriage law, 20 years were actually used. From the government parties it will be black that the matter has been thoroughly investigated and carefully - we have also heard - through several partial investigations. Here I would like to point out that many people believe that the majority of the investigations on which the law is based are far on the way as an order shop, written by individuals with the same ideological position as the Government, and not as serious, research-based assessments. The Progress Party believes that much better time should be taken in the work on the law - time for debate, professional input and depression in all the premises and consequences of the law. We should recognise that the experience and research of children in gay relationships is so deficient that one should act on the precautionary principle. In an in-depth question of this kind, it is irresponsible to introduce irreversible legislative changes when we have so little knowledge. At the same time, such profound changes in the basic structure of society are a matter of concern to people. Therefore, people should have a real opportunity to express their opinion in a democratic process. The Progress Party believes that it would be natural that the law was not passed until the next major elections, so that everyone could express their opinion. The Party considers that the concept of marriage should continue to be officially concluded and committed together between men and women. I am addressing the proposals on which the Progress Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e398	The representative Åse M. Schmidt has then taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e403	It is not often I quote the programme of the Progress Party, but precisely in this context it is tempting. It's written: ‘The fundamental to the social view of the Progress Party is the belief and respect for the individual’s peculiarity, and the right to decide on his or her own life and economy. Individuals are the largest resource in social development. Together with the family and private ownership [[...]] So the progress party respects the individual's right to decide about his or her own life and family as an institution. That's why it's so hard to understand why the party will limit the gay right to form a family and to have the same legal framework around its life as heterophiles. And so, how can the representative Schmidt say that we, who are behind the law, think that it's not so dangerous with those children, when what we're actually doing, is to strengthen the rights of thousands of children living with gay parents today? What is the representative Schmidt's message to these children today?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e415	What's interesting to see is just focusing on kids like what's important to us. But it's the third party that's actually not being heard, and that's not being asked. It is the unborn life and it is the child who is not involved today. It's not about the rights of gay and lesbians to have children. There is a limit between the biological potential and what is not possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e420	I share, in all material terms, the views of the representative, Schmidt, on the shortcomings in the preparation of the legislative proposals that we are considering today. That is exactly why I feel a certain need to correct her on one point. She was hurt because, as you would like to do when you have a strong commitment to a case, to exaggerate. The last time the marriage legislation was revised, 20 years were not used, only 16 were used. So I'm going to ask the representative Schmidt if we can agree on that point, that is what is the basis for comparison with today's law-makers?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e425	We can agree on that. The most important thing is to show time usage, that you actually came to a wise point of view when you spent time. I would also like to say to the representative of Wage that a country like France, which has actually taken a good time, fell to the point that they did not want to promote the law, as our government has now done.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e434	The representative Schmidt talked about going into a room and turning off the light, and then being there in the darkness and knowing what one really meant. I'm wondering a little bit what this is. What did she mean by that? Is it so that we have different stops when we're in the bedroom in the dark than when we're out in the light? I hope she can explain it to me. And then I wonder how to make sure that everyone is equal, when you know the environment like that. push out homofiles. Stavanger Aftenblad had one thing: "Better dead than gay." How should we preach equality and equality when we do not have a law to show?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e441	I'd like to answer that with feelings in the dark. It's clear that a lot of people get a little bit of guidance on which way to go. We clearly saw that in Odelstinget, how many people had a different opinion were replaced. Therefore, I believe that the members of the Creation must know as a person, as the human being they are elected as, what feels right -- when they don't have to wear the staff phase, when they don't have to be anything else, which someone wants to change with the partisan. So to the last. In my former job I had many gay and lesbian colleagues – and with joy. I don't want to say that equality and equality aren't a big deal among adults, within the law -- it's absolutely top. But in the case of children, there's a limit.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e448	The representative Schmidt began his speech by speaking warmly about the historical and religious position of marriage, although she admitted that marriage is a legal framework around a life. Then I ask: since what each couple put in the meaning of marriage is so individual, how can a draw the conclusion that opening marriage to gay and lesbians makes marriage less valuable to heterofiles who choose marriage as a framework for their lives?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e453	In the first place, perhaps this civilly obligatory marriage that was not linked to religion should have been investigated by the Government, so that one could have looked at the different shades there. When it comes to marriage, that's what the individual does. It's an individual interpretation. For us, there is a sacred pact that is included.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e460	I'm glad we have a debate with no emotional outbursts against the different attitudes that appear in the hall. But I have a question for the last speaker. She clearly mentions the basic need for identity that a mother-father relationship gives children. I note the following: heterophilic parents have gay children. Gay parents may be raising and having heterophilic children. Does the representative see it as possible that gay parents can provide child security, presence and love, which is the basis for a good upbringing?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e467	No doubt. I think so absolutely that gay and lesbian couples can be as good accomplices and adults as mom and dad. But that's not what this is about. This is about when you make a choice. That's the starting point. Professor of Child Psychiatry Berit Grøholt said that in general, it's easier for children to look like other children - so that's the growth. So I want to get back to this is the third person we're talking about, and not what's relevant in terms of adults.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e475	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e478	It was a historic day when Odelstinget decided on Wednesday 11 June to eliminate all discrimination against homophilis in the law. And this is a historic day in the Creation. When Creation now adopts the marriage law, couples of the same sex can marry. Couples of the same sex can be assessed as adoptive parents on the same line with heterophilic couples, and it opens up that lesbian couples can get assisted conception in line with heterophilic couples. And we get the beautiful term "co-mother." I will not hide that I myself have considered and assessed before taking the position that I would vote for a new marriage law. It's been a long maturing process. But I am not in doubt today that I have taken the right position. Like the large majority in the Big Right Group, I believe that the changes we are now adopting are both correct and important. This matter has been demanding, and I think it has been no matter what position you have finally taken. Marriage law produces feelings and attitudes that are deeply rooted in both tradition and religion. For very many people, marriage between two of the same sexes is contrary to what one perceives as the order of nature. I would therefore like to say that I have a great deal of understanding and respect for those who have taken a different stand on this matter for religious reasons. Increased tolerance and requirements for equal rights characterise today's society. In addition, we are living in a time that is marked by great change in many areas. Many people think it's going too fast, and feel this is the decay and dissolution of norms and traditions. In this case, we see, for example. a heated debate on the content of the matrimonial concept. And we experience that the opportunities of biotechnology challenge us ethically and break borders that nature has set for us in the past. A minority in the Rightgroup vote against the legislative proposals submitted. For them, among other things, arguments anchored in tradition, religion and ethical boundaries in relation to the biotechnological issues this matter travels, weighing heavily. The right-wing group has respect for this, and the representatives are set free in this matter. However, it is a clear majority in the Right who support the main features of the proposal for legislative changes. In the public debate, this government council referred to Spain, which three years ago introduced a common marriage law. Former Prime Minister José Zapatero said in this regard that a decent society does not humiliate its citizens, a decent society treats its citizens with respect. These are wise words, and they fit well today, because today we are eliminating some discrimination. We're giving you new possibilities. We uphold the rights of children. And we do equal treatment. Many believe that this could be in line with the Partnership Act. However, the problem is that the group concerned sees the partnership law as discriminatory. And when it's perceived this way, we should listen to others. It's the one who wears the shoe, who knows where it presses - to use a wordtag. With the new marriage law, we state that homofiles are worth as much as heterofiles, and that both gay and lesbians should be treated in the same way as heterofiles. It's about recognising that we're not going to discriminate, that we're going to treat our fellow human beings decently. For us as legislators, marriage is primarily a legal matter. In a secular multicultural society, therefore, there are good arguments that public authorities should base a system based on mandatory civil marriage. The right in Odelstinget was in favour of the proposal that the Government should address the issue with a view to presenting its own case to the Stortinget. For the Right, the issue of compulsory civil marriage will be a balance to the long traditions we have for the belief society and, in particular, the Norwegian Church to have this authority. This has proved so far to be a practical and good order, and to the right it will be very important what the Church itself believes. The Church shall not be subject to any obligations it does not wish. In our view, this is also taken care of in this case. We know that more and more children grow up in relation to either two fathers or two mothers, that's part of social development. The right-hand programme states that similar couples should be able to be evaluated by adoption, and we therefore supported the Government's proposal at this point in Odelstinget. I am particularly concerned about the child's growing-up conditions. That's something I've been working on for 25 years. I could say a lot about the parenting role, the child's education and the children who suffer from care failure - too many children unfortunately do it. I have often thought in my silent mind that not everyone should have children. Fortunately, most children are wanted and grow up in love. Good parents are caring and can provide the child with both security and love. Good parents give the child a safe home. It's far more important than what sex your parents have. The law that we adopt today means that it is caring and not sex that is crucial for whether couples are good parents. In any case, adoptive parents shall be carefully assessed and this is incredibly important, but gender should not be decisive. I am quite sure that when a gay or a lesbian couple chooses to have a child, this is after careful assessments. In line with most heterophilic couples, they will give the child the love and the good care that the child needs - and that all children deserve. When the law is passed, lesbian couples get access to assisted conception in line with heterophilic couples. Heterophilic couples receive such help in cases where they themselves do not achieve pregnancy through normal cohabitation. This may be due to demonstrable medical reasons, or what is called unexplained infertility. There is no right to have children, and being a lesbian is no disease either. Thus, one might think that it is not desirable to allow for assisted fertilization for this group. However, when the Right has come to a different conclusion, it is in the interests of the children who will in any case be covered by it. The most important thing is to ensure that the children born are in receipt of the best possible health conditions and to ensure that knowledge of their biological origin is available as far as possible. It is the children’s rights that are to be placed in the high seat, and therefore we are to ensure that this can be done under legal, registered and good arrangements and within Norwegian legislation. That is why we refused to approve assisted fertilisation in countries with anonymous sperm donor. Children shall have the right to know their biological origin. It is an important objective of family law to embrace all children, including these. With today's law, we establish that gay life is as valuable as heterophilic, and that the rights and obligations of a legally binding life are promised from the point of view of sex that has been felt to discriminate against a whole group of people in our country for many, many years. The rules we put in place, they open up opportunities, they take no rights or opportunities from anyone. Those who feel that marriage is between men and women can still put it into the concept and demand respect for their position. A lot is won by the marriage law, but there is still a lot - unfortunately. It shows all the letters, e-mails and telephones that have come in connection with this matter. I've never actually seen my husband! It is prejudice, it is condemnation, and it is discrimination. In any case, it has told me that awareness-raising work is still the maximum required. Here we all have a very important job to do in this hall, no matter what the point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e510	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e513	There is currently a right for health professionals to reserve themselves against abortion. The right of reservation relates to the intervention itself. Among other things, the Right is currently in favour of a proposal to introduce a right of reservation with regard to the definitions of the new marriage law, and with regard to new rules on parenthood, adoption and artificial conception. For example, there is no right of reservation at present. assisted fertilisation. Does the Right believe that health professionals should be able to reserve themselves against carrying out assisted fertilization on gay couples, but that you should still help heterophilic couples? If so, is that not discrimination?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e520	I want to take a completely different starting point here than the representative Engstad: we base tolerance and respect. We do not want to impose on the Church anything that the Church does not want, and we do not want in this case for any delicate matter to oblige individuals to do anything in their job they find for their own personal reasons not to do. That's our starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e525	The representative Holmberg and I are a hundred percent agreed at one point: decent parties do not question this kind of party issues. Therefore, it is useful that we can also have a public conversation between the parties. I've said that I'm going to vote against all these proposals, but it's not for religious reasons -- not at all. Therefore, I would ask you to clarify that it is not such to understand that the representative believes that if you are against one or more of these legislative amendments, it is per. definition of religious reasons. I have to remember that the society that is considered the most secular in Europe, France, has expressly refused to go this way, and that is probably not for religious reasons. But I have a specific question: the lawmakers say that Norway is likely to have to cancel the European Adoption Convention for this reason. It is not explicitly said that the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child should be terminated, but in my opinion you must do the same. How does the representative Holmberg assess this?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e534	There will be a somewhat complicated question here and now to answer. But it's going to be well in this case as in a lot of other cases, it's not sure if we have to change any international laws or not. It shall be up to a future assessment in those bodies which in this way will take their position.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e539	I agree with the representative Holmberg that this is a matter that has created a lot of commitment, in fact a quite enormous commitment, and many participate. But I also record that the representative Holmberg says that she has never experienced so much prejudice, condemnation and discrimination. I agree that there has probably been a rather tough debate. But is it the case that the representative Holmberg believes that those who disagree with the majority in the Right and the representative Holmberg have only prejudices and engages in condemnation and discrimination? I feel that there have been many good input from both sides in the debate. I hope it's not that because you disagree with the majority in the right, you get those signs.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e544	I believe that the representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, would follow a little better at the end of my post, because I then referred to all the e-mails, telephones and letters that I have received from others, outside Stortinget, in this case. I am deeply sorry for all the discriminatory and condemnations I have received. I think it's sad that we in our society should have such condemnatory attitudes and so little respect and tolerance for each other. It doesn't apply to this hall. I have great respect for any point of view, whether taken on a religious basis or on other personal emotional basis. That's what's so important in our society, that we should be able to show each other respect and tolerance, regardless of where we stand.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e549	The lot to the right would have liked to be presented as a responsible lot. I think it's a characteristic that we relate in many ways to the Right, not least in economic issues, where the party is often very responsible. So I'm going to ask, what about this question, in such an important area, when you're going to introduce a whole new legal state in the field of life? All of a sudden, you're in a hurry. It's mentioned that it took 16 or 20 years last time you had a life reform. Now you're doing it during this magnification period, without going the way of a wide-ranging commission and creating a NOU, which then turns out to be a big message. Neither have you taken the time to do that. You're going straight to the legal proposition. These are many who have problems seeing are in the pact with a responsible procedure and taking democracy seriously. Is the Right and the Representative Holmberg comfortable today with this way of doing it, in the case of such a comprehensive law?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e554	Yes, at no time in the proceedings has the right-wing party expressed any opinion other than that we are comfortable with the proceedings. I want to ask the representative, who is the answer to the truth? For us, there are three important things that apply: one is that we live in a time when society changes. The second is that we take very much into account the rights of children. The third is discrimination. On that basis, I feel very comfortable with the position the right has taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e560	I agree with Kari Lise Holmberg that gay and heterophilic people are just as much a world, and that we are all responsible for a factual and good debate. The representative Holmberg mentioned that she has been very busy with the child's growing-up conditions. But then I thought it was very strange that having different role models, having both a mother's and a father's figure, is absent from the argument. A talk about discrimination, but is biology discriminatory? In a lot of areas we're busy with it, we're going to have more men into the kindergarten, we're going to have more men into the school. It's not because these kids don't have human characters at leisure, but because women and men are different and play different roles, and because we see that it's important for the kids. We have a debate about the father's quota, we want father to spend more time with children when they're young. This doesn't apply to gays and lesbians, they can be as good parents as anyone else, but the importance of enabling many to be deprived of the opportunity to have a father, how can Kari Lise Holmberg defend it with his commitment?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e565	I would like to have much, much more time than just to answer a reply. Children need role models, children need male role models, and children need female role models. I'm not a second in doubt that all children get both female and male role models regardless of whether you have a heterophilic parent or two mothers or two fathers. I am absolutely sure that the parents are so reasonable in any case that they make sure that the children have aunts or uncles, grandparents, friends who set up, and who make these children get male and female role models. The most important thing for children is that they live up in love, in security, in a family framework that sets limits, where one gives a good assignment. It's the most fundamental thing for the children. Then I also want to say one thing: no one is as sensible as little children. It doesn't matter if little kids grow up in a gay marriage or a lesbian marriage. With reasonable conversations and good assignment, I absolutely do not believe that this is any problem at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e574	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e577	It is not difficult to imagine that I am here in the Creation as a man. I also do that with my wife -- we also have two children. But the last time we moved -- it's possible that it's been so long since the People's Register has organized it -- there was no change for this in the People's Register. I couldn't find any space to tick out for us. Not that it's a big deal, nor do we have the power to enter the filth writer or the priest to get any kind of paper legally in the way we've lived for 20 years. We have a pretty good overview of this community. What's nice is that the Norwegian Council of Languages says that both before the law and the Church came into the picture, it was certain that if a man and a lady lived together, they were husband and wife. It says Norwegian Language Council very clearly and clearly. No one else can interfere with it. One doesn't have to call himself a partner, one is a man and a wife. So that's the way we could do it if people else could just sort it out in economics and secure it financially, skip the whole marriage law. But then I register that there are people who want to get married and who want the marriage law. I don't understand if they want to choose that. But what's going to be really weird for me is that then someone will suddenly be denied. Someone is going to say no, you're not getting married, even if you want to. Where do these ideas come from? I have tried to get involved in how it is possible at all to find out that no, someone should not be allowed if they want - in Norway in 2008! We're gathered in an anachronism. The creation is quite definite, but today it is likely to be able to adopt something new. It is not bad for an anachronism to establish something new and historic. This is a lot more policy than it is. And it's a policy that's about wanting to eliminate discrimination, and it's about wanting to raise human dignity.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e590	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e593	I hope it was a never so small delay from the representative when he expressed himself as if it was only in the Creation that he appeared as a man. I'm assuming he does it in other contexts as well. I hope so. It is easy to get rid of in such debates as this, and the representative declared that anyone who has a desire to marry must be allowed to do so. But that's not what's in the legislative amendment. However, this will be an age limit, e.g. However, marriage conditions shall be tested in accordance with highly intricate regulations. For example, if there is too close a relationship between two persons, they are not allowed to marry. The background for that historical fact is quite clear that marriage has of course been defined as a male-female relationship, and it poses genetic risk if you allow it. For me, it's unclear what the reason is if it's about living together between people of the same sex, but maybe the representative can help me find a good reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e602	As an agronomist and with many years before spiritual work, I know all about this genetic thing that the representative Wohnning draws up. I don't understand why he's doing it in a debate like this. No salary must start right after the representatives talk, because I said I was also a man in a different context than here in the Creation. But, as I said, this is about politics. This is about the will to let people do what they want. Then, of course, there are some limitations that lie in the juxtaposition, but the important thing here today is that human dignity is raised and discrimination ends.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e609	One of the reasons used to open up assisted fertilization in Norway is that many lesbians travel abroad and get assisted fertilization there, so that there are many who benefit from it unemployed, and then it should be equally legal in Norway. There are several people who use this argument. There are also men who become parents using surrogate mother. They're going out of Norway, preferably to the United States, to benefit from surrogate mothers there. Some of them will experience it as discriminatory that they are not allowed to use surrogacy in Norway. Would you like to see the next item on the discussion? Some take a lot of distance from it and say that no, it's moving ethical boundaries so far that we don't want to go in for it. But it'll be used a lot if you experience things as discriminatory. Some homosexuals may have a friend who wants to set up for free so that they can become parents. What's going to be the next front? Because it's obvious that what's not discriminatory in one moment, in the next moment, it is. And then what is SV's answer?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e616	No, the limit goes by surrogates. How this law is to be developed in the future is not the topic of today's debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e621	The new law adopted in Odelstinget, which we are dealing with today, is adopted against the view of so saying all the religious and life-view societies. Now I don't know how much that worries SV. SV is a socialist party, but a socialist party that raises the banner of democracy, of human dignity - also mentioned by the representative Jacobsen - and of human rights. This is also about freedom of belief, and a lot of churches, not least the Norwegian Church, are now in a quandary, because many will find it difficult to make marriages in this context. Then I've seen in the media after the debate in Odelstinget that the Socialist Left Party has said that they will go in to force the Norwegian Church to implement these marriages. What is Bjørn Jacobsen's answer to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e630	It is easy so that no one should, of course, be forced to dedicate anyone if they don't want to. Of course, it would be a reservation right. But what is important and interesting is that this debate must take place within the Church. I see that my comrades, my Christian-socialist friends in More and Romesdal, have a lively debate on this. I won't stand there and decide what to mean, but that debate is there, and it's important that he is out there in the different church sounds and forms the basis for how the individual priests will do it. But it's clear that the liturgy we have to get in place as fast as it is, because the Church can't stand all the way on the sideline when there's a lot of people going to church. Let them come to the church, let them come to the dignity of man, and don't be stamped and standing outside. We have a big problem in More and Romesdal. Our young people, some of them, actually, choose to take their lives, precisely because they can't live with their legend -- precisely because of the condemnation, precisely because of the foreshadowment. Today we get this a little bit in place again, by raising human dignity.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e640	Much has been said about discrimination and lack of equality. But I want to ask Jacobsen's representative whether it's not just discrimination and lack of equality children will experience that will have to grow up without knowing their origins before they turn 18. Is it not precisely discrimination and a lack of equality with other children?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e645	If you take a walk around Norway in the different food departments, you'll soon find out that it's not like kids come to the world in the idyllic way with mom and dad, and everything's fine, and the big luck all stands by. It's not like that. People have always been born in different ways and in different types of relationships. The important thing here is that there are some people who are present and care about the kids who are actually born, and who will show care and ability to care for these kids.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e650	I've lived so far in the belief that in the way of being born, there's one of the few areas where there's actually full equality. But I understand that the representative has a different experience. What is striking in this debate is that there are striking height differences between the rhetoric and the positions. The rhetoric is superfluous in principle, but the points of view of the juxe -- and that's actually what we're discussing here, the creation has no other task -- are strikingly pragmatic, not to say opportunistic. SV has programmed that the party will introduce mandatory civil marriage. But in this case, you don't just distance yourself from the game program. An investigation into a compulsory civil marriage scheme is even being voted on. Then there can be no principles. Then it's purely opportunism. I should like to hear a reason why this opportunistic attitude has been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e657	I understand that the representative has not got what is going on around the various food departments in Norway - but let it go. The representative is kind of trying to make this a question about jus -- jus, jus, jus, jus, when we know the whole history of homorrheic movements, when we know how we've become a more and more liberal and open society, and we say, we're not going to drive and crush people and keep them down by law and law and everything. That's what's happening today. It is the policy that goes far beyond the law, although the product here in the house is a marriage law -- a policy and the influence of him that makes several thousand around the country now can celebrate and cheer. It tries to remove the representative's salary from those with legal tip formulations. He should also look at the possibilities for human dignity and anti-discrimination that lie here.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e664	The cord shift is over. The President just wants to clarify what the Creation decided, that everyone has 10 minutes of speaking time in his first post, and 3 minutes in his second post, if any. It's not like you can keep a three-minute post by main speakers. There are only lines of posts from the principal figures.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e669	In Odelstingen we experienced a debate where more people didn't want to hear what the Christian People's Party said, and gave us opinions we didn't have. Therefore, I would like to keep this article, in the hope that the Creation will better right after. The Christian People's Party wants to keep today's marriage law. So we're going to vote against all the government proposals that Odelstinget has made, and I think there are many, far beyond our voters, who are some with us. This debate on new marriage law calls for some to stigmatise or suspect their opponents. It may seem that we, who are opposed to the proposal for a new marriage law, want to regulate homosexuals away from society and tacitly accept discrimination. This I think is both sad and innocuous. It's sad because it creates an image that it's unseemly whether it's okay to discriminate against homosexuals, which of course isn't. It is inconceivable because the Christian People's Party has several times taken a great deal of distance from all discrimination against homosexuals. Many homosexuals experience discrimination at work, at school and by buying housing. For this reason, the Bondevik II Government ensured that it was able to legislate against discrimination against homosexuals in the labour market and in the housing market and to set up a private office to ensure that discrimination was followed. The Christian People's Party will ensure a good framework for committed living for all, regardless of whether they are heterophiles or homosexuals. This is about the dishes of adults to good conditions around their lives, and the right to be met with respect for their choices in life. That's what we think about today's legislation. We want to keep the marriage law for marriage between man and woman and the partnership law for living between two of the same sex. So it applies to children's rights. The Christian People's Party is busy ensuring that all children have good contact with both parents, regardless of whether they are biological or not. When a child is born into an established partnership, the Christian People's Party believes that we must ensure the child's right to good contact with both parents. That is why we supported the Government's proposal to legislate on the right to parental leave and paid leave for adoptive parents in registered partnerships. I feel the need to clarify which grip we have taken or have supported in order to improve the living conditions of those homofiles. I don't doubt that a gay couple living in partnership can offer good frameworks around a child's growth. There are many good caregivers in our society who cannot be considered adoptive parents, etc. heterofiled sambas. In the event of adoption, society must try to create the best possible conditions of growth for the child. The Christian People's Party believes that children who are adopted should have the right to a mother and a father living in a stable relationship. Children's risk of living a broken life is more than three times greater in a lesbian partnership--in addition to children missing a father! Saying no to equalizing heterophiles and gay couples with regard to adoption is not about discrimination, but about putting children's needs in the centre. There is no human right to have children, but it is the right of children to have parents. The Christian People's Party believes that biological father should only be replaced by another caregiver when this is necessary for the best of the child, and not systematically and systematically, as the Government advocates by opening up assisted conception for lesbians. Some children already have gay or lesbian foster parents, for example. as a result of the fact that a relative and his or her partners have taken over the parental responsibility for the child in the event of the death of their parents. These children have a special connection with the couple, and the couple should, in the view of the Christian People's Party, be considered adoptive parents if this proves to be in the best interests of the child. This bill represents a fundamental change in one of society's most important institutions, marriage, which is also an important framework for child growth. Of course, the legislative proposal should have been thoroughly distributed before it was brought forward. The Christian People's Party therefore proposed to send the matter back to the Government so that it would be better distributed. This proposal was defeated in Odelstinget and therefore cannot be re-enforced for the Lagninget. There is no human right to marry. Sweden has seen closer to this in the edition «Marriage for couples with the same sex - Vigilance issues [[SOU 2007:17]] Comparing the proposal for a new marriage law with the law of partnership becomes meaningless. The proposal for a new marriage law is primarily a reform in which a set of adult needs for children and where a pusher child's rights aside. The growing-up conditions of children are characterized by the fact that the child has both a mother and a father as role models in his or her daily growing-up environment. The bill says: ‘Children should have the right to know their biological origin. [[...]] This may have psychological and medical significance for the child. ‘... The member of the Mannspanelet Heikki Holmås, of SV, has stated that it is unnecessary to justify why father is important. Why will the government grant lesbian rights to artificial fertilization and with it take from a child the ability to grow up with a father? The Christian People's Party believes that the child's Convention feast must be protected for both parents. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child Article 7.1 stated that ‘as far as practicable, the child shall have the right to know his or her parents and to receive care from them’. Article 18.1 provides that ‘nationals accepting the Convention on the Rights of the Child shall follow the principle that both parents have joint responsibility for the child’s mission and development’. According to the proposal on page 11, Article 7 ‘the right to know their biological parents’ applies. A right to assisted reproduction for lesbians will result in more children growing up without their biological parents. Children with a known donor will have the opportunity to know who the biological danger is when the child reaches the age of 18. But children who have unknown donors will be drawn from the right to never know their original. The government also legitimises the use of the unknown donor by allowing the lesbian partner to become a co-mother, even if the unknown donor becomes useful at approved clinics abroad. Such a development my Christian People's Party is clearly not for the benefit of children. The supporters of assisted fertilization for lesbian claims that we have to open up to this in Norway, because otherwise lesbians will deal with unknown donors abroad or buy semen on the Internet. We can't let Norwegian legislation open up to take away children's right to grow up with a father because someone is raising children by travelling abroad or by making contact via the Internet. The government's legislative proposals leave a number of unanswered questions when it comes to the father's role in a child's growth. The clear political signal has been that fathers should and should stand up for their young, regardless of the breakup of life and new families. The signal in the government's bill is the opposite. If two grown-up people take care of them, father is superfluous. I'm not proud of everything the Christian People's Party has said about gays up through the years - and many have probably been hurt. I'm sorry about that. At the same time, one must have respect for the fact that the Christian People's Party, in line with other parties and society otherwise, has changed its view of both homosexuals and their right to live in a committed life. That is why, in today's debate, I think we need to focus on the political changes proposed in marriage law, in the adoption law, in the biotechnology law and in children's law. The changes are extensive and tend to be clarified much more thoroughly than in the government's legislative proposals. I mean, it's alarming when such a big opposition in the Storting and the people are asking for a better settlement, that we get no. It always makes sense to get involved in a matter when you want to make changes that have such a big impact. The government has so far disagreed with - and can also have the plurality in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e719	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e722	The representative of Molvær Grimstad spent a lot of time in his article on children's dishes. In the setting, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party state in a note that: ‘children’s rights shall be fully respected, whatever their family status.’ But cork in the decision in Odelstinget or in the debate here has the Christian People's Party taken note of or took the consequence of its own remark. I believe that the Christian People's Party is aware that lesbian women have children today, and that these kids don't have the same dishes as other kids. So I wonder if the Christian People's Party can answer why they want to pass on a law that gives children who live with a lesbian mother and a co-mother, weakened dishes in relation to other children.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e734	It's true that we're concerned that all children should secure legal rights, as well as how they grow up to decorate their lives. That is why in the Christian People's Party we have said that we need to look at existing legislation through, for example. the partnership law, whether there are improvements that need to be made to ensure the rights of the child. It is a few proposals that have been supported and supported by the Christian People's Party, but we said that we should rather look at today's legislation. And we know that when it's about step-child adoption, in some cases it takes a very long time. It is possible to look at the process associated with it. But from there to facilitate that there will be many, many more who will be born without the possibility to know their biological origin, we think we're crazy. We thought it was right to keep today's law with regard to marriage law and partnership law. Then you can look at what can be done within today's legislation to ensure that the children who are already born are a good legal framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e741	I think the representative made a good point about legitimizing what has been the entry of the Christian People's Party into these questions earlier. I have great respect for that. But I think she's drawing it too far when she says that this law is a law that takes into account the homofile's need for children more than for children's rights. One starting point is that society has changed, that as a big and legislative assembly, we have to start from the world we actually live in. And we have to assume that there are many who live in family relationships that do not satisfy the Christian People's Party's normality requirements. How has the Christian People's Party intended to safeguard the rights of these children? - Is the red light here a kind of sign that I'm finished, President, or can I ask the last question?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e752	Now we're running out of time, but there'll be opportunities later.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e756	I want to thank Borten Moe for the rose. Yes, society has changed. And there are children growing up in different family constellations. We are very concerned that all children should be assured good caregivers. We know that there are many single parents who make a huge effort for their children, that there are children who experience a break in their lives, and that there are many challenges for children who grow up. And everyone wants the best for their children. But at the same time that society has changed, there's something that hasn't changed, and that's biology. It actually takes one woman and one more man to have a child. Odelsting and Laving can decide what they want, but biology can never be decided to change. So the question is, is there any reason that biology is like this? Yeah, I actually think that's a reason. But to those who have used creative tools to still have children, I would say that I am busy with all the children who are born to meet with respect and care.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e770	The Christian People's Party has always opposed any legislative change that would guarantee rights and equality for homosexuals. In 1954, when decriminalization was first proposed, the Christian People's Party considered homosexuality a threat. In 1972 the Christian People’s Party wanted to continue to criminalize, and when the Partnership Act came, the Christian People’s Party felt that it would weaken the position of marriage and that it was an accident. In 1996, Kjell Magne Bondevik promoted a document No. Eight proposals to repeal the Partnership Act. And now suddenly the Christian People's Party embraces the same law. What is it that makes us believe in the Christian People's Party this time, when the party -- in a way -- has been wrong all the other times?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e779	This tirad I've been waiting for. It was an hour and a half before he got here. But now that I'm going back in history, I don't think there's one political party here that hasn't made a decision in noblesting, laying or biging that they're not proud of today. I think we've all made decisions that we can look back at and say it was a shame that we did it. And the Labour Party has changed its position. After all, it was read out what the Workers' Party said about the law of partnership when she was signed, why not open it for gay adoption, and why should one retain the marriage law between man and woman. So here all the parties have turned to the point of view. That's why it's so strange that the Labour Party comes with this tirad, because the Labour Party itself has changed its position and its argument - from, for example, the Labour Party. The law of partnership was adopted and proposed for a new marriage law today. So this primordiality falls on rock bottom.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e788	I agree with the representative that the Creation has more important things to do than discuss party history. The regulation has one single task: to ensure that the legislation is correct. That's why we have a layer. But I have a small question for the representative, because she was injured to say that it is not possible to decide to correct the laws of nature. Well, that's what men do. But it will have limited effect, I think. It made sense to me - to take an example: when the Great Council of the 1950s debated the hell war, which was a fierce battle at that time, the Protocol Committee's rapporteur, Ole Bergesen of the Right in Stavanger, wrote the immortal sentence: it must be assumed that the question of man's eternal destiny lies outside the area where parliamentary majority decisions have significant influence. Would the representative agree with such a limitation of the scope of parliamentary decisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e799	I'm 100 pst. agree with Inge Wage. At the same time, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to say that Inge Wohnning has some amazing reflections about this. I would very much like a plurality in the Creation, including his own party, to listen to it when one is going to make a decision in this matter. The representative is in good and insightful knowledge, which I hope to reach out to everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e806	Ola Borten Moe is then given the opportunity to ask his question. - The representative doesn't want the word anyway, as he suggested. Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e811	I ask for understanding that I am not completely familiar with the way the list of speakers is set up. So before I start, I'll also say that it's a shame that we don't get the opportunity to take a line on the main post from Inge Wage. I think there are many of us sitting here today, who could have had good use and good desire to get into the attack position in relation to his posts, in the same way that he does it to ours. So I want to start by saying that society is constantly evolving. There's nothing static, nor the values. It is possible to philosophize a lot around this by looking at how different cultures and different societies have organized themselves at different times, with different attitudes and practices. The old Greeks that I read about at the university, which we consider to be the founders of our modern civilization, had one way of organizing their lives. Over time, the Church has promoted different approaches, and has even introduced a whole new institution, namely the maritime environment. The only thing that is possible to establish with certainty is that it has gone forward. Over the last few generations, the consideration of individual weights has become more and more weighty, respect for diversity has increased, and the self-value of diversity has gained impetus - and this within the framework of a liberal society based on mutual respect and personal responsibility. There are many such examples of development right up until today, and today we are writing another chapter in this story. Evolution has come because there is a need for it. The majority, the state, the majority have always tended to suppress or set aside those that are different. Without drawing this too far from our own history, it's not that long since we've had the right to vote for everyone. We have made major changes in our policies towards our minorities, such as jointers, gypsies and taters. We've reformed the psychiatry after the search light came up with intolerable conditions there. The same has happened in the care of people with mental retardation. I now hope that we can have a similar development in the situation of our asylum recipients. Because I think in 20 years' time we're going to look back and say, "If that's how we were in 2008, it was possible in Norway in 2008 -- the same way you clean up today after the orphanage institutions in the 1950s and 1960s. This development is unique in the sense that the individual is becoming increasingly important in society, and that society increasingly sees it as important both to accept and to facilitate individual peculiarities, freedom and the development of life. Another good measure on this is whether we ask ourselves: when are we the most proud of society, when are we the most proud of the state, and when is the most warmed up to be a Northman? I would argue that it is precisely in the moments that we are in practice taking care of individuals, protecting our individual rights through law, and preferably leading the international community. We do that today. We're not first, but we're early. Many claim that society will change significantly through the changes in laws that are currently on the table. It's right in the sense that it changes the daily lives of a small minority, and that society once again sends a strong signal that we're all equal. But I'm not one of those people who think this is going to rock the marriage as an institution in Norway, rather the opposite. Marriage is a pact between two people based on mutual love and respect, and I believe that today's change in law further strengthens the marriage position in Norwegian society. I can't understand why marriage should weaken or become less valuable because more people have an opportunity to enter into it. With regard to the religious aspects, it is entirely up to the Norwegian Church and other religious communities how they will deal with this. We, as representatives of civil society, must have full respect for that. However, I hope and believe that the Church will look carefully at this in the future. The central party is occupied by the position of the Church in the Norwegian community. We want an open and inclusive people's church. We therefore have no desire to deprive the Church of its right to marriage, which several parties have signalled here today. Still, about half of us are married in the Church, and we see no need to change that. Moreover, it is not a natural discussion in this context. To the extent that one should debate it, it should have been debated on the matter of the relationship between state and church. In terms of assisted conception and adoption, the best starting point for children is the obvious one, and the obvious starting point for most. For my own part, there are then at least two questions that need to be answered. First of all, is there any reason to believe that children may have been hurting or getting worse chances of growing up in a family of two like-minded parents? In other words, would a gay or lesbian couple have less care than a heterophilic couple? In my opinion, there is nothing to suggest. This is not a right to have children, but a right to be assessed on the same line with others. There is a thorough process underpinning any adoption. Nothing happens at random, which is probably not quite unusual within the normal biological way of doing this. I have no reason to believe that the ability to love, care and education is worse among this group than among everyone else. To the extent that this is a problem, it is because one encounters prejudice and condemnation from others. It's in my opinion impossible to use it as an argument against introducing the possibility of adoption and conception, that's rather an argument for. Our decision here today will help to legitimise this, it will help to change attitudes and provide a good basis for a future where these kinds of attitudes do not exist and have room for manoeuvre. It is our duty to work for such a development. Secondly, is there a need for this change? Yeah, that's definitely it. Many present the family as their mother, father, and child. That's the normal and the natural. I think the Storting should be careful to highlight one situation, one form of life, as the only thing we accept, and the only thing that is normal. There are many who live in family relationships other than those that society has defined as natural. This is The Storting has to take over. There is a need for a permanent legal framework for family relationships other than those that we have traditionally recognised. On the other hand, in my opinion, it is harmful for many children and many families that we do not take into account that reality does not exist, to say it that way. It is our duty to ensure that all children and all families have a transparent and predictable legal framework around their lives and their family situation. Of course, it's not the same thing as full release. We wish, among other things: That children should have the right to know their biological origin, and we are going to vote for it today. This debate, this law and this decision could never have come 20 years ago. The fact alone proves that society is evolving and is constantly changing. My own views on this are a reflection of it. There are a few things I've spent so long forming my own positions. It means that I have great respect for those who have come to a different conclusion, but it also means that it is not in any other matter I am so sure that the position I have now taken is correct. Today, Laging and Norwegian society are taking a long step forward towards equivalency and respect for individuals, and we are taking seriously the actual situation of many individuals and families living in. I'm proud of that, and I'm glad to be a part of it today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e841	It's going to be line change. The President shall be allowed to state that what Ola Borten Moe originally wanted was what was in the President's proposal, i.e. replying - and that has been voted down by the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e846	I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e851	Multiple governments come in two versions: the real and the synthetic. The one that we now have belongs to the last category. It came, among other things: as expressed by the fact that it did something that coalition governments almost never do. It threw the cards before it joined, namely by solving a difficult problem by releasing one of the three government parties from the government's policy. It's very rare it happens. My question is why the Center Party was allowed to run over, instead of choosing the natural solution in a situation where one finds that there is disagreement, namely that then we take at least time to do normal law-making in such a difficult area. The center party then had the key to ensuring a normal, decent law process in this area. So my question is, why didn't you use the key, but threw it instead?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e858	First assumption: this is a question that there are different opinions about in the Center Party. With regard to the question of freedom of value - which is really what the Declaration of Government says - to the representatives of the Central Party, it should not be an entirely unknown phenomenon for the Right as a party, given the right's behaviour in Norwegian parliamentary history. There are a few other parties that have been so exempted, and that have thought so much differently about central value issues. I think it is a pity that we are trying to turn this debate into a debate on whether or not the matter has been thoroughly investigated. My position is that there is a thorough enough legal work behind the decision of the Storting. We who sit as representatives, both in Odelstinget and in Lagtinget, know well what we adopt, and I find it difficult to see that there are consequences of this that we are not able to understand today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e868	The representative Ola Borten Moe is talking about social development, that society is constantly evolving. Ola Borten Moe and the undersigned belong to a younger generation of politicians who enjoy the fact that politicians have walked in front of us and arranged for Dad to be more at home, and that Dad can also be at home with valid absences if the child is ill. We also enjoy the fact that someone has gone ahead of us in relation to quota schemes in different human-dominated professions. The representative, Ola Borten Moe, is talking about that today we're writing a new chapter. Why should the Creation write a new chapter that goes in the opposite direction of the one to which the politicians who have gone before us have submitted - in relation to the fact that children need a mother and a father, and that children need more contact with both mother and father?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e875	What children need are good caregivers who can frame around a stable and good family life. Secondly, it is for the Creation to adopt this because it is right and because it takes care of the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e880	I understand that the representative Mr. Borten Moe's frustration at not being allowed to take a line on Inge Wohnning's posts, but he himself was part of the majority who just voted against taking a line on the payroll posts. In this case, I have some sympathy for the Center Party. I think they've come into a very difficult situation. In the election campaign before the last election, the party stated that they would not go for a gender-neutral marriage law. When Borten Moe says that the history of society has changed, the history of the Center Party has obviously changed quite quickly. And my question is, what will the Center Party now say to its voters about the reverse operation they've performed in this period? I also want to ask another question. The representative Away Moe mentioned this by loving, having the ability to love. He didn't think that gay and lesbian--if I understood him correctly--had some poorer ability to love than others. Does Borten Moe mean that we who are against this law mean it? Do we have a different view of this? Have any of us said that gay and lesbian should be less able to do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e889	To begin with, the Center Party did not go to the elections against a common marriage law. What's right to say is that there are individual representatives who have gone to elections against a common marriage law, and there are individual representatives who have changed their minds. I think we should respect that in the name of propriety. For the purpose of any political process is to acquire knowledge, to take on development and to make an opinion on an independent basis. So I'm not in any doubt that the Christian People's Party will do what they can to announce the views of the Central Party in this matter beyond the country as it approaches election struggle. However, I am not sure that the Christian People's Party in such a game will get the ignition and the feedback in the form of increased excitement that they might hope for. As far as the last point is concerned, I believe that what children need is good caregivers. The Christian People's Party argues that you need a mother and a father. Maybe there's a difference in the conclusion we've come to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e898	The representative Ola Borten Moe was concerned that people live in different forms of life. I guess everyone's familiar with that. But he also said that the legislative proposal on which it is based is a legislative proposal and a law that respects the rights of individuals. I also think that the representative Ola Borten Moe was little within the rights of the child - children who do not have the opportunity for these elections. How can the Senterpartiet and Ola Borten Moe guarantee that the wishes and rights of children are respected with the draft law under consideration today?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e905	It's possible I expressed myself clumsy about the expression individual rights, the individual's rights. I also consider children to be individuals. I believe that one of the most important things about this law is that you cleanly and properly regulate the rights of the children who live in family relationships that are not what Hoksrud and others define as normal, and who you do not want to regulate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e910	Mr. Moe said he was sorry that this debate was so much about the process and the preparation of the law. There I fundamentally disagree, because that's actually the whole point of having a layer. According to the Basic Law, it is not the facility to reprise debates in Odelstinget. We can do very well without that. It is for one reason, namely, to ensure quality in legislation and the legal texts. I had almost said that it is our damn duty to do just that. Then I have to ask the question one more time, because I think it's almost alarming that three parties who want to govern the country together are not even able to agree that one should have a proper, normal law investigation process in an area where these three parties disagree initially, but instead throw the cards and say, well, we disagree, and we're going to continue to disagree, because we've started the conclusion without any premise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e917	It is well known within the policy that, when the conclusion is sometimes disagreeable, it is possible to attack the process. I find that many have done so, both in Odelstinget and so far in Lagtinget. I think this is about things other than process. I believe that I responded to the representative's wage challenge when I said that this matter was thoroughly sufficiently investigated, that we know what we are taking a stand on, and that we know what the consequences of this law decision are. Thus, the function of Creation, the purpose of Creation and our duty should also be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e924	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e927	Initially, I was not going to take the floor at Lagtinget, but to refer to the debate that has been in Odelstinget. When I still take the floor, it's not because I think I can convince someone when it comes to voting, but because I want to express the position of the Left also in the House of Lamentations. I agree very much with the post that the representative Mr. Borten Moe had. He said 20 years ago this had not happened. He pointed out that society is changing, which we all agree with. Many believe that things are going in the wrong direction, some believe that in many areas they are also going in the right direction. And just when it comes to the issues we are debating today, I think society has gone in the right direction. There have been many tragic fates in the face of a lack of respect and acceptance in society for people who have been ‘other’. I also think that the whole thing is characterized by respect for the attitudes of others, the orientation of others, but I also think that the debate is marked by respect for each other's point of view - and that's great. The left is happy that we now have a common marriage law that equates heterophilic and homosexual. For a liberal party, it's a matter of course that the state treats people independently of sexual orientation. It would be strange if the left did not have such a position. The left also follows the Government's proposals on many points, but we would have liked a model with mandatory civil marriage. Such a model would in principle make a distinction between the legal and the religious part of marriage, and we are disappointed that one will not have such an investigation - and we would have been more happy if we could have made a decision on it. So we're disappointed that the government won't go in to separate the legal and the ceremonial at the time of marriage. The left wants a common legal marriage that replaces today's marriage and existing partnership law. Such compulsory civilization will mean that the state lays the legal framework, while the church or other religious communities do the blessing or conduct their own marriage ceremonies for those who want it. I would also like to point out that there were several of the hearing bodies that favoured such a solution. The left's position is that the next step must be to have a system of civil marriage, where we separate it legally from the ceremonial. The left will not take away from the church the freedom it has today to not marry homosexuals. It should be up to the individual religious and life views to conduct their own marriage ceremonies. The left respects the fact that marriage for many is a relationship between man and woman established by God, but as a political party we relate to marriage as not only a religious but also a legal institution. The left has long programmed common marriage legislation for homosexuals and heterophiles, and that homofiles should be considered as adoptive parents in line with heterofiles. No one has the right to adopt, but for the Left, it is natural that homofiles should be considered as adoptive parents in line with heterofiles. With a common marriage law, lesbians and gays will also have the same adoption rights as others. It is the best of the children who should always be taken into account in assessing the ability of adoptive parents to give children a good upbringing; it should not be civil status or sexual orientation. From a principle assessment, the left will equate lesbian couples with heterophiles in the case of assisted fertilisation. There is no reason to doubt that lesbian couples can provide the same warm care as heterophiles. On that basis, we want to put an end to the discrimination that exists in today's legislation. So finally, for the left, it's a fundamental right to know its origin. Therefore, we believe it is absolutely essential that the child from a given time should have the opportunity to obtain information about his biological origin. There are several speakers who have indicated that there has been a great deal of commitment to this matter. There have been many e-mails and enquiries in other ways. Many people have had factual content, but I also have to say that there are many requests that still express prejudices, and you can almost believe that you belong at a different time because of inaccuracies that arise. Equivalence and respect for the individual are central to the Left as to many other parties. We're going to have respect for those who are different, and we also have to have a law that takes it into consideration in a modern society.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e950	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e954	If I understood correctly, the representative of Kongshaug said that a special feature of liberal parties is that they march in pace. I don't think it's been the most prominent feature of Left's history. A few years ago, it was said that if there were two left-hand persons present in a room, there were at least three different opinions. In today's Evening Post, the leader of the party says that he is even considering replacing representatives of the Lamentations who must have a different opinion from the majority of the party group. It seems alarming to me if just a liberal party practices its liberality in such a way that one can imagine both overstepping the consciences of individual representatives and even resorting to such a trick as morbidizing them, so that they are not allowed to express themselves. I would like a comment on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e961	Now I have not read what was in the Evening Post to which Inge Wohnung refers. It's like in the Creation we have a dividend system to the ordinary. The meeting today is probably the exception to the way we usually run things in Creation, where we have a dividend system. Of course, with regard to the Left's position on exchange, it is the right of any representative to meet in the Laging. We meet with the two representatives we have the right to meet with today. It is the right of any representative to vote on the basis of his or her convictions - including in this matter. I am reasonably sure that the party leader has also communicated it to the newspaper, because that is the fundamental principle of the Left's position. It's clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e968	I understand that the Left wants a different model than the Government has proposed. As the representative of Kongshaug was in the room, a common civil marriage for everyone, and perhaps a ecclesiastical benediction for those who want it. This probably left the government's hope was that the government had settled, so that one of them would have presented it in the bill with which the government came, but the government has barely mentioned it in a word. The Left's proposal was voted down in Odelstinget. Should not the Left have been with us to press that matters were properly settled, and that this point too would have been settled before one took a position on the matter? If the Left, the Right and those in the Center that would not be in favour of the promise, had said that we should have a better explanation of this, the matter might not have been settled today. One had at least got a better deal. Would not the Left have preferred to use the meat weight they have to try to affect in that direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e975	As I said in my post, I'm disappointed that the government wouldn't agree with the proposal that went into civil marriage, to confirm the legal rights. When it comes to postponing the entire law, the Left believes that the time is ripe to go into this law right now. As I also said in the post, we have had it programmed over several periods. When it comes, it would seem strange if we went for a postponement. Then we can always discuss whether things are well established or not, but for our part, we think the main principles are well established. Although we do not get a majority for a proposal now, it may well be that the government parties think about it and think it is a good proposal, and that on a later occasion they will come back with just such a proposal. If that happens, at least we've achieved something with that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e986	I felt that the representative might not have responded correctly to the representative's pay line instead. In fact, it has been stated in the press that individual representatives of the Left Party cannot vote in line with their convictions, but must follow a sort of partyistic approach. Isn't this right?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e991	That's not true. As I said in the reply to the previous reply, it is quite clear that the representatives of the Left in this matter - and in other matters - have the full right to vote in line with their conviction. In the left we have no tradition of introducing any partisan, nor this matter. Let's be clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e996	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e999	Historical changes in values and cultural and moral norms are deep within us humans. Changes in these norms in a more inclusive direction have often been characterised as standard resolution and maturity. The skeletons can fall out of most parties if we talk about the treatment of tattoos, the research policy aimed at the Sami population and how we treated homosexuals far beyond the 1970s. This is why it is so important to see that legislation has an eye-catching effect. We have seen here today the representative Molvær Grimstad of the Christian People's Party take a completely different view of this with homophilis than was seen in the debates in 1972 and 1993. Now we hear that homosexuals should be fully respected, and that they are as good caregivers as other people. It shows how important it is to have legislators who go ahead and who go in order to eliminate discrimination in the law. I believe that when we get this matter under consideration, Lamentations will be presented with a proposal in which we eliminate the discrimination in today's legislation. I also see that there are principal aspects of this matter related to assisted fertilisation. The Christian People's Party was initially when this proposal first came up, opponents of assisted conception. Later the party has been against sperm donation also for heterophiles, whose sperm donor is not the woman's husband. So I understand that this can be a difficult matter for the Christian People's Party. But I don't understand that it's right to say that children's needs are set aside by this law. There is a political disagreement here. If the Placing agrees with the proposal, we remove the discrimination in today's legislation. For some people, marriage also has a religious aspect, and the government respects it. Therefore, the Church and other religious communities will have a right - an opportunity - to dedicate homosexuals, but thus no duty. The church meeting must in case develop a liturgy that allows priests to also conjure couples of the same sex. Until this happens, priests in the Norwegian Church cannot marry gay and lesbian couples. If priests in the Norwegian Church were to marry couples of the same sex, this would be contrary to the ordination promise, and Odelstinget has clarified that such marriages would be invalid. There has been a thorough investigation of this matter. There has been a broad consultation: 600 hearing bodies. There have been contacts directly to church organizations and free religious communities. It's been a philosophical review and a theological review. There has been a review of the child law consequences. In this context, we have looked at the wording ‘maintenance’. It's the same thing that's used when you're in danger, even in cases where there's a different donor than father. So at this point, we're using the same formulas for cohabitation as for sperm donation. Thus, the proposal for a new law is similar. There has also been a thorough review of the related child law and international consequences. The Children’s Convention is recognised in countries which have also assisted in the conception of lesbians. So it has not been contrary to the Children's Convention in these countries. As regards the adoption Convention, a new one has been adopted by the Council of Europe in May and is subsequently to be incorporated into Norwegian legislation. Here it is recognised that both homosexuals and cohabitants can adopt. So this is not in conflict with international conventions. There has been a literature review and research review of the impact on children. There has also been a reference group consisting of the Ministry, the Norwegian Church, religious communities, life-vision societies and stakeholder organisations, and all their views are very well known to the Government, which promotes this proposal. There have also been many people who have spoken out. It's been a lot of commitment. Representatives have received a number of enquiries. It shows that there has been a great deal of awareness in the Norwegian community about the proposal presented by the Laging today. In fact, the involvement has not been as great as it was in the Great Civil Action of the postwar period, the action against the distribution of prevention to the German Brigade, the time that the Gerhardsen government agreed to this. But it's been a great commitment. Many have expressed concern that Norway is carrying out an experiment by adopting this law. But we have marriages between people of the same sex in the Netherlands, Belgium, Canada, Spain and South Africa. We have access for homosexuals to adoption in Sweden, the Netherlands, Belgium, Spain and the United Kingdom. And access to assisted fertilisation for lesbian couples has therefore Denmark, Sweden, Finland and the United Kingdom. So this is done in several countries. In conclusion, I have to say that I find it interesting to see that many of the counter-arguments against common marriage law are the same as those used against the Partnership Act 15 years ago - among others. that there would be a deterioration in the position of marriage, that it would be devastating for society, that there would be no need for legal regulation, that there would be only a few people and that the case was too poorly investigated. Almost none of the opponents of common marriage law are currently attacking the Partnership Act. On the contrary, all parties today support the Partnership Act as a starting point, but some of us want to go further and eliminate the discrimination in today's legislation. Society has evolved, the recognition of homophilis is fortunately quite different today than it was in 1993 and 1972. The fact that we now vote on a proposal that gives homosexuals the opportunity to marry shows that marriage has a very strong position, not the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1025	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1028	It has been interesting to follow various reading instructions, e-mails, etc. which has come to this matter. I have also received many enquiries from heterophilic couples who want to adopt children. Many fear longer waiting time and that the possibility of adopting children from other countries will be limited. In fact, there are countries that say no that homosexuals can adopt, and it might go against heterophilic couples. The Council of State shares that concern, or considers that there will be as good opportunities, no longer waiting time, and that one has the same opportunities for the different countries as per. Is there cooperation with Norway today if this law is passed?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1035	Thus, the countries of Norway have an agreement on adoption with, do not recognise adoption by gay couples. It's part of their code that we're dealing with. Therefore, based on the countries with which we have an agreement today, there will be no conflict between current practices and what will happen when we adopt this law. On the other hand, we have looked at how today's adoption system means that many people have to wait longer because it is difficult for many to be given children, and there is a review of the whole policy of adoption communication that we want to do, regardless of this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1041	The Council of State said that this matter has been thoroughly investigated. The representative Borten Moe was a little more careful, he said it was figured out enough. Over the years, I have had the pleasure of leading four public investigative works in connection with legislation. And there's nothing in this case -- unless the investigation is kept secret then -- that's close to resembling an investigation to normal Norwegian standard. A hearing note with some random articles by individuals is not an investigation. And I hope that this or future government will not add the list as low in terms of law preparation as it has done in this case. In fact, the list has been put on the floor, and lower it is not possible to get there.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1048	I have noticed that in the discussion about the new marriage law, the investigation has been a major attack point. We do not get the traditional arguments against equality in the law that we got in the partnership debate or in the debate on decriminalising homophilis. So now there's an investigation that's the big anchor point. I believe that there is no investigation that could lead to the representative's salary and I had agreed on this matter. There is a political and valuable disagreement on the basis of which we have differing views on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1055	My claim is that with this law, the state will encourage fatherless families. With the help of the state, many Norwegian children will be deprived of their father, and instead the child will be assigned a co-mother who takes the place of his father. Although the child may know the name of his or her father after age 18, this person has no rights or obligations in relation to his or her child, he or she may not even be interested in having contact with his or her unknown child. Everyone agrees that the state should contribute to the best possible growth conditions for all children born. People can have children in any way without the state being able to do anything about it, but that the state encourages and facilitates fatherless families is something quite different. I just want to ask Huitfeldt how she assesses this serious matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1064	Legislators have arranged for fatherless families because we have passed laws that give lonely rights to be judged as adoptive parents. We know that many today are born into lesbian families where the donor is unknown. So with a change in the law, lesbians can deal with what is Norwegian law, and it's that the donor is known. So the consequence that we get a new Norwegian law in this area, if the Creation decides to adopt this, is that far more people get the opportunity to know their biological origin. Children are born into lesbian relationships, and the new law relates to reality as it is, and contributes to giving these children legal rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1069	I'm recording that the Council of State has a different approach to Creation than she had to Odelstinget, and it's with positiveness that I'm recording this. The government and Odelstinget have given the Church the right, but not the duty to dedicate gay and lesbian. The representative Eirin Fallet said in the debate: «Now the Church Meeting shall modify the liturgy so that priests can also consecrate like-minded couples. ‘... How does the Council of State address Eirin Faldet's statement in the debate on 11 June 2008?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1081	I record that the Christian People's Party has changed its view and has completely different views. But I completely disagree with the claims that lesbians put their own needs ahead of their children when they argue for this law. That's where the disagreement is. It is as strong in the Lamentation as it was in Odelstinget. So as far as the Church's opportunity to marry gay people is concerned, it's an opportunity they now have. But we have no intention of imposing such an arrangement on the Church. There's something the Church itself has to facilitate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1088	The council says she doesn't think she and I had agreed through an investigation. No, we'll never know. But the normal thing about Norwegian law-making processes - if you choose the open approach, to properly assess the consequences of legislation - is that you agree on something at least. When you choose to cut short a legislative process, which you have done this time, you exclude the possibility that there may be a broader form of consensus. I still have to claim that I - at least as long as I've been in Norwegian politics, that's not all the world, that's just about. 60 years in the awake state - has not seen the husband to do any law-making work, and I hope that in the future I will not see it either. It is remarkable to experience being a layman to be called in the morning on the same day that we are going to deal with the matter at Lagtinget, by one of the leading law experts on family law in this country, who makes me aware of just the wording that the Council of State defended in Section 4, and he says: It cannot possibly be meant to put it that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1093	thorough assessments have been carried out in this case. Legal experts have been working on these issues, so none of these proposals come without us looking at the consequences of them. Similar changes have been made in a number of other countries. This is a matter of political and valuable disagreement, and we have to discuss it, but the investigations have been very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1098	The cord shift is over. Afterwards, there is no access to cord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1103	The debate on common marriage law has engaged many. There is nothing I have received as many requests as this. A lot of people who have written and called me, think I've let myself be persuaded by skilled lobbyists. Well, if that were the case, I would have voted against it as just that, but the lobbyists have not won out in this case. Their arguments have not been good enough. Tolerance, respect and the removal of all discrimination against homosexuals, lesbians and their children is my starting point when it relates to the cause of Laving, must confirm the decision taken by Odelstinget. The most important thing is that, with these changes in laws, we give people, regardless of sexual orientation, the same dishes, that we give children, regardless of who their parents are, the same dishes. It's a saying for equality and equality, both social and legal. In the debate in Odelstinget last week, I heard that many of the opponents of the law used great words and strong wording that today's laws are not discriminatory, and that those of us who think that the law is just that create a more needy society, and that we have intolerant attitudes. My hold is that as long as a large group of people at all times have experienced and felt different aspects of society's treatment, restraint and respect as just discriminatory-- well, then we'll listen to it, take it seriously. It is those who live with the law closely on the body, who are best able to tell whether it is perceived as discriminatory or not. Therefore, it is my wish that we in the Creation draw the same conclusions as Odelstinget did, and remove the parts of our law that discriminate. Then we have done an important job in relation to the law, but perhaps even more important in relation to respect for the gays and lesbians' everyday lives -- respect for the fact that love is not limited by sexual orientation. I married just over a year ago. It was a great day for my wife and me--a brand day in our lives. Marriage is great and good. Many of those who have committed themselves to me and are strongly opposed to the changes in the marriage law have been concerned that homosexuals and lesbians now have the same possibility. Many people have given the impression that marriage as an institution is falling. This will neither frame, undermine nor remove the joy of marriage for heterophilic couples. My marriage will still be worth as much even if gay people get the same right as me to marry. Getting more is not a restriction and downgrading, it's an extension and a strength. The more people who want to make a commitment to love through marriage, the stronger the marriage. We're now going to expand that possibility, and we're going to eliminate a wrong in the law. When the Partnership Act was introduced, they were the same arguments against the law that we have today against the marriage law. There was a warning of norm resolution and rootlessness in society, and it was warned that marriage would lose its value. What's happened? Norway was the other country in the world that introduced the law of partnership. When the law came, he was very radical and contentious. The experience behind it is clearly positive, and many of those who were then strong and principled opponents are now hot defenders. This did not lead to the downgrading of the heterophilic marriage as someone claimed, and most of them are also certain that the law of partnership has not contributed to either root resolution or norm resolution. The Partnership Act gave many homosexuals the opportunity to secure their relationship legally and financially. And most importantly, he led to a public recognition of gay and lesbian love. Now 18 countries have introduced partnership laws, and five countries, the Netherlands, Belgium, Spain, South Africa and Canada, have introduced common marriage laws. Norway will be the sixth country. Those who are today strong opponents of the marriage law, and who use the same arguments that were used against the law of partnership in its time, should, in my opinion, learn from our close history. The Partnership Act was important in its time, but the Partnership Act contains two major weaknesses. The one is related to the possibility of marriage by a church wedding. Now we get a law that makes the law clear on the day Church is ready. My commitment and my strong desire is that we no longer have two different laws for people with different sexual orientations, but one common law for all who love each other and want to formalize it. The second important reason is the care of children and their children's dishes. The Partnership Act has not been good enough. Children who are born will eat the same dishes regardless of who their parents are. It's not like that today, and it surprises me that all the opponents of the law accept that children should grow up with different dishes, depending on who their parents are. That is why I am also in favour of gay and lesbians being given the right to be assessed as adoptive parents. Today, it's so that singles can adopt, including single gays, and gay partners can adopt the other one's children through star children's adoption. Then, in my opinion, it also follows as a natural consequence that gay couples should be given the right to be assessed as adoptive parents. We can't have it so that gay people are seen as good caregivers when they live alone, but are completely unmistakable and not owned as caregivers when they live with the one they love. It's in case of discrimination based on people's sexual orientation and love life, as I see it. And of course, I'm aware that the countries that Norway adopts from refuse to adopt homosexuals. Of course, we respect that. This amendment will therefore primarily have implications for domestic adoption. But the fact that Norway gives this possibility, for the rest of the world, shows that we have a law that looks at the children in the center, and we get a law that's clear on the day other countries get ready to follow our example. The same applies to assisted fertilization. Today many lesbian couples travel to other countries to have assisted fertilization carried out there. We want one to open up to that possibility also in Norway. This will be in line with the recommendations of a majority in the Biotechnology topic. We want these children to be as legally guaranteed at birth as other children, and we therefore suggest that children be born into lesbian marriages where the child is the result of assisted conception, have both as legal parents from the beginning of. The Christian People's Party and the Advance Party are clearly not occupied by the children in this context. At least they have no suggestions to suggest. I see that the opponents of the law are very concerned that children should know their biological origin. There is another possibility, because in Norway, unknown donors are not allowed. What I don't understand is that one still goes against the possibility of being assessed for assisted fertilization for homosexuals, while obviously it's quite good for heterophiles. Every year about 100 children were born during assisted fertilization here in the country, with sperm donors. And everyone is quite clear that those who are born with heterophilic parents should have exactly the same dishes as any other child, while for those who are born with lesbian parents, they should be different. For me, it's impossible to get away from the fact that it's discriminatory. There are so many family relationships in Norway. It's family with mother and father and child, it's family with a father and child, a mother and child, two fathers and two mothers. That's how reality is, and we can stick to it or leave it alone. Those who want to change the law, stick to that reality. It will benefit the story if we assume that everyone should have the same dishes. It is not forbidden today to be gay or lesbian, and none, I think, would suggest that it should be. It is not forbidden for homosexuals and lesbians to live together, nor do I think anyone would suggest that it should be. And finally, it's not forbidden for lesbians to give birth. The inconsistency in the law is if we continue that these children should not have the same dishes as other children. That's what we're about to fix, and that's what this is about. Last Wednesday many people let a tear or two fall after Odelstinget's decision. They felt that a discriminatory law was changed, they felt that the law in Norway would no longer treat them differently, assess their love in another way, and they felt that the children should have the same dishes anyway. Our job today is to confirm it and not to help people have to shed tears because discrimination continues.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1152	I don't know how many of the Lamentations' members have experience trying out as amateur electricians. It's not recommended. Then one discovers that there is something called short-circuit, and that is an unpleasant experience. When this case has caused such enormous emotions among the voters, I think it's because we've arranged a process that makes a lot of voters feel that they've been led behind the lights. And there are very few people who are so connected that they are happy to be led behind the light. Democracy requires voters to know what they're voting for and what they're voting for. I have a very great understanding that voters can feel led by the light if they have voted for representatives in the Storting, assuming that they are going to take a particular position on matters that are important for the voters, and then experience that they have been harmed to support the sharp opposite position. This is actually a democratic problem. One of the reasons why we usually take time to carry out basic legislative reforms in Norwegian society is that both political parties and others will have an opportunity to think through consequences, to have the opportunity to exercise influence as a citizen before it is too late, and not after it is too late. There is no sign of health in any society if a not insignificant number of voters experience that they have been deprived of the opportunity to express their views on difficult regulatory issues. Today's legal situation, after we adopted the Partnership Act in its time, is that Norwegian society has taken into account that in terms of living together between people of different sex and persons of the same sex, there is something that is fundamentally similar, and that requires exactly the same protection on the part of society, and that is something fundamentally different and that no parliament in this world can lift through majority decisions. Of course, two people of the same sex can have children -- both of them -- and they can take care of themselves so that they give birth at the same time, if they're female. The only thing they can't do is get kids together. It cannot be lifted, and it is not repealed by legislative acts. The only thing you can choose to do politically is say that's what we're aware of, but that doesn't mean anything. It's irrelevant. It's a position that I don't have the courage to falsify. Because it is strange that a parliament that is otherwise concerned with using legislative decisions in all areas to establish gender balance on the assumption that there should be fundamental differences between the sexes - it is a work hypothesis that I have a strong sense of - suddenly decides to use the law to declare that the gender difference is irrelevant in the only area in the world where it is proven to be necessary. And that's actually what Storting is about to entangle itself in, according to my concepts. When I'm concerned about the process, it's because I'm fundamentally convinced that if the Storting adopts all the legislative changes that lie here, that are loosely bound together, and that have no consequences, this will be one of the most short-lived laws in Norway's history. A society can live, and must live, with a certain measure of contradiction and inconsistency, but there are limits to how far one can legislate against self. The motive for common marriage law is that the entrance to marriage, i.e. the marriage, should be exactly the same for everyone. It could have been achieved by the government if it had proposed to introduce mandatory civil marriage, but at that point one folds back and suddenly becomes pragmatic, not to say opportunistic, with the only reason that it is strenuous for people to spend ten minutes at the beehive. At least that's not in principle justified. It is said that this decision abolishes discrimination with regard to the right to the participation of society in the raising of children. No, you definitely don't. You just reduce it by 50 pst. one replaces an intelligible discrimination, which can be justified - I do not say that one has to agree, but it is understandable and possible to justify, on the basis of its nature - with discrimination which is incomprehensible and impossible to justify. It is referred to that lesbians sit on buses and travel here and there. Yes, they do. There's an increasing number of male like-minded people on the plane of the United States, and there's a lot of people from the United States who sit on the plane of India and buy women for a period of nine months because they think they have the same right as others to have children. Why is the argument valid in the case of lesbians, but not in the case of males? Should the children that come into existence in that way be innocent - based on the logic that you're arguing about here? The council said instead, I perceived her at least there, that the argument of law preparation was kind of tactical maneuvers to cover the factual disagreement. No, it's not. In fact, I believe that a society must have such self-respect, and at least a legislative assembly must have such self-respect, that it is not entangled in obvious contradictions and inconsistency in legislation. The reason we have a laydown is that the fathers at Eidsvoll wanted to ensure the quality of the legislative process. The size must be allowed in the cabin and the weather, I interpret them that way, but it cannot be allowed as a legislator to legislate in the cabin and weather. I have come to the conviction, for my part, that I have to vote against the whole package because it does not hold the goal. And I have to remember -- since those who are excited about what the Storting is doing have used very big historical words, it has to be allowed for us who are fundamental sceptical too, perhaps -- that it was not the fathers of Eidsvoll who first invented the idea that legislation is a serious matter, and that it requires quality assurance. In fact, it is already stated in the Norwegian law of Magnus Lagbøtes: Land is to be built by law, and not by illegal destruction.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1176	I realize that it is entirely possible to discuss what kind of law preparation process you should have, and it would not, of course, be against me if you had had other processes. But I think Inge Wohnung now goes way too far by calling what we are now facing, a process of 'in the cabin and weather'. What is actually happening is that the Committee has wanted to deal with the legislative proposals and that the Odelstingen have adopted them, and it is not ‘in terms of weather’. When a committee goes to the step of dealing with changes in the law, I assume that it does not happen in the cabin and weather, and that it does not happen in the cabin and weather when Odelstingen actually adopts the laws. You have to remember, here are four of the Big One's six games behind, even though there are minorities, in and out, in multiple games. But then four of the Biggest parties agree that this legislative change process should be implemented and led to a decision. Then I want to say that laws create norms. Of course, they regulate relationships between individuals. They regulate relationships between individuals and the state. They provide sanctions. But laws also contribute to the creation of norms. We see this very clearly in this area, namely that changes in favour of lesbians and gays have changed attitudes in society itself. In this debate, reference has been made to what the Labour Party Government thought in 1993, and the Central Party has been confronted with what they have previously meant. Yes, that's the way society is, after all, society has been moving towards greater rights for all groups. It's been happening for at least 100 years. Church history is an incredible example of the fact that things that were previously condemned are now widely accepted. The history of the Labour Party, to which reference has been made in this debate, is a good example of that, and the history of most parties is a good example of our being on the road and changing in relation to how society changes, and what kind of rights we think the different groups and individuals should have. This is not abnormal at all. If we also look at similar debates throughout history, they have been marked by harsh words and strong claims, but in the light of history, these strong claims and opinions have appeared to be quite absurd. When we look at debates that have been conducted in the past, and look at the strong words that have been uttered, no one today believes it had a very strong relevance. It did at the time, but today our attitudes to such things have changed considerably. Åse M. Schmidt said that what we're doing now is changing the basic structure of society: mother, father and children. Does it? It doesn't change the ratio that those who are heterosexual, they're still heterosexual, and those who are gay, they're still gay. The law does not require anyone to change sexual orientation. It's not that marriage between father and mother, between woman and man, changes. It is still possible to marry on that basis. The only thing that changes is that those who are gay are also given the opportunity to marry. This law doesn't require anyone to have a special equation. It won't lead to anyone changing sexual orientation, I think, but what it leads to is that it gives equal rights to the sexual legations we have in society. So marriage is at all not threatened -- not the marriage between father and mother. But we get an additional dimension, that's that there's also the possibility of marriage between gay and lesbian. So it doesn't threaten any of us, if there's no one who seriously means that I'm changing sexual orientation because we've got a new law passed by the Stortinget. I don't believe in that. Then it was also said by Åse M. Schmidt that children have the best upbringing with their mother and father. I think you have to look at that claim a little bit based on the reality, which is that unfortunately too many children live up to parents who defy them. There is no scientific basis for claiming that this will be worse for children living in gay or lesbian marriages. It's actually now that we have a lot of kids, with mom and dad, who live up to the situation where they get spoiled. It doesn't mean, of course, that there's no argument against marriage between women and men, but it's just that it's not as simple as that statement was supposed to say. And I'm going to think that in the same way that today there are children living in very difficult conditions, there will also be children living in difficult marriages between gay and lesbian. But the statement that came here has no general validity. It lacks the basis of research, and it lacks the basis of experience that we actually have in the society in which we live. It has also been said that we must take into account those who are not asked. No children are asked which parents they want. There are some children who might wish they had been asked, but no one has that right. You have to live up to the conditions you saw being offered. Many times society intervenes to protect children. Until now, it has almost only happened in marriage between mother and father. That it might happen in marriage between lesbians and gays, I can't rule out. On the contrary, you can view it as very likely. That's why we have the protection of children and a device to help them. We will also get that in this case. But what happens is that everyone gets equal rights and greater protection. What is happening now is that children who live in a relationship between gay and lesbian get rights from birth, and they also get the right to know their biological father if they wish. So this law extends the rights of one group, but it doesn't weaken the rights of another group. So, in my opinion, society is getting stronger. We get more justice. And I'm going to think that these laws will once again help change attitudes in society, as we've seen in this area for quite a few years. Today, we are talking about this in a very straightforward way in our society, and when we have a debate in Stortinget, in a way that we can feel proud of. We couldn't do that just ten years ago. So society is moving forward. We are all en route: the Church, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party -- all parties -- have been and will be en route on all such questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1197	By putting each other in a booth, we make this case much easier and easier than it is. The issue is not served by this, nor by the political debate, nor by the general debate on society on this important issue. The majority of the Committee’s position on assisted conception states that the reason for opening up marriages between two of the same sexes is to grant these same rights as couples in heterophilic marriages. One consequence of this is to amend the Biotechnology Act and offer lesbian couples assisted fertilisation. But if we look at today's biotechnology law, we see that it demands that the man is infertile or bears a hereditary, serious disease. A pair of two women will not initially have a medical or unexplained cause of infertility. Although this may be a medical reason, it is usually not because two lesbian women do not have children. So the plural comment justifies the purpose of giving equal rights to lesbian and heterophilic couples that there should be equality. But what is happening today is that lesbians get their own rights in Section 2-3 and Section 2-4 of the new Biotechnology Act. But if the purpose - and I base it on it - of the majority of the committee, consisting of the Center Party, the Workers' Party and the SV, is equality between heterophilic and lesbian, what about the gays? Why doesn't the Government order these too to have the same right that lesbian couples get today if this law goes through? Because if there is a principleal way of thinking that underlies the majority, not a biological, there is a logical flaw in the line of reasoning of the government parties in this area. I meet men who today believe that the government is pursuing a discriminatory policy towards them, because gay people are not being equated with lesbians. Because if we were to have equality, they also had to get homosexuals legal rights. They may have to receive financial support in connection with adoption or with surrogate mothers. Yesterday I came across a more recent poll where the question is: Do you think it is as ideal for children to grow up with two men or two women as growing up with both a mother and a father? 52 pst. black no, 32 pst. replied yes, and 14 pst. said they didn't know. A year ago, the National Association for Lesbian and Homofil released a survey in which the majority replied that it was not harmful for a child to grow up in two men. There's a big difference between asking if a child is injured by growing up with two men, and whether it's ideal to grow up with two of the same sex. I want to say that the question in LLH's study adds up to an attack on single-homophiles that I take a great distance from. For many homosexuals are good caregivers, yes, most are, as most mothers and fathers are. But as legislator, we're going to make the best possible use of it. Psychiatrists Solveig Bugge Lande says that gender generally complements each other, and that it is important to maintain that the differences meet each other. But we know that our society is not just of the simple kind. Therefore, it is also important to provide for the other forms of care that will arise for different reasons. It does the Christian People's Party. We take that into account. But we want that when we're going to make new laws and facilitate new things, we're going to put what we think is best for the children, to the foundation. That is why we will be voting against the legislative amendments adopted by Mr Odelstinget last week.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1225	When we have this debate in Lagtinget today, it is because it is possible to have that debate in Laginget. It is not unregulated to have that debate. There is nothing in the Rules of Procedure or anything else to have this debate in the Lamentations today. So I do not understand the representative's indignantness that we are at all discussing this here today. In fact, I react very strongly to the representative's talking about this matter, and my view in this matter, as if we were doing something that we were doing in the cabin and weather. It's not to have respect for the opposite view. The representative Schmidt talked about that if one went into the darkness and sat down and thought about it, it might be that one came out again and knew what to vote in this matter. She also talked about that if someone took off the staff phase or had somehow not been whipped in place, a person might know what to do in this matter. Many with me have for very many years never been whipped in place, never had any staff or had any need to go into dark rooms to find out what we think about this matter. This matter is a matter of values, culture and moral norms that are deep within us humans. Changes on those points can be very difficult. In 1913, women were given the right to vote. It was also values and culture that were the reason why we women did not have voting rights until 1913. Fortunately, there was no need for a large department to investigate whether women should be given the right to vote. It was the heads, the hearts and the senses that said that women should have the right to vote. Today we're going to go a step further in changing norms and values. It is non-discrimination and the human rights aspect that, once again, must be the main argument for us to make the right choices. I am proud to take part in this decision today. Whether the marriage is made in the church or at the bequest, or the Human-Ethical League has a ceremony, the marriage to me is a testament to love. There's love between two people. There's nothing better than love between two people. Love does not need investigation. What love needs is our acceptance and respect. Many have tried to turn this debate into a discussion of jus and formalities, a discussion in which one believes that this issue needs to be addressed more and more. With all due respect for those who believe the opposite of what I do, I believe that if we had investigated this, down, down and back for 20 more years, several of those who oppose the marriage law would never have been satisfied with the investigations, and they would, as the Council of State said in its speech, probably fall to the same position as they are doing today. They would still be against a common marriage law, because there is not the law in itself many are against, but it is that homophiles are going to be part of it. I have received many e-mails and telephones. I come from a part of the country where many have engaged in this matter. The content of many of the e-mails and telephones is not suitable for printing. But it is the argument about marriage between man and woman that has gone back as a red thread in the e-mails I have received. They have justified it by investigation, but in some ways they have concluded in advance. Yesterday there was a lady named Ingrid, who called me and wondered if I would take responsibility for the Sodom and Gomorrah that will come after the decision we hopefully will make today. I take that responsibility. What I think is sad, in relation to the e-mails and phones I have received, is that such attitudes actually exist, and that our children, whether they live in heterophilic or gay relationships, will grow up with attitudes of that character. Whether we're investigating, my answer will be the same. I've grown up with parents who told me that justice, non-discrimination and human rights are the most important values we have. That the new law is a difficult matter for many, I respect, but we should sometimes call a spade a spade. Because I think there are many people who have never made a deal with their own story in the view of gay people. The arguments are in a way that they've always been before, but they're carried on in a new wrapping. More people who are against the law use the children as arguments, that children need mother and father. What children need is care, love and respect. I have two children myself, and I have worked with children for many years before I entered the Stortinget. Yes, children enjoy going to kindergarten and school and otherwise have role models. But it's not that gay people have family patterns other than us that are heterophilic. It's not that all lesbian couples just have lesbian friends. They have grandma, grandpa, sisters and brothers and everything that everyone else has that will be their role models. All of them are good role models in gay couples' relationships and in heterophilic couples' relationships. Giving children good life and security is the most important thing. This is not a package solution, as the representative on the payroll calls it. It is also not a biological issue that several representatives have been involved in. It's a matter, as I've said before, of non-discrimination and human dignity, and it's a matter of love. There's a matter of love between women and men, between men and men, and between women and women. It's a matter of the rights of all the children, no matter where you live or how you live. So I'll finally say that it's true, as many people have been about, that society is evolving and changing - fortunately for that. Now we take a big step when we make this decision today. I have to say, I have good faith in the future. When I talk about this matter with my children, they wonder what in the kingdom of heaven is the problem. There they are. They have come much further than I had when I was 16 or 18 years old. It gives me hope for the future, regardless of the e-mails and the contents of them, which I have received, which show the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1248	First of all, to the question of whether there is an investigative basis for not agreeing to the Odelsting decision. At my discretion, there is no such thing. On the contrary, there are many good reasons for consenting to the Odelsting decision. For those who use arguments about the process and the legal formulas, this is playing a role, at my discretion, in relation to the actual argument about the view of value. In this way, I think we're more alike in this coating than some choose to express. So at the beginning of the debate, where Åse M. Schmidt tried to create the impression that the Workers' Party has changed its position from 1993 until now. That's perfectly correct. It is absolutely right that the Workers' Party has changed its position, and thank you and the price for it. I think it is far worse for those people who have not been able to change either their position or their view of how society should actually work, from 1993 to today. I think the law is a good thing. I believe that those who have wanted have had the opportunity to express their opinion on the actual legal work that has been done. Not least, the involvement of the last few months has underlined it and been strongly influenced by it. In the questions arising from this case, I base values and social norms on my assessment of the whole. Is there any basis for discriminating gay and lesbian couples through specific rules for heterofiles? In my view, there is no such basis. On the contrary, there are many reasons why they should be subject to the same laws as heterophilic ones. They should also be subject to the same rights and to the same strict rules for the assessment of care ability, for example. in the case of adoption or, in the case of assisted fertilisation. Many have claimed that by means of the new marriage law, we are destroying the marriage as a framework. The fact is that in 2006, slightly over 200 partnerships were concluded in Norway. In my view, when these partnerships are to be covered by the marriage law in the future and with it as a framework, this will in no way destroy the importance of the marriage law, rather the marriage law. The most valuable act of marriage is, in my opinion, neither in the church nor in the filth writer's office, either according to the law. The most important framework of marriage is, in my opinion, the promise between two people who choose to give each other their yes. When it comes to being concerned about marriage as a framework for love, and putting it in perspective, I'm going to mention some numbers from my own county that show that in 2007 675 marriages were made, while 350 chose to leave it. When we see it in relation to the number of partners that will marry in the future, I think this is completely out of proportion. In addition to having a common marriage law, we now grant gay and lesbian rights to adopt, and lesbian rights to assisted conception. To take the right to adoption first, yes, it's a right to be assessed in relation to adoption. Who is to adopt is regulated by a very strict regulation, and I think that is good. A number of aspects are taken into account: care ability, dependability, stability, family conditions, etc. There are quite a number of people in this country who are trying to adopt and who think the legislation is too strict. I am convinced that if gay, lesbian, lonely, or heterophile get through the loop in relation to adoption, there are some assessments that have been made in advance, that serve the child and the child's best interests. With regard to the right to assisted conception, the main argument against denying the child the right to know their biological origin. Out in real life, in fact, many children do not have the right to know their biological origin, regardless of homophilic, lesbian, assisted conception or one. It's a fact how society works. But I agree that biological origin is important, and in many ways it is the way nature goes. Many in this room have the opportunity to reflect on the significance of biological origin in relation to the law we are now discussing, precisely on the basis of the fact that many in this room, based on statistics, actually do not know their biological origin. I'm not going to say that the Creation members are in that position, but it gives cause for reflections on biological origin is what is basically the crucial thing. Well, at my discretion, of course, it's not. It's caring, it's possible to take care of things, it's possible to take care of things, and so on. which is also important in relation to assisted fertilisation. And another fact: I think those who choose assisted conception have carefully thought through and carefully assessed relationships associated with having a child-- I don't think that's the worst starting point for being caught and coming to this earth. I'm not going to assume the role of defining the meaning of Odelsting's decision, whether it's historical or not, but I'm convinced that it's a right decision Odelstinget has made, a decision that will help break down - after what I've seen and recorded in recent debate - prejudices. We want to strengthen equivalency, and we want to promote equality. At the same time, in my opinion and in my opinion, from the actual text of the law, it will help to promote the equivalency of children in how they will live in this society, regardless of how they have come to this world, regardless of their origin, regardless of the type of parent they have. It is crucial to me for my choice and my vote in these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1265	Let me begin by admitting that this is a very difficult matter, difficult because at the personal level it has called for long reflection and some painful processes up to my conclusion today. The main reason for my position - and there I am glad that the Central Party is free of its representatives - which is different from the position of the majority of the party, and perhaps different from that of the majority in this Chamber, at one point, is what has been mentioned by several speakers here, namely the lack of equal treatment of some of our fellow human beings outside the community. Some have argued in this Chamber that there is no formal basis for the type of discrimination that is taking place. It's possible that it's not legal, but there's no doubt, if you've given yourself time to talk to people who are gay or lesbian, that you've felt that you're not treated equally. It goes on that you have a different sexual orientation than what is officially accepted. They feel devalued, they feel like second-rate people. And there's a strong need for a visible acceptance to be equivalent. I believe that, with the proposals for legislative changes under consideration today, we are taking an important step towards countering that type of discrimination. Like others, I can't see that the law that might be passed is a weakening of marriage as an institution. The people who choose marriage -- which most of us have done -- still have a solid basis to stand on. The present proposal also provides another important prerequisite: equivalence with respect to adoption. Equivalence is an important prerequisite for child education. I'm not going to say that someone has said that heterofiles are far better at raising children than the lesbian or gay ones are. I just notice that heterophilic parents can have children with a different sexual orientation than they have--and it can hardly be traced back to the mission. That's why it's my conviction that gay and lesbian parents have the opportunity and the will to raise children based on what's most important, that you have the capacity to feel, love and understanding. And then, in retrospect, the child's sexual orientation will show where it ends. It's about having faith in equivalence and having faith in the individual's ability to live a good life. I also support the majority who oppose the proposal on civil marriage. It's possible that once in the future we can get there, but to me marriage is such an important institutional act in the Church's ritual that I'm not going to rock it at this point. So to what's my attitude, and that separates me from the majority in my party: I won't vote for assisted conception. I'm not going to go into the depth of the argument about why, but I'm going to focus on one aspect of it. It meets some of the people who have a different sexual orientation -- the lesbians. The gay people don't have the same opportunity. I don't want to be involved in designing a law now where one facilitates such discrimination. It has been said in the debate here that the legislative amendments that have been tabled are a short cut, and that some of us have led the voters behind the light - they have failed. It's possible that someone will feel that way. I think the minority of voters will feel that way. But we have other laws where we have failed our fellow humans by the fact that the laws are discriminatory. In that case, this is not new. I want to ask you to put up the vote so that II, which is about changes in the Children's Act, is voted over after III. If there is a majority for assisted fertilization, it would be natural to follow this up by amending the child's law - for the sake of the child. To those who are dismayed that we rock in fundamental conditions in the Church's configuration, I will make the words of the parish priest home to mine. He said the following about the situation we're up in: "What matters to me as a priest in the Church is that the Church should have an open door. Everyone, regardless of sexual orientation, should be welcome to an inclusive and involved Church. ‘... I think the Church is capable of complying with this law, too, if it is passed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1294	Debate in Creation is a rarity. It is natural, because fortunately it is rare that legislative proposals in Norway are so controversial that they are subject to longer debates in an extra round after the Odelstinget has taken its decisions. But when the institution in its time got this safety valve as the Creation is, it was to ensure that the law work in the kingdom was not to be rushed, but subject to assessment over time. I guess today some of us would say that it was wise thinking. Unfortunately, the proposal for a common marriage law for same-sex couples and different-sex couples has become a controversial issue. In many it has a keen enthusiasm, such a great enthusiasm that it has been solemnly celebrated. It's not hard for me to understand that. At the same time, with other guards, it has become so perplexed and a resignation that it has raised a people's reaction and collected 50,000 signatures against the law. It's no less difficult to understand. At least I can't remember a case in the 15 years I've been on Stortinget, where I've received so many enquiries from people who've been in despair all over the country. There is no doubt that this bill has not worked in concert, but has been more suitable to split the people in Norway. That may not have been the purpose of the law - at least that should not have been the intention. Time heals all wounds, we mean to say. Is that right? I think a lot of this could have been avoided if you had chosen another solution. I don't think that objectively is a crazy description when it is now said that the new law implies a completely new legal state in the sphere of life in Norway, a legal state that will break with one to the nearest universal understanding of what a marriage is. Therefore, I have asked: why was it so urgent to introduce a completely new legal state in one of the most central areas of society, without the consequences being properly investigated? In comparison, we can refer to constitutional proposals with far less scope than this law -- or this law complex, which it is more appropriate to say. After all, they have to be above a decision-making power, so that two thirds of the majority are needed to be adopted. On the other hand, the new common law was introduced in the government statement on Soria Moria and is now being hammered through by a simple majority two and three quarters of a year later. This is contrary to the way we have progressed when we have drafted laws in this country, and it is not democratic either. I have heard that I have tried to apologize for the fact that the bill has been consulted by more than 600 hearing bodies, and that an impact assessment is to be consistent. In that case, there is a new understanding of what a impact assessment is. Nor have we listened to these hearings. A large number of them have just pointed out the lack of investigations. It has now been referred to France, where, as you know, such an impact assessment was carried out. There it was found that the best thing was to leave the proposal, because it was found that such a law would be contrary to children's rights. I will not say more about the lack of investigations, but just refer to my interaction in the United Kingdom on 17 January this year to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality on this very topic. This case has made a lot of feelings on both sides. That, of course, is understandable. Nevertheless, it is a very bad thing to experience the addition of attitudes and opinions that you don't have. Now it is to be said that I and everyone with me should go in themselves and be on guard against hidden negative attitudes and thoughts. We owe it to do that. But I feel quite unreasonable when I'm accused of believing that people with gay lay should be less able to love, that their love is somewhat less valuable, or that gay and lesbians are inferior to humans. Unfortunately, I have met such accusations. I should just answer for myself, but I have little faith that this characterizes the opponents of this law in general. Most, I think, today have opened up homosexuals in their family or their circle of associates. Even I've had it for years. It should be miles away from me to think about these that they didn't have the same human dignity as everyone else, or that their ability to give and receive love is of a somewhat different kind of reason. I even believe that some of them may be distinguished family people and very well suited to caring for and raising children, at least as well or perhaps better than myself. This I think is actually a common perception among those I know. In spite of this, it may not be illegitimate to claim that the most appropriate thing is to have two laws in this area. The reasons given for this are well known. For me personally, it's as simple as a marriage is an obliging life contract between one of each sex put into a social relationship. This is the basic cell itself in the community building and the one that is able to bring children to the world naturally. That doesn't mean that all different-looking couples can have children, or it's a human right to have children. But the law has to take this as a starting point. The use of reproductive assistants of unknown origin across established genealogical and family boundaries becomes a risky experiment for an entire society. Some would say, of course, that this will happen in the hidden anyway and at all times, but it is something other than that it is put into the system. We don't know the consequences of this. We've heard of cases from other countries where two who were going to get married, in the last few years, discovered that they were half-sibling. Until today we have lived with two laws in this area in Norway. The strange thing is that until a few years ago, there has been a common opinion in Norwegian opinion that regulated gay life as implemented by the Partnership Act represents something other than marriage. This was also evident in the debate on the 1993 Partnership Act. Now it's earlier in the debate quoted from the proposition that underlined this, I'm not going to repeat it. The majority of the family committee, all parties except the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party, have this time shown that - and I quote - 'as long as it operates with two laws and two names of heterophilic and homophilic collaboration, there will be room for discrimination'. So those in favour of the Partnership Act have reached a completely different conclusion today. Of course, I agree with the representative, Mr Jagland, that we are all on the way and that we have all changed our positions. I'm not going to go on with it. But I just note that what was not discriminatory in 1993 is today and will be so in the future. Discrimination is not something that can be ruled out. It could happen, even if we get a common law. A two - law system is based on different treatment. In principle, different treatments may be both necessary and factual. Where different treatment or discrimination is necessary, factually and does not involve a disproportionate attack on the individual, it may be accepted. In principle, therefore, there is no indication of opposition to a gender-neutral marriage law as discrimination against homosexuals. It is justifiable to reserve the concept of marriage, and therefore also the marriage law, for a commitment to living together between men and women. Homophilt cohabitation is actually something other than heterophilic cohabitation, and society must be able to have specific legal rules for cohabitation that can contribute to reproduction. Moreover, the fact that the marriage law is reserved for the relationship of woman-man cannot be regarded as disproportionate to the homosexuals, all the time when they have the same or equivalent rights and obligations of heterosexual couples by means of the Partnership Act. It's a shame that we're in a situation where the people are divided in view of what's the very essence of society. It is also tragic that the view of the vast majority of all churches is completely devalued. I understand that the church communities are now anxious to be put under pressure and forced into an arrangement they do not find is in line with their teachings and theology. That is why there is every reason to ask for work to be started in order to investigate the establishment of a mandatory civil marriage. If we are to be able to live with a law of commitment, the church and life views must be set free from the obligation to be a wedding authority. The legal act should be governed by public law, so churches and religious communities can take care of the ceremonial part. It will probably be the only system we can live with in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1324	When Odelstingen held his debate on this matter, many people used the terms "a historic day" and "a great day". It is relatively often spoken of large days from the Great Council. It's not always that the decisions that are taken reflect the big words that are being used. But in this particular case, when it comes to this particular law, the word "historical" makes sense. We now abolish all legal discrimination against homosexuals and lesbians, and as a society, make a mark that heterophilic and homosexual love have the same status, that it is equally worth it. It's truly historic. There has been a long way to go -- through decriminalisation, removal of homophilis as a disease diagnosis, to the partnership law and to this marriage law we are discussing today. History has imposed a harsh sentence on those who in their time voted against legalizing homophili in Norway. There's only one question I could imagine asking to those who voted against decriminalization at the time: how could you? Faced with an active choice - should homophilis continue to be criminal in Norway, the love of others should be forbidden - many thought so. How could they? I think the same question will be asked when the generations after us are going to learn that someone voted against two people who love each other being allowed to marry. A repetition of this debate has been that this is not about discrimination, that marriage per person. definition is a sacred pact between men and women, on which, as politicians, we have no mandate to change. But, of course, this is about discrimination! How a religion defines marriage, we politicians don't have anything to do with it. I believe it is right that the Church is not required to consecrate homosexuals and lesbians, although many hope that it will gradually do just that. But the marriage we're discussing, what is given by Norwegian law, is the legal framework around a life. For me, it is incomprehensible that there is no discrimination when some forms of life do not provide the same opportunity for a safe and predictable framework. The gay community is not something we decide or not adopt, it's not homophiles we vote for or oppose. It's whether the homosexuals who live with and without children - often planned, welcome, long-term children - have the same rights as I have that heterophile. - We take the children from a father, is another repetition. No, we don't. There are many thousands of children growing up with mother and co-mother in our community, there's no father in the picture. It also has no world thing with what kind of decisions we make on this house. When you listen to some debaters, here at Stortinget, we seem to decide what kind of family constellations kids should live in. Fortunately, we have no way of doing that. But we give the kids who live in such families, for example. with mother and mother, entitled to two parents from birth and the same rights through the law as any other child. That is a great step forward. At the same time, we send a strong signal to society and to all the kids who have parents of the same sex, that they live in full families, that they are valued in the same way as everyone else. How can this be turned into a debate that is not about discrimination? It is one thing that you can live by voting in favour of discrimination against adult people, but that some people oppose giving full rights and ending discrimination against these kids is very difficult for me to understand. The Christian People's Party has no honorable history in the fight for the rights of the homosexuals. Maybe that's why they're trying to turn this over into a discussion that's going to be primarily about the kids and about how we put the children's needs aside in order to meet the demands of adult homosexuals. It seems as if it is very difficult to understand that for many of the warmest defenders of this law too, securing children's rights has been the most important thing. How will the Christian People's Party and the Advancement Party explain to the thousands of young people who are now strengthened their rights, that it was for their sake that they voted against their parents' ability to marry? It's a close question to ask. What is it that you're so afraid of? Are those who seriously believe that society is close to disintegrating, when more people get the right to a firm framework around their society? Is there actually anyone who believes that the marriage institution is weakened by the possibility for more people to participate in it? Or is this really about the lack of tolerance for homofiles and the recognition that gay love is as much worth as it heterofiles? That two people who love each other are exactly that, neither more nor less regardless of gender. When did love become a threat to society? I'm terribly proud that as a society we are finally ready to take this important step as a common marriage law. When someone says that the Labour Party stamps the partnership law as discriminatory by going under common marriage law, I believe they have the right to do so. Whenever I'm happy to belong to a party that broke the Partnership Act, it's because that law took us many and long steps towards today. The fight to eliminate all discrimination against homosexuals through Norwegian law was not concluded with the Partnership Act, but we went in the right direction. The Labour Party has always done that, not always fast enough, not always with long enough steps, but it's always going in the right direction, and we've always gone first. Others have objected, and they are still struggling when we finally achieve equal rights for everyone who loves each other. It is horrifyingly paradoxical that while large religious communities are fighting the recognition of homophilic love as equivalent heterophilic love, the long-standing struggle of homosexuals has fully shown us the love that endures all, believes all, hopes all, endures all. The task of the creation is to ensure the legal work. Rarely have we been presented with a decision that has been through a longer process, a process that has taken place in Norwegian society and in the political environment for decades. One can try to reduce this to a debate on formalities, but the decision taken on 11 June was made by a noble-minded and fully aware of the implications of these legislative changes. It was a wise, well-considered and, not least, a correct decision. There were many who gave their voice with pride and with an extra beating heart. Today, we must finally get to the finish line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1347	The law has been passed on by a very large number of people today. I'm happy to take part in this historic decision. I just think that we heterophile are unable to take on board how much this means to the lesbians and gays, who experience that the big community finally adopts a law that equates their lives with a heterophilic life. The Soria Moria Declaration states that the representatives of the Central Party have been set free in this matter. Most of it was said in the Odelstningsverzeichnung, but since the debate also goes here in Lagting, I want to elaborate my position. As I see it, the main purpose of this law is to secure one legal framework that equates heterophilic and homophilic living. Since marriage is a legal framework that many people choose for their commitment to life, it will give homosexuals the opportunity to marry in my opinion to strengthen marriage as an institution. Several people here in the hall disagree with me in that position and refer to marriage as it has traditionally been. I hope the time has come for us to say here today that society now recognizes that gay and heterophilic living is equally valuable, that two people who want to enter into the commitment of marriage are given the opportunity to do so independently of lying. What has been the most difficult point in law for many people is the point of giving lesbians the possibility of assisted conception. When I support this proposal, it is because I support the use of assisted fertilization for heterophilic couples. And as a consequence of opening up marriages between two of the same sex and thus giving these equal rights to heterophilic couples, there is also an opportunity for lesbian couples to be assessed for assisted conception. The best interests of children are brought forward by both opponents and supporters of the law in order to justify the individual’s views. I believe that a state's task is to ensure that as many children as possible can have good and stable frameworks around their growth. If one believes that marriage is the most stable framework around a life, it follows that extending marriage to like-minded couples provides the best framework for as many children as possible. To the opponents' fears that these children will grow up with parents of the same sex, it is to say that all parents, regardless of their situation in life and orientation, have a responsibility for their children experiencing positive role models of both sexes. The right to be assessed is, unfortunately, a concept that has disappeared a little in the debate. On the opponents, it seems that if this law is passed, all homosexuals will adopt, and all lesbians will stand in line outside the nearest fertility clinic. What this law really is about is giving gay people the right to be assessed on the same line with heterophilic couples, that is, to make care about the crucial criterion. It says that the wit is evenly distributed. I am convinced that this also applies to care, and I will claim that both wit and care are awarded regardless of sex and orientation. Today is historic in many ways. There's been a long way here, both for society, for the parties, and not least for all of us sitting in the layroom here today. For me, it has been essential to ensure that children of lesbians and gays are given legal rights, that all couples can enter into the commitment of marriage, and that care is the decisive criterion in the question of children. It must undoubtedly be for the benefit of the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1364	A common marriage law for heterophilic and gay couples has triggered a broad commitment across the country, at both good and bad. The angle of incidence from these two sides has been completely different - fundamentally different. The opponents of a new marriage law have now for a long time played on the fear of what such a change will mean for individuals, for society, and for children and families. The representative, Ola T. Lånk, was in the middle of desperate opponents. Yes, what is the despair of such a change of laws? Is there any doubt that children should have the same rights and that lesbians and homosexuals should have the same rights as us who are heterophiles in a new marriage law? Nothing has pleased me more than to see the joy of all those who have fought and stood on to get this law in place, showed when this decision was taken at Odelstinget on 11 June. 11 June and 17 June will forever be important brand days in Norwegian history for all those who have been on for many years in order to live their lives according to their wishes and needs. The representative Schmidt from the Progress Party says that we now have to find out what we are feeling, what we are thinking. Shall we look for prejudices, search for fear? Or shall we see opportunities, see hope for those who have stood up for their needs, see the injustice that they have experienced for many years? We've always been through prejudice debates, for example. related to immigration, etc. But that's not what we're going to look for. We're going to look for hope, look for opportunities to give people the same rights that everyone else takes for granted. That's what this is about. It's not about jus. It's about how we're going to come up with a new law that makes sense for people to live by. We're going to push and fight prejudices. Rather, we should look for opportunities for a good life. Instead of openly arguing against equal rights for homosexuals and lesbians, many opponents are trying to use this debate so that not everyone can say what they want - participate in a democratic process. I think many representatives in the position have described it in a good way. This is not primarily about jus. It's about humanity in important things and for many people's lives. That's how the opponents of the new marriage law try to get away from this debate on the core of what we're talking about. Then it amazes me that many parties who hold high as their taboo this with closeness, do not spend more time on the questions related to this matter. I think many of the opponents haven't spent time working with their values, their views. They're more concerned not to give gay and lesbian the same opportunities that others have. The new marriage law will be a major step forward, in line with the implementation of the equality law, etc. I am proud to be a resident of a country with a democracy like that of Norway, which promotes closeness, equality, humanity and solidarity with all those who have stood up for greater justice in our society in this matter. Our main task is to provide children and young people with a stable family life, regardless of whether their parents are gay or heterophobic. The working party believes it is positive that homosexuals and lesbians are given the opportunity to commit themselves through marriage. Many have asked if the Labour Party has now changed its view of the Partnership Act when they say yes. Change in vision? A society isn't static. Between 1993 and 2008, there is a lot of water in the sea. The road will be there as we go, it will be there. So the community has changed, and we have to take that in all ways. Norway's constitution was at the time of its adoption, one of the most modern constitutions in Europe, one of the most liberal and democratic. But that basic law could not be static either. We need to change the law in relation to social development. Today we have an even more modern democracy. We have an active democracy. And as the representative Jagland said, standards are changing over time. That's how things happen over time. Then it is also important that the laws are amended in line with the current situation. This law has an important task. It is equalising differences between minorities and the majority in society. That is why I want to vote in favour of a common marriage law. I want to vote in favour of all lesbian couples being given the same opportunity for assisted fertilization and having the same opportunities as heterophiles.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1383	The greatest of all is love! That is my guide to voting today. Many in the pulpit today have pointed out that we have received numerous requests for this law. There have been many requests for and many courages, and there have been a few very few who have been directly repugnant. I take a great distance from the way some people have pulled this debate down. Some have claimed to weaken marriage as an institution. But I don't think heterofiles stop marrying just because gay people get the same right. Both those who are for, and those who are against the law, use the children as arguments. The Children’s Ombudsman is clear in his recommendation. The Children’s Ombudsman supports the proposal on all points, both that homophiles should be considered as adoptive parents and that lesbians should have access to assisted fertilisation. Some have claimed in the debate that we take away a father from the children. Many thousand children today grow up with two mothers and without a father. No, we in the Workers' Party make sure that children of homosexuals have the same rights as other children. Stable adoption, which is the option of the co-mother scheme, may take up to two years. These children now have two legal parents, in line with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. It's wrong that the UN Children's Convention says you have the right to one mother and one father. It's about parents and caregivers, and it's gender neutral. We also ensure that the child is given an inheritance to his or her mother. We make sure that co-mother is given the right to maternity leave and parental leave, as the child gets to know both his or her parents. But not least, we clearly say that the love they receive from their parents is independent of the sex of their parents. One of the proposals we are going to vote on is that gay people should also be considered for adoption. It is a rather long and laborious process, in which you are carefully assessed as a caregiver. If a single woman wants to adopt, she will be judged up and down in mind. But if she had had a female girlfriend, she would automatically have been denied--independent of her care ability. It's discrimination. We will remove that discrimination. It's not a human right to have children, but it's a human right not automatically to be denied on the basis of its orientation. Lesbian couples now also have access to assisted conception, in line with heterophilic couples. Norwegian legislation guarantees children the right to know their origins, which many have argued in the debate, because we do not have a system of anonymous sperm donors in Norway. Thus, most foreign clinics used by Norwegian girls - both lesbian and single - and by heterophilic couples today offer assisted fertilization with anonymous sperm donors. Several Norwegian children are granted this law their right to know their origins - by facilitating assisted fertilisation domestically, without an anonymous sperm donor. Sami environments have many taboos. Unfortunately, homophobia is very much alive in many Sami environments. Many of my friends standing up north move south to Oslo after a short time. They don't feel like they're accepted at home. They don't feel that they can be themselves, and they feel that people look nice at them. The whole thing has been involved in the debate on discrimination against homosexuals. In particular, the last three years have repeatedly been debated by the Spokesman of the United Nations. It has shifted the debate into public space, and I applaud that. In 2001, the film ‘Lesbisk i Kautokeino’ appeared and made a strong deal with the prejudiced attitudes in Sami environments. The documentary shows Lesbian Marit Buljo, who moved from the village because of the prejudices, and is a strong description that she is moving back with her partner and will oppose these attitudes. Her own mother refuses to meet her daughter's roommate. The couple's wish is to marry in the Kautokeino Church. I hope the Creation today tells them that it will not be in the law, and that we will be able to change the attitudes of Kautokeino. Well, changes in attitude take time. Legislation shifts attitudes. Already in 1954 the Ministry of Justice proposed to decriminalise homophilis. The bishops of the country then stated: ‘We are faced with a danger of world dimensions. It is a well-known fact that homosexuality has grown to a horrific extent in many countries. ‘... Almost 30 years later, in 1972, homophili was finally removed from the penal code. Only ten years later, in 1982, homophilia was removed as a disease diagnosis. The Partnership Act came in 1993, and now 15 years later we can set a final sentence for discrimination through the law. The Christian People's Party voted against all these changes, including the 1993 Partnership Act. They have pointed out in the debate that they have changed their mind since then, and they are today under the Partnership Act. It shows that it is right to use the law to change attitudes! Today we take the last settlement in a 54-year-old fight against discrimination through legislation. Let us eliminate discrimination against homosexuals in full. Let the decision today be a declaration of love to love. Let's tell the whole country that all love is just as much worth. Let's say that it's not okay to treat homofile differently. Let's give children of lesbians and gays the same rights as other kids. The greatest of all is love!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1428	As young nurse students in the 1970s, we discovered that several of the female nurses lived together. However, we were very aware of who was a couple, and who lived with a friend in order to share the bout poisons with someone. However, there was never any big point made of that two of the same sex were couples, only tacitly accepted that this was the case. This was at the time § 213 of the penal code was removed - i.e. in 1972 - and we knew to remain silent about what we thought was not related to anyone other than those who lived with his girlfriend. According to § 213, homosexual practices were criminal, i.e. It was for gay men. However, homophobic and lesbian practices were equally taboo, and something was said to be quiet. But for a young nurse in the 1970s, it was more about biology and love than about crime. It has shaped my relationship with homosexuals and lesbians all my adult life. The prejudices have come to light, even though what is different may seem difficult to understand and accept. I have experienced people I am happy in, striving to accept that they are gay or lesbian. It has been colleagues, friends, and also close to family. I have seen how they have struggled to admit to themselves that this is how it is, and also seen how difficult it has been to stand up and tell the outside world about how it is. I have seen the uncertainty of a daughter who has spent a lot of time acknowledging that she is a lesbian. She has never doubted the support of the family, but feared enough the responses of society to the life she wanted to live. Therefore today is a great day--a day when all those I know, and know, can finally experience that they are accepted as equivalent people, equivalent to us who are heterophilic. It is remarkable that someone may have a different attitude than that this is the only one true, but I accept that there are some who still need more time before they see that we are all first of all human, and not heterophilic or homophilic -- people who all want to show their love to a partner and create a safe framework for themselves and their families. During Odelstinget's meeting last week, the government council quoted Anniken Huitfeldt - who also the representative Holmberg from Right referred to - Spain's prime minister, who defended the country's new common marriage law in this way: A decent society does not humble its citizens. A decent society treats its citizens with respect. For me, that's exactly what this is all about. It's about respecting all people and giving them the opportunity to live a good life. For very many of us a good life is characterized by family life with children. It's a great pleasure and a privilege to be a parent. I therefore wholeheartedly support that lesbian couples should have equal rights to assisted conception as heterophilic couples. The fact that such treatment is now being opened up here in Norway makes it easier and safer for lesbian couples to have children. It also allows the child to know who is the biological danger after age 18, if the child wants it. For many, this is precisely important, and we have to respect that. But when many people make a big point that everyone needs to know who is one's biological origin, the new issues arise. Many people live in uncertainty about their biological origins. If we were to think about it in any context, it would be impossible, for example. to accept foreign adoption. The most important thing we can do as a society is to create secure frameworks around all types of families, and leave the care of parents crucial both in assessing assisted conception and adoption. I have also registered that the law's opponents have feared the possibilities of private schools to teach different views about marriage and families. Both curriculums and the private school law are established here. All schools, private or public, shall teach different forms of life and variations in sexual orientation. And there is ‘the ability to carry out the training in accordance with their vision and to say over-interpretation, as long as it is informed of other views and Norwegian legislation in the field’. That opponents of gay marriage should therefore feel marginalized and discriminated against, I seem to put myself in a victim role they don't have to assume. During the process of the new marriage law, I have received, like many others, text messages and e-mails from action groups and individuals. It has not been just pleasant enquiries. I have read that we have been exposed to homolobbyists, that the matter is too poorly investigated, and that it has gone too fast. I have not been exposed to lobbyists other than those who are against the new marriage law, and I cannot see that it has either happened too quickly, or that the matter is poorly resolved. State Council Huitfeldt's statement about the process of legal work is therefore also reassuring in this way. We've spent too much time accepting gay and lesbian life. We've spent too much time on prejudices and on putting obstacles in the way that the people involved will live a normal and ordinary life - a life of security for the homes they build, and security for the kids who live with parents of the same sex. That is why today is a day of happiness. All those who have fought for decades deserve a great thank you for never giving up. I welcome the new marriage law, the right to assisted conception and the right for lesbians and gays to be judged for adoption.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1459	A common marriage law that equates gay and heterophilic is a victory for love. Essentially, this is what it's all about when we decide today that two people who love each other and want to live together will get married -- there should be no difference in living in a heterophilic or gay couple relationship. Furthermore, the desire to establish a family is quite universal. We give lesbian and gay couples the opportunity to do this in order, and we ensure that the children who grow up with lesbian and gay parents are protected in the law and have the same rights as other children. And it was just supposed to be missing. When we give the donor children of lesbians the same rights as the donor children of heterofiles, that's how we avoid discrimination. The same applies to adoption. That a woman who is lonely should be able to be considered a adoptive mother, but should not be suitable as a caregiver on the day she moves with the one she loves, who is then a woman, I am glad that we are changing today. The Spanish Prime Minister has been referred to several times. He indicated that he would not humiliate his inhabitants, and that they would be assimilated. I am glad that today in Norway we stop humiliating our inhabitants by distinguishing between the A- and B-layers of love - yes, because as our law has existed today, I cannot understand it differently. The Partnership Act was important 15 years ago, but it is time that society now sees that there is no difference between heterofil and homofil love. The signal we are now sending out with this law to young lesbians or gays -- who think they have something to be ashamed of -- is important, because we know that lesbians and gays are overrepresented in suicide statistics. Giving more opportunities to participate in marriage as an institution will be strengthening it. Marriage is based on mutual love and respect - fine that more people get to share in it. Marriage law is a marriage law -- in marriage, in divorce, in death and in relation to children. Community marriage law will give legal regulation for both heterophilic and gay couples -- same rights regardless of sexual orientation. We are all people who want for our lives. In the process until Creation today - until today early - we have received e-mails and letters that have expressed a different attitude than the one I have. Today, I am pleased that we are adopting a law that is normative. I believe that the new generations - those who come after us - and the children have a different view of this than we have in recent years. My two oldest children of eight and eleven years have no problem understanding that there are different ways of living together today, whether it's mother and mother, mother and father, or how the family is organized. My eight-year-old son has a classmate who has a mother and father, and my father has a new male girlfriend. It's okay. Even though my son sometimes calls it "hemo," he at least agrees that it's a good way to have a family. Society is developing. I think we are ready to continue the decisions that Odelstinget has taken and that the Labour Party voted in favour of. As has been said earlier from this pulpit: the greatest of all is love.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1476	Last Wednesday was a good day for the fight for equality and against discrimination. Another step was taken for equality in Norway, and the joy was great among many when Odelstinget made its decision. Our task in Creation is to stamp under - with hopefully the same result. When we then agree with the legal text, it is natural that we also discuss what the law involves, and why we do what we do. The process has been long - perhaps too long, many believe. In Westfold, the Workers' Party has been a champion of gay rights for many, many years. We have always been out early in Westfold, both in terms of partnership law and in terms of checking out the gay living conditions. We've had untrue people who have wanted to set the agenda and change society, and who have seen the injustice of the system that has been. I'm proud of that, both with the light on and with the light off. Already at the 1998 annual meeting, the AUF proposed that homosexuals should be allowed to adopt. It created a great debate at the time, and was not adopted. Fortunately, time has matured. It shows that time is working for changes in the prejudices we have in society and that things are getting better. Many have mentioned the countless e-mails and text messages that last both night and day, and letters of eternal condemnation and loss that we have received. It shows me that not everyone sees this as an equality struggle or a fight for justice and equality. No, it's considered a threat to the established. The massive shooting from the opponents strengthens my belief that we are on the right path--for the best in life is, as mentioned, the love of another human being. It shall not be connected with shame or condemnation. The best thing in life must be for everyone no matter how legging. Who has the right to judge? The ability to establish and have marriage as a framework around love should be able to escape our next, if we believe marriage is the best form of life for ourselves. One thing that is right for me, should also be available to the gay and lesbians. But loving one's next and having respect and humility, looking for the temptations to judge to apply only if you're in the approved pattern. We meet that we ignore the children and don't think the best of the children. I think that is completely wrong. It is precisely the best thing for our children that we aim to have the status of co-mother and legal rights, such as inheritance and rights in the event of a breakup of life. And then the argument comes: why not stick to the stebarn adoption? Well, it was a step in the right direction, but it's a long process. It may take up to two years, and in the meantime both child and co-mother are in a grey zone. We want to secure the legal rights around the children, just for the benefit of the children. As I know, there is no research that children who have grown up in parents of the same sex have better or worse than other children. History is shaped bit by bit. From the battle for the law of decriminalisation, which was passed in 1972 with great resistance from the Christian People's Party, to the law of partnership, which is now suddenly the alternative for the opponents, but which was also condemned by them in 1993. I don't think any of these laws have destroyed for marriage as a form of companionship. I have great respect for the fact that people think differently about the matter than what we in the majority do here today. However, it also makes it possible for respect to be called back. Respect must be shown for those who want to formalize life, for those who want to have children together, and who want to secure the children and themselves a good framework. We know that we're breaking a tradition and a lot of traditional perceptions. But as a decent society, we treat our citizens with respect, and as politicians, it is our responsibility to push society forward and forward for the benefit of everyone. With this decision today, we make everyday life better for many. With this we show that the love of the homosexuals is as valuable as the love of the heterophilics. We accept, and we give room for diversity. When the head of my home paper, the East Post, last Thursday, wrote that with what we are doing, prejudices disappear - and refers to the legal framework that marriage is, and that this is no religious creed - the leader puts this into perspective and puts the debate where it should lie. I think a lot of people mean like him. Today we are involved in making Norway an even more equal society. We'll see that over the years it's going to be a matter of course, just people are waiting for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1499	Kim Friele, a woman who has fought many fights against discrimination against women and men who are gay or lesbian, attended a national government meeting in the Labour Party earlier this year. She gave a speech and could tell about a long and--when one looks back at it--to some extent tragicomic history of the many small steps for equivalency that she had been with and fought through. For example, she told me. that, as a lesbian woman, she felt discriminated against by the fact that, in Paragraph 213 of the Penal Code at that time, only homosexual men were criminalized. Women were not mentioned. When the paragraph was designed, it was potentially unmistakable that even women could fall in love with one of the same sex. It was not until 1972 that this paragraph was removed from the penal code, and homosexuality was decriminalised. It's not long ago. Forces that are currently fighting against the marriage law we are about to adopt have also fought against all the small steps that have been taken throughout history, for equality and against discrimination against people. It shows not least all enquiries I have received on this matter. It is important that all views are expressed. However, I react to some of these recordings being based on so-called research. The last recording I got yesterday, and it told me that I didn't have to vote for assisted conception for lesbian couples, because it turns out, from a survey conducted by NOVA, that lesbian women drink themselves drunk every weekend, or more often-- 12 times more than among heterophilic women. I only react negatively to this, and cannot take it seriously. I think it's sad. Such recordings testify to people’s prejudices and are not factual information, as they appear to be produced as. I have worked in several companies where we have discussed the value base of the business. Such discussions are important for those who work there, because they want to work in a business with a value base they can identify with and be proud of-- and everyone usually participates with great commitment. When people say what values they want to be characterised by, the activity highlights most values such as tolerance, openness and inclusion. Such values also largely characterise Norwegian society. Most of us would like it to be like this, and invoke such a value base. I see this case, like the Act on the Prohibition of Discrimination on the grounds of disability that we adopted earlier today, as important measures in line with the values on which we build our society, and on which we want our society to be influenced, namely transparency, equivalency, tolerance and inclusion. These laws are about giving all our citizens equal rights and treating them with respect. I'm proud to agree to adopt this today. So briefly back to Kim Friele, who I started talking about. She admitted that she thought it was an April joke when the Party Secretary, Martin Kolberg, called and told me what was going to happen. But she also said that she was very touched and proud. She drew out many former and present working party politicians with whom she had cooperated to get to where we are today. I'm proud of that, too. Then she said that it was 40 years since she shocked her family to tell them that she had voted for the Workers' Party. Then her father exclaimed that it was far worse than that she was homosexual--there went the border! So prejudice can give itself the strangest results.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1517	The layering today deals with a law that has engaged us and that engages many people. I think it is great that people are engaged, but many of the e-mails and text messages that I have also signed could have been taken away. What happened on June 11th in the morning when we came to work was that we were met by demonstrators who came with posters and said that those who were going to go in for this law were criminals. In a democratic society, I think it's a shame to go that far. I only received text messages and e-mails from the opponents. Article 2 of the Children's Convention shall prevent discrimination against children. With the proposal for a new common marriage law, children with similar parents from birth will have the same rights and legal framework as other children. It's important. I think that's obvious. The child is given the right to inherit and both parents are given parental responsibility and entertainment obligations to the child. Research has shown that it is important for these children that their family relationships are respected. Children in same-sex families are a theme on which research is also available. Research has shown that for these children, as for other children, the quality of the relationship between children and parents is crucial. The most important thing for all children is love and care. Both trailers and opponents of the law use the children as arguments. The primary independent figure for children in Norway is the Children's Ombudsman. The Children's Ombudsman is, as I have seen it, very clear and recommends the proposal at all points, both that gays should be considered adoptive parents, and that lesbians should have access to assisted conception. On the same line with heterofile pairs there are many gay couples who now get that opportunity. We don't need an investigation to establish that gay and lesbian are just as good people. We don't need an investigation to establish that everyone -- and I mean everyone -- children should have the same rights, regardless of their parents' orientation. If someone needs to figure that out, it has to be because they are in doubt about whether all children are born equally -- and that's a question that we can never ask with respect for ourselves. Today, we are taking another step towards the society that the entire population of Norway deserves, the society we dream about and strive for every day - a society free from discrimination, a society where diversity flourishes and love is greatest and celebrated. So I hope that when we go out of the laying room today, this is a historic day -- that both June 11th and June 17th become days that we can all remember. That is why I want to vote in favour of the joint marriage law.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1536	Many have said that this is a historic day. Whether it is a historic day or not, only the future will show, but there is no doubt that the issue we are discussing today is an important one. It's an important thing, which makes a lot of sense, both on the one hand and on the other, in the debate. I think it's good that you have commitment. Then I understand that some people feel that some of the comments and opinions that have been made have not been pleasant. Someone might say that sometimes they've been a little bit hurt, and that's obviously stupid. It's important to show each other respect and tolerance. There are many who have been concerned with respect and tolerance here in the hall. When I say that, I think about texts and a lot of other things -- of course also what has come from outside this house. I feel that today's debate -- we're well about to approach a landing on the debate -- shows that you initially have a fairly high level of respect for each other and show great tolerance. It is important that we can manage to discuss at a factual level and deal with each other with great respect, even if we disagree and have different starting points for what we believe in the matter. I want to come back to the discussion and the debate that has been on whether or not the matter has been thoroughly sufficiently investigated. There has been a lot of discussion about consultation, and there are many who have responded and believe that there is too little opportunity to record both in terms of the legislative proposal and in terms of the hearing out. When we register what the majority has chosen to land on, it is likely that approx. nine out of ten of all hearing bodies that have responded have actually been negative to the changes that the Government is now making. When someone says that those who disagree with the changes don't accept that all people are equivalent, I just want to say, I accept all, and believe that we are equivalent. Whether you're heterophilic, gay, or lesbian, all people are equally worth -- regardless of sexual orientation. That's what I think it's important to get out of the debate, and I've recorded that some representatives have thought that someone might have had a different attitude and not accepted people who have a different sexual orientation. At least I, as one of those who choose to vote against, have a great need to come forward: I respect all people, and all people are equivalent. To Marianne Marthinsen, who says that someone fights against gay love: I don't feel that any of those who have had the same point of view as me have argued that one is against the gay love, and against that homosexual having his love. Of course you don't, but you disagree with your marriage. You have a partnership law today, which is about gay and lesbian, and you have a marriage law, which is about heterophilic. Of course, no one is against people being allowed to love each other. So equal rights for gay and heterophilic. There's a lot of equivalence today. There are some small shades of which there is discussion, especially in the case of marriage. My reason for choosing to vote as I do today -- I vote in line with the view of the Advancement Party -- is, of course, the child peace I have with me, and that I actually have two children myself. I have come to realize that this is a good and safe environment for my children. These are my reasons why I choose to vote as I do in this case. But of course I also respect all those in this room who choose to vote something else. I think it's a little sad that there's going to be such a kind of debate, that you don't respect other people in the light of the opinions and attitudes they base on. We have still not received any better arguments during the debate today, nor in the debate that I followed in Odelstinget, which changes my view, that for me still mother and father are the best. For the time being, there are no arguments in research and the kind of things that make me choose to go in for another position. So I want to put things a little bit into perspective. There's been a lot of discussion about Dad, about getting his father's role in. It's a little bit special. We now have a government that is very concerned that every child who goes to school is going to get an apple, but the right to father is not necessarily so that everyone wants to include it in the proposal for a change that lies here. I have to bring some of them that I think might have gone to a bit-- otherwise I think so far that the debate has been okay. I note that the representative, Engstad, is very far from the level at which the debate has been brought down, which is a low level. I don't think it's putting it into a good perspective when the rest of her post was essentially about love, that it's one of the biggest things you can have. Then it becomes a little special that you add up to a debate where you take a great deal of distance from fellow debaters. I think it is good that we have a proper, thorough debate on this. I also record that there are twelve workers' party representatives who have now spoken. It may be that the three others who have not had the word are opposed, but have not been allowed to believe anything about this. I know that in Odelstinget there were some representatives who had actually intended to vote against, who did not participate in the voting. It may be that there are so many who have had the word. I think it has been a good, thorough debate. So it's going to be exciting to see what the result is. For the Progress Party, I believe that at least we have not received any new arguments to vote against the proposal submitted by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1569	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1572	I'm not going to characterize the Lamentations debate, but just correct it on one point. There are 14 speakers from the Labour Party who have spoken for 10 minutes each. I've noticed that it's repeated almost to the boring in the debate that this is the end of history -- at least in Norway, maybe in the world. These decisions have put an end to all discrimination based on sex. I don't doubt for a moment that all those who have said it are in good faith, but they're taking thunderous mistakes. At best you make the end of 50 pst. of discrimination. It's not 100 pst. The introduction of an eye-catching and unjustified difference in the framework of Norwegian law around gender equality between two male and two female persons. And with the concept of discrimination used in this debate, it is a rather dramatic form of discrimination. The only form of justification given by the Government to propose 50 pst. Discrimination is that if you were to propose to remove 100 pst., you would have to propose to amend the Biotechnology Act. Yes, President, you had to do that quite correctly! In this way, however, the proposal that has been made is in exactly the same position as the one that has not been proposed. Why is it okay to change the biotechnology law at one point, but an insurmountable obstacle to change it at the other point? I still have the pleasure of hearing one understandable argument as the reason for that. Then I record that the arguments against the partnership law and the desauvuration of it and the idealisation of the marriage law almost without exception apply to matters where the two laws are dot-like. The Partnership Act also presupposes giving each other a promise. It's going on in public. It is an obligatory contract, which is exactly as predictable or just as unpredictable as marriage. There's something in the mind here that just isn't hanging out. I have to remind you that when the Partnership Act was passed in 1993, a majority was given because those who promoted the law were assured that it was the end station. They said, "It's never going to go further and make the same legislation for those situations where there's a significant difference, that's all that has to be ordered with reproduction." That is why the law was passed. Today they say without blushing that it was never meant to be serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1584	The next speaker is Vidar Bjørnstad. As far as the President can see, the representative Bjørnstad has not spoken earlier. He has a speaking time of up to 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1587	I will not promise to extend the debate by spending 10 minutes, but I was challenged by the representative Hoksrud to declare myself fully representing the Workers' Party. I am among those who have not spoken, but fully support the fact that homosexuals and heterophiles should have equal rights to marriage, that children of gay marriage should be guaranteed legal rights from the outset, and that homosexuals should also be able to be assessed as adoptive parents. I really thought that there has been a good enough representation from the Workers' Party to justify our position, and that not everyone necessarily had to know his point of view. From my point of view in the Workers' Party, based on the value of equality, justice and solidarity, my position on this matter has been quite natural. It is to include in the community minorities who until now have not had the rights of the majority. I fully agree with the representative from Hoksrud about respecting everyone's position on this matter. But when Hoksrud compares the red-green attitude to apples in school with the right of homosexuals to have the same rights as heterophiles, and accuses us of not exercising the right to father, it represents a low degree. I think this is a historic moment to secure the rights and include even more of the minorities in the rights of the community and the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1596	The representative Hoksrud preached respect for other people's views, that we are all equivalent. It's touchingly beautiful. The more incredible it is when the representative goes on to justify his no to the law that he himself has a child and has learned that mother and father are the best and safest framework for his child. I don't know anything about Hoksrud's abilities as a father, fortunately. He's probably an excellent father. But his rationale is the very picture of what I think we have to fight, namely a perception that me and my family form and my frame around my children are the normal and the best, and that others have to live the same way. Marriage law is a recognition of gay society as equivalent to heterophilic. It's a powerful signal to the children who grow up in single-minded families, that they and their family form are equally worth it. Then I haven't accused anyone of fighting homophilic love, even though there are probably those who have done the same. I haven't heard of that in this room. I just point out that some are fighting against an equality of gay love life with that heterophilic one. At that point, I have my words in full. I believe that Hoksrud's contributions proved their worth.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1605	The representative's salary and others before him have asked why we discriminate against homosexuals by not offering egg donation and possible use of surrogate mother. It is a completely faulty problem and a logic that is not attached to the handle. We have not introduced methods for egg donation and surrogacy for anyone in Norway. So it's a prohibition that applies to everyone. Thus, it cannot be said that there is discrimination against gay men, even of heterophilic couples where the woman does not have viable eggs or does not have a uterus. She does not have the opportunity to use such a method because it has not been introduced on a general basis. On the other hand, we have said that we want lesbians to have the opportunity to perform assisted fertilisation, because there is a law in Norway for heterophilic couples, and then we extend the possibility of applying also to lesbian couples. So it's a law we've introduced in Norway. We want it to apply to everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1612	Most people now hope that the debate will come to an end, and that most of the arguments will come to an end. It'll be like there's someone who provokes, an easy one will take the word again, so I'll try not to be long. When it comes to surrogate mothers, one of the arguments used to open up assisted fertilization in Norway is that many travel abroad. In fact, there are also some men who travel abroad to get surrogate mother. Although it is not allowed to use surrogacy in Norway neither for heterofiles nor gay couples, this problem is mentioned in the proposition: a selection looks at the legal challenges associated with it. In the next round there will be a debate about that because it is gay who travels abroad, we also need to secure the legal courts in Norway. It will then easily open up to new discussions and debates around this. In the end, I want to say something about it with discrimination, because very many people claim that it is discriminatory not to go for a new marriage law. But the Government's own proposition is on page 22, second column: ‘The Ministry has concluded, in accordance with the consultation note, that under the conventions in force, it is not obliged to open the marriage to like-minded couples, but that there is now a strong desire to equalise the couple’s lives. ‘... There's a very big difference between having a desire to equalise and saying that it's not equal, it's discriminatory. The proposition itself does not say that it is discriminatory, but much is said in the debate. I would say that preserving today's marriage law is not discriminatory. We shall fight against discrimination against homosexuals and lesbians - and there is also a Christian People's Party. Some people want to present it as if we haven't done anything, and it's wrong. I hope that we will be able to continue doing something about this together.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1626	No pay has had the word twice and gets the word for a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1629	Just a little answer to the representative Knutsen. Well, I think it's actually related, because it has already emerged in the public debate that there are like-minded couples of male sex who feel discriminated against. After the definition of discrimination that is consistently used here, that feeling is actually well-founded, because they are discriminated against. Now, probably the representative Knutsen and I agree, that it's not right to take that step, but my point was just that those who think this is the end station -- that's what I'm taking the chance to claim without being either of the great or the smaller prophets -- are going to take thunderous mistakes. Already before the ink from His Majesty's fountain pen is dry on the signature, there will be the demand to be in full swing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1636	It was tempting to take the floor because, throughout the debate, Inge Wohnung has laid a very static foundation for society and social development. He's taken from a timeline and said it represents universal, eternal values, and that's the society we're dealing with here and now. I do not agree with that. I think that Inge Wohnning is right when he says that this is not going to be the end station, because society is still going to evolve even in time to come. There's going to be new matches, and there's going to be new questions, which deserve new answers. We are part of the dynamic development, and the decision we make here today is part of a dynamic social process. I think that's one of the main points that we have to take over. I just felt the need to be told.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1643	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see page below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1651	We're going to vote on the matter. The representative Åse M. Schmidt has put forward a proposal for comments on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party. The President will propose to vote separately for each Roman numeral in relation to Roman numerals I to IV. The Roman numerals V-XII will be dabbled together. - It's considered biphasic. It is only right that you should vote for it in the proposal of the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party: ‘The decision of the nodule is not accepted. Lactation Note: ‘It is recommended that Odelstinget refer the draft law to Law No 4 July 2001. 47 about marriage. ‘ ’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1674	The proposal by the Progressive Party and the Christian People's Party refers to II: ‘The decision of the nodule is not accepted. Lactation Note: 'It is recommended that Odelstinget refer the draft law to Law No 8 April 1981. 7 about children and parents. ‘ ’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1691	It is then voted on III in the proposal of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party: ‘The decision of the nodule is not accepted. Lactation Note: 'It is recommended that Odelstinget refer the draft law to Law No 28 February 1986. 8 on adoption. ‘ ’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1708	It is then voted on IV in the proposal of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party: ‘The decision of the nodule is not accepted. Lactation Note: ‘It is recommended that Odelstinget should refer the draft law to Law No 5 December 2003. 100 on the human medical use of biotechnology, etc. ‘ ’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1725	The proposal by the Progressive Party and the Christian People's Party refers to V-XII: ‘The decision of the nodule is not accepted. Lactation Note: ‘It is recommended that Odelstingen should refer to the legislative proposals under V-XII. ‘ ’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1742	The Odelsting's decision is thus endorsed by the Laging, and the law will be to send the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1756	No one has asked for the floor. The Odelsting's decision is thus endorsed by the Laging, and the law will be to send the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1772	No one has asked for the floor. The Odelsting's decision is thus endorsed by the Laging, and the law will be to send the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1788	No one has asked for the floor. The Odelsting's decision is thus endorsed by the Laging, and the law will be to send the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1804	No one has asked for the floor. The Odelsting's decision is thus endorsed by the Laging, and the law will be to send the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1820	No one has asked for the floor. The Odelsting's decision is thus endorsed by the Laging, and the law will be to send the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1837	No one has asked for the floor. The Odelsting's decision is thus endorsed by the Laging, and the law will be to send the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1853	No one has asked for the floor. The Odelsting's decision is thus endorsed by the Laging, and the law will be to send the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1869	No one has asked for the floor. The Odelsting's decision is thus endorsed by the Laging, and the law will be to send the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1885	No one has asked for the floor. The Odelsting's decision is thus endorsed by the Laging, and the law will be to send the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1901	It could, at least from the Christian People's Party, also be a good basis for raising a debate on this law. We are not going to do that in this round, and we are not going to re-examine proposals. I just wanted to add some comments to the new law, which is essentially about the new RLE subject. What I want is actually to express a concern based on what I feel that many teachers feel. They find it increasingly difficult to practice the law and teach in this subject. It is Christianity that remains the religious affiliation of most in Norway. However, it seems that the requirement for qualitative equal treatment of different life views and discussion of quantitative distribution of different religions creates uncertainty in those to be disseminated. I'm not going to go into it any more, but I sincerely hope, although I'm very much in doubt if it's going to happen, that the new RLE subject is set up so that it becomes a real presentation also of Christianity and the Christian cultural heritage, and that emphasis is placed on that this is the religion and tradition of most of the Nordics. I want to say it's important -- yeah, it's fundamental -- that students learn enough to feel at home in their own cultural background. It is worrying to discover that many young people today seem to learn more about religions than about Christianity. What this is due to - whether there is ineffectiveness in curricula, the uncertainty of teachers about a subject that is constantly being criticized and debated, or that students do not have the background enough to absorb the topic - is not good to say. There are probably several factors. But at least that is a situation that we as a national Parliament should also take seriously in the coming days. It must also be made clear in the organisation that subjects and curricula should provide teachers with safety, good material and a commitment to a sound introduction into the profession. Because of my background, I am associated with a number of priests in the Norwegian Church and have spoken to the firm's pastors who feel that their confirmations have approximated no knowledge of Christianity. But then it turns out that they actually know a lot more about many other religions. A firm teacher I know uses to take the confirmations into a mosque. I thought that was positive. There, however, he was surprised to learn that the confirmation companies could answer very well for themselves questions about Islam. They could believe Islam: There is no god but Allah, and Muhammad is his messenger. They knew well what the five pillars of Islam are: the creed, the prayer, the fasting, the pilgrimage and the charity. There's nothing to say about it, it's also in line with the law. But when they saw later, in the hour after, the most elementary questions about Christianity were asked, about the most elementary things in what we like to call catechism, they were, on the other hand, guilty of answering. When the priest asked the confirmations what this could come from, the answer was: it's not our fault, we've learned a lot more about the other religions than about Christianity. Now it's going to be said that I don't know how representative this is. This is actually more of a witness. But I don't think it's so unrepresentative. My point is that if we don't give young people who belong in our Christian tradition, a ballast in relation to their own culture and faith, they're badly rusted up to meet other cultures. This can create uncertainty about your own identity and give little to resist in discussions about values. How can they stand up for values they don't know? How can they enter into a real dialogue on values if they lack knowledge of their own inheritance? If the Constitution § 2 in the future will read «The basis of value remains our Christian and humanistic heritage. This Constitution shall ensure democracy, the rule of law and human rights ', and this paragraph shall have meaning, must have in-depth knowledge of it by those who grow up in that inheritance. They have both the right and the right to sound teaching in Christianity. What you know best and feel most familiar with is also what you think is right. If we don't give the growing family good knowledge of our Christian and humanistic heritage, they may choose traditions they don't know the consequences of. And if the Storting doesn't give teachers work tools for teaching, it can in its ultimate consequence lead to Norwegian school preparing the basis for traditions that are alien to us. It can't be meant to be, and that's why we have to take care of a subject that takes care of both our own values and the ability to know the beliefs and thoughts of others.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1914	When the representative Lånke deals with the matter the way he does, I almost think I have to explain something to the majority on the matter, because it is not that it is no longer to be taught in Christianity in the Norwegian school. However, the entire Committee points out in its comments that the European Court of Human Rights judgment states that it is problematic to give a religion qualitative precedence, i.e. that, when there is a percentage of how much is to be taught in a religion in relation to others, it will also be perceived that there is a qualitative primacy in teaching. Furthermore, in view of the country's history and tradition, however, a quantitative preference for Christianity in the context of human rights remains possible, and the Committee points out that today's scientific plans state that the content relating to the defined objectives of competence in the subject is to be distributed by about 55 pst. of the hours of the main area of Christianity. The Committee has noted that the Ministry will remove the percentage distribution, and it is precisely in view of the fact that one will not be in the same situation as before with regard to being sentenced to give a religion qualitative precedence over others. We have stressed from the majority that the liquidation of the percentage distribution of the main subjects in the subject does not involve a shift in the objectives of competence. We also refer to the proposition, which states that the curriculum of the subject states that knowledge of Christianity should continue to have the quantitative majority of the teaching material. We also assume that there are opportunities for local variation. I further point out that at present there is a reform of faith training, where great resources have been given to the various beliefs to strengthen their ability to teach their religion. I hope it is not understood in this room that it will no longer be taught in Christianity in the Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1923	I have no intention of going on to the debate on the RLE subject with the representative Gerd Janne Kristoffersen. I take note of what has now been said in this round. I just wanted to try to express an experience that I think some of those who work with young people in this country have, so it's also known in this congregation. That was basically the background, and I don't really want it to be followed up here and now, since we haven't taken up the proposals either. Then I take note that Christianity is to have a quantitative primacy. I hope that it becomes reality, and that the teachers also strive for it. So I just rewrite what I wrote, I wrote it, as a man said, and say, "What I said, that's what I said."
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-upper.ana.ud1372e1930	Several have not asked for the word, and no proposals have been made. The Odelsting's decision is thus endorsed by the Laging, and the law will be to send the King in accordance with the Constitution.
