ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e60	The case concerns a proposal from the Progress Party to set up a Security Committee in Stortinget. The Committee shall, inter alia: have the task of discussing with the Government important issues relating to the country's internal security and anti-terrorism work, emergency plans and operational security measures. Such discussion should take place before important decisions are taken, according to the proposers. The Judicial Committee has drawn up a draft opinion on the proposal and the draft is annexed to the proposal by the Presidency. A previous proposal to set up a Security Committee with a similar mandate was rejected by the Stortinget on 11 January 2007. In the Judicial Committee and the Presidency, the proposal was supported only by the Progress Party. In the view of the majority, a large-scale body is not fit to play the role of the police in the operational tasks assigned to it by the mandate set out in the proposal. With regard to ‘important decisions’ in this area, which shall include operational security measures, it may be essential that decisions can be taken quickly and flexibly. A premise that discussions with the SSC should take place ‘before major decisions are taken’ - as the proposal states - would, in the majority's view, not only be inappropriate but simply hampering activities and in particular situations could delay vital measures. I also refer to the position with annexes and recommend the majority's conclusion that the proposal is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e71	It is not a new proposal from the Progress Party that is being discussed here today, as the President-in-Office just pointed out. One year ago, Stortinget rejected a similar proposal and justified it, among other things. the fact that such a mandate as the Progress Party considers a Security Committee in the Storting will mean that the Storting is deeply involved in the responsibility of the executive. The majority also pointed out that a Security Committee with the mandate to which the proposal at the time was addressed ‘will impede subsequent control’ exercised by the Storting through the EOS Committee because ‘the responsibilities become unclear’. These are also some of the strongest objections raised by the majority of the Judicial Committee to the proposal under consideration today. In recent years, social security and counter-terrorism have become an increasingly important part of the authorities’ preparedness and prevention work, and the Stortinget has had a number of issues to address. But so it is that parts of society's work to protect themselves against terror and undermining activities are such that transparency must be limited both to the public and to parts of the political environment. The reasons are obvious, but of course there are dilemmas about democratic and parliamentary control. This is the background to the establishment of a separate control body to monitor, on behalf of the Storting, the performance of the services in question within the framework laid down and to the annual report of the EOS Committee to be processed each year. Developments in recent years, with the changes that have taken place in the international threat scene, raise new demands for the necessary countermeasures. This leads to a greater impact on civil society as well. Therefore, greater transparency on the reasons for action to be taken is important. This is the background to the annual threat assessment published by the Police Security Service on its websites. The Minister of Justice has also, on several occasions, briefed the Storting both in presentations relating to budgetary proceedings and in the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee on the activities of the PST and current situations. There are challenges related to the need for information both between government and growth and against the public. However, in the majority's view, the proposal of the Progress Party on a separate Safety Committee on the Storting is not a good response to these challenges. The proposed composition of the sample will not reflect the composition of the Storing, as all the other bodies of the Storing do, and the composition raises many questions. What emphasis should a government place on the advice given in the committee? And who will be responsible after, the government or the security committee? A majority of the Judicial Committee also rejects the proposal of the Progress Party for a separate budget chapter and justifies the appropriateness of the budget to be under the heading of today's budget. 440 and treated in the same way as the special agencies of the Police Directorate. This ensures, inter alia: better flexibility to take account of developments up to the final breakdown in December of each year. We are also pleased that during the last two budgetary procedures, the Storting has been made aware of the budget and the number of staff in the PST. During the examination of the current year’s budget, the PST made a separate presentation of the activities of the service to the Judicial Committee. The proposal for a separate safety committee has been dealt with and rejected by Stortinget before. Nor have any new arguments emerged this time to suggest that we should adopt the proposal. Norway shall be as equipped as possible to withstand crises and terror, but this is not the way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e88	The terrorist attacks in Madrid in 2004 and London in 2005 have shown that the threat picture in Norway and other European countries has increased significantly. Fortunately, several terrorist attacks have been averted thanks to the good efforts of the respective country intelligence services. The Progress Party considers that there is a need for increased transparency in the threat assessments of the PST and the budgetary situation of the EEA. The Progress Party therefore considers that a Security Committee should be set up in Stortinget. The role of the Security Committee shall be to discuss with the Government important issues relating to the country’s internal security and anti-terrorism work, contingency plans and operational security measures vis-à-vis departments, Directorates, departments, institutions and officials. Such discussion should take place before important decisions are taken. Furthermore, the Committee should be responsible for a budget chapter in the area of the Police Security Service (PST). The Committee shall review and monitor the work of the security service and service. Such a safety committee will be able to provide an opportunity for questions of preparedness, procedures, staffing, resources, legislation and information exchange to be raised by the elected representatives. Such an opportunity does not exist to a sufficient extent today, which means that the national Parliament does not follow up its constitutional obligations towards the population to exercise control. I take up the proposal of the Advance Party, which is included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e103	The representative of Thore A. Nistad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e106	It has not been so long since an almost equivalent proposal was dealt with in the Grand Duchy, at that time in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. The right then joined the majority, which indicated that a large-scale body is not fit to have the role of purely operational tasks in this field, as the mandate in the proposal stated. In such an important area as social security and counter-terrorism, it is often essential that decisions are taken quickly and immediate action is taken. Furthermore, the right will not go into this process in order to set up a separate safety committee in Stortinget. At the same time, it is a real problem that the Justice Committee's work on the budget does not have access to the PST's classified threat assessment, and that the Stortinge's assumptions to assess whether the necessary resources are made available to the PST thereby weakening. In the right, there is a need for clarification at this point and therefore alerts us that we will return to this issue in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e117	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Add User-ID Succeeded [[Fooding, see page 3648]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e133	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 3648]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e149	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e156	Initially, I would like to give full support to the intentions of the proposers that a knowledge-driven, analytical research, a police study, will be necessary to provide a good basis for decision-making both in the department and in the directorate. So the intention behind the proposal I have a great deal of understanding for. It is also entirely in line with what we have said in the Soria Moria Declaration that we must have a knowledge-driven justice policy. Nevertheless, we have come to a different conclusion from what the proposers had wanted in dealing with this matter, and it has several points in mind. First of all, when we took over power after last big shots, we had some rather acute issues in Police Norway. We were so quick that we had great challenges with the manning. This led, among other things, to: that we quickly increased the admission to the Police College in order to meet the challenges. But we were, as the proposers express here, also uncertain about the scale of the challenges we faced in a longer time perspective. That was the background for the government to shut down the crew project last January. It's a project that ends these days, and I'm really looking forward to getting the results. It will at least provide a picture of the main challenges facing the police in Norway in the future, namely how much manpower we need towards 2015-2020. So it was one of the central points of the proposal by the proposers. In addition, it has gradually become so that we have debated Police Norway many times, both in the Committee and in this Chamber. And as a result, we've also asked for something through the note form and from the pulpit about the crew project, whether they can look at other moments as well. Then I realized that they have taken it in part, so it will be exciting to see what kind of moments they have discovered in the work that has now been going on for one and a half years. And then it's also that a state like the police act, with its etat structure, has, of course, a limited capacity in terms of what it can do in terms of analysing its own establishment. That is why the majority of the Judicial Committee wants the proposal to be annexed to the minutes. We fear that if we put down a large sample to look at the police case again, there will be a lot of double work. We will therefore await the outcome of the crew project and perhaps also discover other areas of concern that proposers have not included here, to see if even more research is needed for the future. But we don't know that per. Today, and therefore, the majority’s position is that the proposal is annexed to the Minutes. We recommend Stortinget to support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e167	The majority of the Committee, in its comments, has referred to the ongoing staffing project in the Police Directorate and therefore considers the proposal for a police study to be respected. Then you cannot have read the proposal and the reasons for the police study. Firstly, the time horizon is considerably further ahead, and secondly, and most importantly, the point of a broad police study is to involve society in shaping the police of the future. This would provide the basis for a greater social debate on the police and give a different legitimacy to the closed process around the manning project. Of course, I am aware of the reference group, but I do not think that this has been an open process, and the Stortinget also has no information on how recommendations in the crew project will be subject to treatment outside the police circles and in the Stortinget, and whether and when we get the result presented. We know that per year. Today, there is nothing about it. According to the Council of State's response, the investigation will be completed on 1 June and it may be close to assuming that the matter will be presented in the budget for 2009. The listing of staffing measures in the police force at present is interesting, but the main point of the police study is to provide magnification and government with a more solid foundation for long-term and comprehensive plans for the further development of the police and relief services in Norway. In its reply to the Committee, the Council of State is concerned that the Right has referred to the defence study as a model for a police study. Our point has never been a blueprint, but to point out that we need the same systematicity and long-termity and a broader societal approach to a police investigation, which plays such an essential role in everyday life and in the quality of life of the individual. There are few things that upset people more and create more unrest than the fact that the police are short and do not have the power to stand up for individuals and the community when the need for help becomes acute. The entire morale of society is challenged when the rule of law does not extend. That's why it's in our common interest to make sure that the police actually extend. This should therefore be a matter for Stortinget. It's not going to be like that. I'm sorry -- when it's quite obvious that police developments in many places have not kept pace with either the tasks or the development of the people. For example, Oslo has Since the turn of the millennium, 60,000 inhabitants, or a town of the size of Tromsø, have applied without the police force reflecting this. A survey in the VG on 1 June reports that in 2008 Stavanger has fewer police resources than in 1960 - despite the fact that the municipality has tripled its population in the same period of time. This is not meant to be a criticism of sitting government, but a picture that social development has gone its way, without changing governments taking into account population changes. There are good reasons to plan the impact of the police in the same long-term perspective as the Defence. To train and retrain the police takes time. Analysis of the threat picture, crime trends and trends in society in general are all factors involved in determining the size of the future police force, their need for expertise and the standard of equipment. A police study must also include new analyses of the Oslo police situation in the light of urban tasks and a clearly more challenging crime scene. Of course, securing the PST resources needed to deal with the most serious forms of crime must also be central. In Norway, we often compare ourselves with our neighbouring countries. It should then be borne in mind that both Sweden and Denmark today have considerably more police officers per year. built-in than us, even the police tasks there are fewer. A growing number of local politicians are committed to continuing a visible and close police force, as this creates security in the local environment. We have to take care of this commitment. This may include, inter alia: the involvement and consultation of local authorities in matters affecting the future police force and task portfolio of the country. In my opinion, we have not been good enough. I have noticed that the Joint Federal Police Department, which has been an instigator of the police study, and who sits in the reference group of the crew project, is completely in disagreement with the Council of State when he argues that the crew project is overreacting to a police study. It is now tempting to repeat one of the mountain weather rules: turn around in time, there is no shame to turn around. If the Council of State is serious about the responsibility of local politicians through police councils, if the Council of State wants a more effective police force in close contact with other central social institutions, and if he wants to be ahead of the evolution of crime, why not take the initiative in a large and thorough police investigation? What you call a child - investigation or police study - must be of secondary importance, only this important work will be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e190	This is also a debate that has been taken more than once in this Chamber. This may not be the last time today either. First of all, I would like to pay tribute to the proposers. Then, with all due respect, I wanted you to be equally concerned about this in the previous period. There are a lot of heavy justice politicians from the previous justice department now, who also had the opportunity to focus on this in the last period, without perhaps doing so to a large extent. At the same time, that doesn't mean we're not going to do the job right now, because it's necessary. Governmental councils and government parties claim that by educating the current number of people, this is going to be a good thing. Some of us may still be in doubt if it's going to go all the way to the goal -- not least given that government parties focus a lot on education. But I actually see that the districts out there lack the funds to hire people, that it's a bigger problem than training people. So it doesn't help with more trained policemen if you don't have the means to hire them in the districts. At the same time, the story of what happened in the previous period, and what happens in this period, has been discussed up and down and down and back, and it is probably a ‘never ending story’ to use a good Norwegian term. So we're going to keep going. I still think that if there's something we're going to listen to and focus on, then there's feedback from the audience. I have an experience that this year, 2008, is a year that is almost as bad as 2004, when the Workers' Party made budgetary settlements with the Bondevik II government. I remember that our current police director said in a debate programme that they were not impeccable, but entirely in the border country. That's what the Workers' Party got to that time. Now the state council claims that everything is going so much better, to use a right-wing expression. If that's dress right, I'll leave it unsaid, because that's probably the shared opinions about in this room. What is at least certain is that the audience expects more than what the Storting is able to deliver today. I think that's bad. We have a police code in Norway. Paragraphs 1 and 2 are quite clear on the responsibility of the State. It is my reverential claim to the Council of State to per. Today we are not where we should have been. There's too much distance between the expectations that the audience has and the service that they get back. Of course, felt security is not something to be adopted. It may also be difficult to satisfy the hundred percent, but what we're going to be very aware of is that if the distance between the audience's expectations and what the police are able to deliver, we get a problem, and we get a problem that will be increasing, not least in relation to the station that does the job, the police. Police are the tool and the point of balance between right and wrong when law-abiding citizens need help to sort things out. Now it seems that if individuals want to deliver a review, you get the recommendation about before you get home, if you are so lucky to be able to submit the notification. We have received enquiries from policemen who have been given new one-handed weapons, who have shot up and finished being approved, but who do not have access to ammunition to maintain the level they want. I think that's gross. So there may be situations where the same servants are in a sharp situation, and they will feel, in the worst case, that they are not comfortable with the situation, not least with the basis of lack of training. What we might have to do was stop an internal dispute about who did what, about who promised what, and about who didn't do what. We should rather have agreed on a focus and addressed what it should actually focus on. At my discretion, there will be things like: how long should the audience have to wait from the time they ask for assistance until they get the necessary assistance - so how long is it going to be? Are we going to go into that debate to clarify the needs we have in the future? And not least: what expectations should the public have regarding the delivery and presence of Norwegian police? We can discuss educational figures, who was the best, and who was the worst, but it doesn't help today, it doesn't. We don't solve anything by discussing history. We might solve things by looking forward and looking at the common problems we all have, and then finding a solution that serves the audience. That we focus here on political diversity, competence and wisdom - yes, it is possible that it is present in this Chamber. I think, unfortunately, that it's so that on the outside of this hall they don't necessarily always see the same wisdom. It may make sense that they're critical of what we're doing, but at least it should be a guide to challenging us to get to the things that are most important. It's not to argue about history, but to have a focus on the future to address the problems that I'm sure we all see, possibly with a slightly different political anchoring.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e207	Is the representative of Ellingen going to bring up a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e210	Yes, then the representative Ellingen would like to take up the proposals of the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e215	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen has then taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e218	I guess we had a debate that looks like this, for approx. A month ago. Then I was in the Western Union. And I realize that there was someone who thought it was an honorable thing to take up what I meant in my absence. If anyone wants to try today, I'm present. Then I'll answer, but I don't need to rip up the history. I serve the West Union Storting, and I expect you to follow the rules of the game that you take things up with people face to face. So I've said that -- and we're not going back to that day in May, we're dealing with the day in June. Now, when I go to the pulpit and support the proposal that has been made, it's because I've decided to be quite mass, and the bullying, almost a little pushy, when it comes to getting on the number, which is obligatory to have more policemen. That's because as a wanderer in this city, I think as I start to be shy about how many weights I see in relation to the police, for example. at Karl Johan. I know that part of this is because of how many police officers we train. I know that another part of it, that we can actually do something with very quickly, and that we're discussing in every budget, is how many civil positions we put into the police, because it can release someone to do other jobs. I'm not going to repeat all of this. The left had a concrete proposal that was up to be considered for approx. A month ago. The left promoted that proposal primarily, and supported subsidiaryly a proposal in which we agreed with the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party to train both more people, to hire more civilians and to use the police reserve. And the latter is also part of the issue of social security and vulnerability that is now to be addressed. So today, when I support the proposal for police studies, it's because it's simply a political move to try and get a grip on what's going on. It is absolutely right that there was a lot of bold speech in the summer of 2004. I was then the Council of State to manage this bold speech. The bold speech did not go beyond any kind of lines of responsibility or loyalty, but it was a correct description of the situation. Because it was a correct description of a situation that was pressured, but not irresponsible, it led to a budget for 2005 making a power cut to secure the police. The representative of Ellingsen agreed to double the power cap, and then put in some interesting budget negotiations where he was satisfied with some important needs that he had to ensure Norwegian citizens' security. Back to the case: Left votes in favour of the proposal simply to indicate that we want to have messages about what we need in the police, both trained policemen and civilians. And we want to have it for a proper treatment. So I'd like to say something - and now I'm not going to be Polish: every Norwegian Minister of Justice has no investment budget to operate with. And when you get some investment, it's hard thanks, whether it's prisons, helicopters, or emergency networks. So that's how the defense sits, for example. with various posts as anyone who has the position of the State Council of Storberg will only be able to dream about. If you, for example, had 10 pst. by the Department of Defence, you would have had a considerable right of advice to have taken very many reasonable steps, which I am absolutely certain that anyone who is now on the Justice Committee would be on board. I think there's a real reason besides what I gave instead, to argue that there has to be a grip on the justice sector, and that's if the justice sector, which is as staff-intensive as it is, has budgets that go on people, and almost nothing else, is going to have a chance, then there has to be some grip that makes you think more. It's clear that the defense has those grips. You can discuss the value of the long-term plans, but at least they lead to the creation of agendas. We've had research reports. That makes us think longer lines. It is very good that the Council of State and the Department work on a staffing plan, which is to follow up what has been adopted in the context of the treatment of the police role report in the summer of 2006. But I think that a study that opens up perspectives gives an opportunity to see the police in a wider social context -- it just gives you a little bit of an armshake. Then I do not expect my reasoning in support of a proposal I myself have not promoted, without further ado to arouse enthusiasm. But I am now promoting my reasoning in this way with some insight into being able to promote it, and I will be allowed to end it. I said it a little cheerfully to the representative Sandberg at the back of the rotunda when I came here, that we should not finance the police on tolls, but I have almost helped to do so. I have been sitting in a government where there was a shriek about money - therefore the fines in Norway are quite sky high. What do you do when you're blind? Then you suggest the suggestions you can have to get money to run the police. And when someone doesn't like it, you look at people and say, "Are you in favour or against the police?" Are you for or against crime? Most of them are against crime, and they're for us to have the police. But it's clear that we need to create a greater understanding and security for us to have well-educated people. I believe that any Norwegian Minister of Justice, regardless of party colour, will be struggling with it because of structural conditions in how to build up the budgets and get them to. I would like to say that the proposals that have been put forward are also parallel to the Left's proposals. But more in principle: the Left supports the proposals that have been put forward today by the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e237	In the newspaper today, the representative Odd Einar Dørum says that he is in his last period at Stortinget. I have to say that there is a great responsibility for the forthcoming members of the Judicial Committee in the next period, possibly those who take part in the debate: to ensure that the history necessary for continuity in the judicial debate is presented. On the other hand, I am sure that the social debater Odd Einar Dørum will ensure that any factual errors or holes in the memory will nevertheless be charged, if necessary. We from the Christian People's Party support the minority. I have seen that there are some people who think that the staffing project under the Directorate of Police is a satisfactory response to the minority's proposals. I personally think it must have been very good to get a broad approach to work, both in terms of task definition, and in terms of dimensioning the future police force, and that this work must also involve far more than what the current project is doing, without saying anything wrong about it. Let me just give you one example. Social security issues. The interface between the police and the defense, I think it might be useful to include in such a study as the minority here suggests. Otherwise, I refer to the comments from the minority. I can largely join them. I have therefore also given an instruction on our vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e253	I make interesting considerations about the articles that have been made. What struck me and the Government when we entered the government offices to take over responsibility for, among other things. The police in Norway, in particular, did not need any further investigations - this is where action was needed. That was actually enough of plans for the entire justice field. It is absolutely right that money is needed for, among other things. investments, which was also covered by the representative Dørum. But what happens to investments? As far as prisons are concerned, we will have invested over 2 billion kroner when the construction of Halden prison is well in port. $1.4 billion is going to be spent on it. It's a big investment. As far as important police equipment is concerned, we have chosen to start the deployment of emergency networks, with an investment cost of NOK 3.6 billion. There were many plans about this in the department when we got there. As regards the question of rescue helicopters, there were many plans in the department for bystander and new base in Florø. We're the ones that start it. So I'm proud to belong to a government that chooses to put into life the plans that exist. That's what it says. I could have mentioned many other areas in the justice sector, but I'm going to focus on the police. We need knowledge and analysis about how we develop Norwegian police. But we certainly know more than enough about the challenges we face. During the period we have been in government, we have granted over NOK 0.5 billion extra to the police and prosecution authorities, last in connection with the revised national budget, where we invite the Stortinget to allocate SEK 75 million. Extra kroner. The most precarious thing - whether you like history writing or not - is that today we graduate for a few policemen, among other things. to patrol the streets of Oslo. That's why it was up to the government to increase the admission to the high school of police. We didn't need many investigations and plans to do that. The fact that last year and this year we've had the biggest recording in ten years, with 432 students, was one of the most important steps we could take to get more policemen out in the streets. The aim now to further increase the admission of police higher education in the coming years will be a very important part of the strategy to follow up the debate that we, among others, are having. was involved in the police role report, where we also decided to prepare a crew analysis. That crew plan--I'm glad the Stortinge's saying--is now just around the corner. We expect it to be published on Monday, so that the opposition and other social actors can also take part in the debate on staffing and on the police's tasks in the future. It was a task that we thought it was very important to address, in order to analyse what needs we actually have. I would like to point out that there is now considerable investment in police equipment. There was an urgent need to upgrade protective equipment - both helmets and waistcoats - especially for women, but also for men. So there was a need for new protective equipment. It was a priority to invest in this, and it has been done. There is also a replacement of revolvers for guns. The new pistols will be put into service after training has been given. The next investment area we're now going into concerns vehicles. We keep what we promised in the Soria Moria Declaration. I believe that these were not areas where we needed significant plans and investigations to understand the needs. The need was there. They were not taken care of. There are major investments - I agree with the representative Dørum in - and we will not escape them by writing new staging messages or setting new plans. So I would like to point out that the government, as part of our efforts to get more police force out, has also taken on board this by establishing an interaction between local police and local politicians, which also the opposition has been very concerned about. I'm happy to be able to say today that per. In April 2008, police councils - or agreements with municipalities to set up such councils - were established in 269 municipalities. There will be an important meeting place to discuss how the police will function in the community, and, in particular, to look at the possibilities of preventing crime. Finally, I would like to point out that one of the biggest bets, which was also discussed in Odelstinget today, is the investment in a DNA research register. It's spending more than 100 million. extra, by providing central funding, will provide the police with a unique tool to detect more crime. The majority's response to the minority's need for a police study is probably that now we don't need any more plans. Now we need action.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e284	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e287	Normally, I am here in the house of education policy and work with the Knowledge promise. Before I got to Stortinget, I took history as a subject. Part of the subject's history is about source understanding and source criticism. If you go into the big papers, you'll see that emergency networks are a Roman decision in the 2005 budget. Then you will see that the appropriations are in the budget for 2006, and then anyone who knows the matter will know that it has taken time later - for reasons that I will not go into, but that have certainly been okay enough. And just like anyone who's been around to fight for such a grant that I've done, from 1999 to 2004, I know exactly what it takes to get it. I'm very glad that the State Council Storberget didn't lose a rematch about it, because those who don't like it will always take rematches. But it was there like a bet. As far as prison in Halden is concerned, the last budget of the Bondevik government was launched for 2006. It's absolutely brilliant that you recognize it. But it's that you don't get bigger in the present or in the future by trying to write about the story. And of course, I'm fully aware that it's right to act, and that part of the action is about money -- that's not the problem. What has been the challenge here today is the representative Syversen raised, to let us get the documents documented. A historical study will document the actions, but even more important: it will point to the needs we now have. It is quite fine that the Council of State has received money for a number of concrete purposes, but it is not necessary to re-write the story in order for it to look better in the present. That's why I went to the pulpit. I really didn't think I was going to go to the pulpit so fast after the representative Syversen's posts-- but I do. And since I still know the internal psychological blood taste in my mouth of having to fight for emergency networks for five years, I can't be told from the pulpit how it really happened. It was so that I was actually there, and I know what it cost to get it to--both of work effort, endurance, faith, hope and love and intense backing from Stortinget. It is possible that I am now in a freestyle, but I was so close to it. And I'm very happy that the government hasn't left it. But I get to say from the pulpit that as a Norwegian citizen, I met the citizen who later became prime minister, who asked me if I was sure that there were funds in the redundancy budget we were going to make, so that there was no undue trouble negotiating, at Soria Moria. I assured him that we had no such deception with him; we kept our word. Then it is good to have kept your word later. The second is that it is being built further. I'm a little worried because it's going to be late, but I'm sure it'll get started, I'm sure it'll be useful when you get this good system for the whole country. - Some historical footnotes from a knowledge politician with history as a subject on this June evening, with so much beautiful on the outside and with so many challenges on the inside.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e300	It's not bad on the inside either.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e303	Then we have at least learned one thing, that the crew project, as there has been so much secrecy around, will be published on Monday, and that we will then be able to see what we have thought behind the closed doors. But I also have to give the reflection that when the government here makes the equipment investments and the additions made to the police budget, to a big point, I would remind you that the government has had well 150 billion more at its disposal than the previous government had - or since the previous elections - and it should just be lacking that the police would not get their share of that growth in the budget. Another thing is that the opposition in all budgets since the accession of the Council of State has actually proposed major appropriations to the police. But of course he didn't say anything about that. Then again, I want to challenge the Council of State that the Joint League of Police, which sits on the inside of the crew project, and which were the first to take up the thread and the idea of initiating a police study, a broader approach to this with the police, still today believes that the crew project to be presented on Monday does not provide the same broad approach and does not have the content that was thought to have a police study. So, of course, it is gratifying that so many police councils now have seen the light of day, or will see the light of day during 2008. Even there are a few hundred municipalities left, and I hope we get to the goal as soon as possible. But it's a paradox that the local politicians we now want to get more involved in justice policy, which we want to be part of the big public efforts to get safer communities, in order to get a police force more involved with local authorities, are the same local politicians that I would like to be allowed to play a role in such a larger police study, but, as I know, they have been there when the important crew project, to which the Council of State refers, has done their job. It also strikes me that when the Council of State now listed all the measures, all the investments and all that has been done with the police in the last couple-three years, there is now-need to be met, while the police study was to see 15-20 years ahead. So I still can't understand that the Council of State doesn't see the need for us to be the leader, that we should look into the glass ball, and that we should build a bigger police force than we have today. But the fact is that the increased capacity at the Police College is barely enough to cover the natural departure and the challenges that are in the department today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e318	The manning study that we are waiting for this week is just for the future. It is not such that it shall be the next year's budget paper. There is, of course, a manning study by 2015 and 2020, so here you will have the opportunity to see how we are going to train, how we are going to raise the level of police training in Norway far beyond what the previous government had ambitions about. That is my concern in this debate. I'm actually getting a little tired of every time we point out that there's been a significant increase for the police, it's being made as a false explanation of history. You should have studied history for a very long time if you find that it's a false story. And on the question of the DNA bet, there wasn't a penny in the budgets that were waiting for us, until that DNA bet that a co-ordinated bet had been talking about for many, many years. There wasn't a crown to children's houses around that we establish now - we're going to get five in a short time. There was not a penny to develop and get down this queue that was lying there like a tree. And to that prison that we built in Halden, it's true that there was a start-up grant of $20 million, but I remember that it costs 1.4 billion kroner. So you can't blame the government for not taking responsibility for such important and so big investments. I have learned so well at this time that start-up appropriations of between 10 and 20 million. kr is okay, we have to have that. But it's the big investment promise that costs money. The same applies to the emergency network - one had the same challenges in creating the huge investment involved in providing the police with a safe, safe and functional connection. I could say the same thing about the question of rescue helicopter service, where we have taken significant investment measures that are absolutely crucial in relation to civil society security and in relation to police activities. As far as education is concerned, I understand that it is painful to be met with this for the opposition. But it's important to bring the story here, because history tells us what kind of situation we're facing next year, that we have too few trained policemen. Then you have to look back to at least learn from the story, so that we actually make sure that the recordings get higher than what they were before. So simple. That's what the government has chosen to do. That is why we are doing a lot of work to get a crew analysis that also tells us what kind of level we are going to have in police training in the future, so that we can meet the needs here in Norway. I'm not so fascinated by comparing with other countries and having policemen per capita. I believe that we should train policemen so that we feel that we are safeguarding our security based on Norwegian circumstances, on the prevention policy we have, and on the social structure we have. Here I still believe that the time has not come for any more plans and investigations, in addition to the manning analysis that is now coming. The time has come to complete what the Government is now doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e334	With all due respect, you have to listen to self-criticism, because it comes from the heart. After listening to the Council of State, I have no doubt that the description of reality is a variable. If it's as good as the Council of State foresaw, then why are the feedback from Police Norway as they are? In fact, I perceive that they are negative and point to challenges that are not at all solved. The council says it's a real bet, that they've taken hold and arranged for more police, etc. If you look at the appropriations and the strengthening of Chapters 440 and 441, they'll probably cover the rise in wages and prices - if you're lucky. The reality out there is a real decline. Although the Council of State does not like it, at least I perceived it as the clear signals we received from the Joint Police Association when we had budget hearings last autumn. I fully accept that the Council of State disagrees with that -- but at the same time it is at least claimed. The price increase is prescribed by the Ministry of Finance to approx. 5-5,5 pst. If I don't remember completely wrong. The councils also say that he does not need any more plans. Then it's quite simple for me to ask the following: What does the Council of State need to use, to a much greater extent than he does today, our police helicopter? We have one of Europe's most beautiful police helicopters, which the Council of State has put on the ground more or less. I also record that when it was requested this weekend, the Council of State was once dressed up and referred to the Oslo police and that the POD should respond to this. It's a new page at the Council of State that I find dressed, but I'm not sure it's real, because I've otherwise registered that the Council of State is pretty fast on the plate when there's a need to comment on things. But sometimes I realize that the Council of State is a sunshine minister, who wants to be there when it's nice. When there are negative things, I don't have any experience that he's as present as otherwise. It is possible that it will be considered unreasonable, but I still reserve the right to have such an opinion. It's also a fact that interests me, since the Council of State is now talking about the education and staff project. In the context of the review of the revision, the Progress Party sent some questions to the Ministry, including: to find out what it was like on the vehicle side. What I find worrying is that you don't have an overview. We asked how many vacancies you expected to have out. You didn't have an answer to that. And when it comes to take-off - whether there's free police capacity out there - you have an estimate of how many people are outside the profession, but you don't know what they're doing. If that is what the Council of State has taken on through its new project to be published on Monday, it will be interesting for us. He should then possibly share that knowledge with the Ministry of Finance, so that the answers to the Stortinget get better. As of today, they are far from good enough. If the council wants it, he can get a copy of the answers, so he will see how thin it is and how little relevant it is - if it should be of interest to him. Otherwise, it's good to hear that he doesn't need any more plans. The council is a man of action, and any description other than that is going well is totally wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e347	It's tempting -- and that must be law -- when the Council of State starts talking about false history, to supplement the story that the Minister of Justice is trying to tell. And then you might want to look a little bit more than just the sector we're talking about right now. If we are to take into account the situation in which the previous government took over - after the Stoltenberg government - it was a situation in which the Norwegian economy was at full speed downwards. The Bondevik II government had to make sure they got the economy right, and they got it. The effect came gradually, something that this government has completely benefited from. When this government in three years has received NOK 135 billion more at its disposal, you can ask yourself if you believe that the justice sector as a whole has got its share of it. If the Council of State looks at its own budgetary documents, he will see that the growth in the justice sector is lower now than it was in the last government when the overall budget is taken together. You can hare off starter appropriations and who started with what when. The point is that justice policy cannot be isolated from an overall political assessment of what is actually possible within the given budgets. This government has come to the table, and now we see that in terms of economic policy, there are challenges from this government. It must be answered by a new government, unfortunately - not unfortunately in that sense, but the economy gradually becomes weaker, and it probably has to strive for a new government first and foremost. The point is that you don't isolate one department budget, that's the total budget that matters. In that statement, I would say that the budget of the Bondevik II Government prioritised the justice sector at least as much as the Storberget does. He has more money at his disposal, partly thanks to the efforts of the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e358	Then it was over at the party mood here in the hall, then we were back where we've been a lot of times before. I didn't really intend to take the floor, but when the council starts, I almost have to do it since I'm also one of the proposers. So we're not going to paint the situation of the Norwegian police. What the state council is doing now is painting non-figurative art, because there's no more police out of it. So it's starting to come up with a pattern, where the Council of State when it comes to the police, unlike in all other cases, starts to adopt the same strategy in the public space as its colleague Brustad from Hedmark - starting to push other people in front of him because he won't answer questions about the situation in which the Norwegian police are in. When we first spoke about the Norwegian police - the goal position of the police director, we discussed it carefully. I find it strange that, on the first occasion, the principles we discussed are being disregarded and that the Chief of Police is being extended. Nothing bad said about the current police director, but it kind of reminds me that you have a good employee with whom you have a good relationship, which it is practical to push ahead when the next year comes to see what the situation of the Norwegian police is in, when you start to face the fact that, as Syversen said, you don't give priority to the police. And you have not only NOK 135 billion, but NOK 160 billion more to distribute than what the previous government had, so let the sitting government come to the table. We in the opposition, and for the Right, we have to be careful to paint black. Therefore, I also use the opportunity again to say that we have a government council that is busy a lot and does a lot in very many fields. But the most important area now is Norwegian police. 2008 was supposed to be the year of the police - it has been, but with the opposite sign. It's a little strange how we from all over the police land and beach around hear about a situation that is in conflict with what this council says. Then you can ask questions about them, and we are completely wrong, and if the Council of State is absolutely right. Maybe he could stick his finger in the ground and at least admit that there is something in between. Then there's neither black paint nor beauty painting, and you actually start to see concrete figures -- not non-figurative figures, but policemen out in the streets. It would be an art form that this Council of States could show in the future when the budgets are presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e371	I'm going to try to stick to one area, the manning bit. The seven said we came to the deck table. Yes, it may be in relation to some of the major investments - there were many plans that were clear, and investments were started. But in relation to the manning situation, it's not like Ellingsen says, that the police have been most alarmed about, it's more money. On the contrary, they have been alarmed that they will not be able to fill their vacant posts. So it comes from the police officer after the police officer over the whole country - you can't get hold of the police trained people. A result of that was a sub-consumption for 2007 of a quarter of a billion dollars. It says something about the situation in the Norwegian police force. I wish the police had spent more of the 250 million. kr to hire more civilians, which they have begun to do more. We could do it a lot more, I think. It has also pointed out an overall committee, both in the context of the police mission and on several later occasions. But nevertheless, there is a description of the situation in relation to overall manning. I don't think Norwegian police officers, if they had the opportunity to hire police-trained people, would have been sitting on the money. I just don't think so. In that area, there's a fact, whether you like it or not, that it was something far from a covered table we came to. It's going to wear off, not just this year and next year, but for years to come. Then we can at least recognize it all, as we tried in the form of a note, when we brought not only the previous government, but also the Stoltenberg I government and the Bondevik I government. So there hasn't been an attack on the Bondevik II government all the way here. We've tried several times, both in the form of annotation and with statistical writing, to point out that this has been a failure of many. We've also recognized that there was no screaming scream from the opposition last time about raising this very much. But now it's a fact, and then you can't fail to take it over, even if you're in opposition. This is just an invitation that we can now, for once, put this ball to death for the future, and then we can focus on what we can jointly promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e384	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 3648]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e400	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e409	This case concerns the possible implementation of the EU and Council Directive, the Data Storage Directive, in Norwegian law. The purpose of the EU Data Storage Directive as it now exists is to harmonise the laws of individual EU Member States relating to the storage of data obtained through the use of electronic communications. The aim is to provide the judicial authorities with a tool to detect, investigate and prosecute serious criminal acts. This Directive is laid down under the first pillar, based on Article 95 of the EU Treaty, and is initially relevant to the EEA as it now exists. The Directive is expected to have legal implications in Norway, as changes in legislation need to be implemented. These amendments must be submitted to Stortinget if the Government concludes that the Directive is EEA-relevant or otherwise relevant to our cooperation with the EU. The vote will take place at the end of the debate. The issue for the left in this matter is that we are sceptical about the Data Storage Directive as it now exists. The Data Storage Directive raises a number of questions regarding privacy. The implementation of the Directive will involve the retention of information on people's e-mail contacts, telephone contacts and Internet usage for any use by the police. This violates previous legal principles, as contact between people who are not suspected of anything should be stored in case they should be suspected at a later stage. The left is skeptical of a change in principles that rock the freedom of individuals to communicate freely without being monitored. This threatens privacy and could threaten freedom of expression. However, there is some uncertainty about the continued fate of the Data Storage Directive, which means that, in the view of the Left, there is no urgency in presenting the matter to the Stortinget. Ireland has filed an EU action for the annulment of the Directive. Ireland refers to the fact that the grounds for the Directive are anti-crime and that it cannot be provided for in Article 95 or other provisions of the EC Treaty, which, of course, link the Directive to Norway by means of the EEA Agreement. The left will therefore call on the Government to await the outcome of the case from Ireland before taking a further decision on the examination of the Directive. The judgment may clarify the action rooms of the Norwegian authorities in order to reject the whole or part of the Directive. The Directive may also be repealed. Nevertheless, if the Government goes further in this matter with the implementation of the directive as it exists, I would refer to the previous proposal of the Left to rely on the minimum framework of the directive, which is six months of storage. In the setting, the government parties refer only to the Council's letters of reply. I am concerned that the government parties are not willing to support the comments of the minority and the Left in the matter and choose to remain silent. I want to challenge the government parties on what you really mean in this case. Finally, I would like to ask the Stortinget to support the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e437	I have at least recorded that the Council of State has today stated, at the latest in an NRC broadcast, that she has the same concerns as the Progress Party. That is a small step forward, and that is actually a new argument in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party, because there is no reason why we should not discuss this much wider in the Grand Duchy until we decide, if necessary, to implement the directive in some way. This Data Storage Directive is, of course, much more than coordinating and storing communications. Perhaps it is time for the Norwegian Storing to take a broader debate on privacy? Now a commission is being reduced. In fact, I believe that that Commission should be allowed to go further into the directive and provide a basis for a broader debate on privacy in its entirety. Let me quote from the Address Paper for a while back: ‘Personal protection in this country has been under pressure for a long time, as we have repeatedly pointed out. In a comprehensive data protection survey in 47 countries, Norway appears to be poor. There is no comfort in the fact that according to the 2007 report, Sweden and Denmark are also affected by a systematic lack of data protection protection. This despite the fact that our two neighbouring countries have a constitutional protection, as opposed to Norway. We are at the bottom of Europe and are criticised in a number of areas. These include an asylum seeker’s register, the sharing of information between state agencies, and the widespread monitoring of financial and health information.’;» Perhaps that is also the reason why when the Progress Party has now decided to be very offensive in advance of the possible implementation of the Data Storage Directive? I also think it is a bit interesting to listen to the representative Solli, who says in his post that he does not want to comment on the proposals of the Progress Party, because the Progress Party will do so itself. I think that is very interesting, because the spokespersons of the Left in this area have allowed themselves to mention both the Progress Party and others in a magazine called the Liberal. Here it is actually reflected that the Left is the party that has not understood the content and has not understood the purpose of why the Progress Party has promoted these proposals. But fortunately it is that the Progress Party does not make representations to the Left, trying to present it as if the Progress Party is not at all concerned with privacy. In fact, the Liberal answers the Left and the Representative Tende even in a statement today, where they go so far as to say that the Tendement’s reference is almost ‘ trendy’ in terms of privacy and that she has not understood anything. I also ask the same question as the Liberal: if it is the case that we want to await the matter with Ireland, why has it not been suggested that we should wait for it? I'm not going to take the task of criticising those who sit in position, but when the Left allows itself to criticise in all directions - criticising both the proposers, the position, the working party and others to sit still - at least the Left must be so honest that they act themselves. The left simply has double communication here and does nothing to have an offensive role in the fight against the directive. I would like to promote the proposals that the Progress Party is behind, and would strongly recommend that both the Left and the others vote in favour of these proposals. The fact that the matter is annexed to the minutes means at least that the matter is ignored silently. If you want to take the debate, at least you have to ask for a broader debate in Stortinget before any legislative proposals come from the Government. If the government decides that this is within the EEA Agreement, it will result in many legislative proposals – propositions – to the Storting that had to be negotiated at different times. It had to be much better to have the matter as a whole, to have an overall debate and to make the necessary decisions in all the areas covered by the Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e455	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e458	It is good that the Progress Party is now impatient about discussing the privacy issue. When the Right chooses not to support the proposals here today, it is because it is almost an order for the Government to submit the Data Storage Directive to debate before it is clarified whether the Data Storage Directive should and must be implemented in Norwegian law. I would like to remind you that the Right has just promoted a very broad and comprehensive representative proposal on the issue of privacy, which will be a good opportunity to discuss. In this context, I would like to stress that there are a great many privacy issues that can be addressed and discussed in this Chamber, regardless of which directive the EU is designing at any time. In the light of the previous debates that have been held here in the Chamber this evening, among others. the first proposal on the ‘Safety Committee in Stortinget’, I would like to point out that many of the issues raised by the Data Storage Directive are a direct consequence of the tragic event in the United States on 11 September 2001. Some people are trying to turn the Data Storage Directive into a kind of EU as a big brother, an EU that has to face three privacy issues down Norway’s head. That discussion will be taken when we get the Data Storage Directive to debate, but I would like to remind you that very much of what the EU is doing in this area is a response to the legislation that the United States has implemented - the Homeland Security Act - and other legal acts that were taken as a result of the terrorist attacks in New York, Washington, etc. Here, there is a slightly more complex background for the Data Storage Directive, which I think it is necessary to bring with it. Having said that, I share a lot of what the Sandberg representative says about the need to get into this debate carefully. I also agree with the rapporteur, who points out that we need some clarifications before we can address the debate. What is true, however, is that a data protection commission has been set up. I think it is reasonable that it will have some time to work, while the Storting must of course address the individual issues related to privacy. I want to point to a challenge that I see, because regardless of a data storage directive, we know that there are a lot of privacy information that is currently stored in different registers, in different offices and in different contexts around this country. I believe that this issue itself is important, but it is equally important to discuss: how are these data being processed? What are the deletion procedures? And in particular, what resources does the Data Protection Authority have to follow up the information that is now floating around in all sorts of systems? Most of it, fortunately, is stored properly, but we know that there are many bad routines, and that there is little control and little follow-up with much of this. That being said, the Right will await the Government's play in relation to the Data Storage Directive. We expect the government to get on the track quickly if it is necessary to advance the case for Stortinget. At the same time, I would like to stress that it is necessary to have a continuous personal protection debate in many areas of society where there are quite large, dark holes, because technological developments have gone so fast that the privacy aspects have not been able to interfere with the turns. That is why I look forward to more substantive personal protection batteries. There are many ways in which an important debate is taking place today, but there is more of a procedural debate on how to deal with a directive, which has not yet been decided to be dealt with in the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e477	What this is really about is the issue of the implementation of the Data Storage Directive in Stortinget. It has been said by the government that it should, of course, and there is no reason to draw up a big debate on this today--or tonight, a rather say. I think the case spokesperson had some good views on the matter in his post. Nevertheless, I will briefly do the right thing for the Center Party's principal position. We believe that there is nothing to suggest that the Data Storage Directive concerns competition rules for the internal market, and that it should therefore be EEA-relevant. In the North Murder, and probably in many other beautiful places in Norway, we have been surrounded by ‘to be shaded’. It's a shame if we get a society that's getting more and more shaded, and where one goes on and on and on and on and on and on. We are not in any way going to give in to the fear of serious terrorist attacks and criminal acts, but the central party seems to have a responsibility and a right to balance the fight against crime on the one hand and the protection of privacy and the legal security of the individual on the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e486	The proposers believe that the Data Storage Directive raises such important, unexplained issues of privacy and freedom restriction that the Directive or the corresponding Directive should not be implemented in Norwegian law without the matter being brought before the Stortinget. Let me first say that I agree that the content of the directive raises important questions of principle that should be discussed in depth. Privacy is one of them. I can assure the proposers that if a storage obligation is to be imposed on providers of electronic communications in Norwegian law, the matter will of course be submitted to the Stortinget. As stated in the letter sent to the Committee by the Ministry of Education, Culture, Education, Education, the Media and Sport. currently no legal obligation to store data generated by the use of electronic communications. On the contrary, the echo promise imposes a deletion obligation on traffic data that is not used for billing or communication purposes. Any implementation of the EU Data Storage Directive will require changes to the ecosystem, and the amendment of the law will have to be introduced in a proposal to the Storting in the usual way. When it comes to the key question of incorporating the Data Storage Directive into Norwegian law, the Government is not yet in a position to do so, and there are several reasons for this. Firstly, it is not clear whether the Directive is EEA-relevant. We have to assess whether or not the content of the Directive falls within the field of competence of the EEA Agreement. The EU has adopted the Directive on privacy in Article 95 and within the framework of internal market cooperation, which indicates that the EU will consider the Directive as EEA-relevant. Ireland, however, has brought an action before the European Court of Justice claiming that the Directive has been infringed. The main argument for Ireland is that the directive's main objective is to reduce serious crime and that it has little to do with regulating the internal market. If Ireland were to win, the Directive would be invalid. Many people argue that we in Norway should therefore wait to take a final position on the EEA relevance until the judgment has been given. Secondly, the whole problem of introducing a storage obligation for data related to electronic communications is challenging. There are several considerations and partly conflicting interests to be balanced when assessing a storage obligation. In relation to the Data Storage Directive, three main concerns have to be considered: firstly, it concerns privacy. The second aspect is the need for better tools for combating crime in the justice sector. The third aspect is competition in the electronic communications market. In conjunction with this document, point The 8-proposal is the specific privacy focus. The representatives of the Progress Party indicate that it has our and is a major debate on the directive in Norway and that the debate is mainly related to privacy considerations. It is important for me to stress that there is a debate that I and the rest of the Government want to welcome, because that debate is important. If we implement the Data Storage Directive in Norwegian law, this will result in large amounts of personal information about us all being registered and stored over a relatively long period of time. The vast majority of us are never in the police searchlight, and I see quite clearly that the introduction of a storage obligation, as we are talking about here, saw privacy under pressure. Although these data are to be stored under strict information security conditions, I have a great understanding of the scepticism that a larger amount of data on our communication should be stored and not deleted after invoicing. It is quite clear that the pressure against privacy speaks against the introduction of a general storage obligation. On the other hand, the police have stated that in many cases electronic tests could be decisive for the resolution of serious crime. This need, if the Directive is EEA-relevant, would have to be weighed against the objective of possible storage for the privacy of individuals. I am not going to go into this discussion right now, for the Government is about to decide on the further data storage process in a short time. I just want to end by stressing that we take privacy very seriously in this matter, as we do in other areas of the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e507	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e510	I am very pleased that the Council of State finally states that one is very concerned with privacy, but I allow myself to say that all parties should perhaps have a greater focus on it, especially in the past. But now it might be time for us to sit down all together, cross-politically, and keep it stronger in focus. What we are dealing with here, on the part of the Progress Party, is to be a little proactive in relation to the directive that lies there. I am a little surprised that the centre party is waiting for a situation in other countries to have opinions on the directive that is there. That is why the Progress Party is now challenging: can we not, as an independent nation, take a stand and have an assessment of the directive as it exists now, to signal to the EU whether we believe it is within or outside the EEA Agreement? That is what the Progress Party is calling for here to a great extent. Can we not have a debate as soon as possible so that we can immediately signal to the EU whether we agree that this is within or outside the EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e519	Jenny Klinge has done well for the Center Party's vision in the matter. In my post, I did something for the Government's view on the matter, as a member of the government should do. In the government it is that one assesses both pro et contra, and it is also a question of waiting for the outcome for Ireland. Today, I have been handed over an award by Finn Arnesen and Fredrik Sejerstedt, our leading EEA lawyers, who point out that it is quite legitimate to await the outcome of Ireland's legal proceedings against the Directive before deciding whether to include it in the agreement. This will also mean that we do not go on many laps with the European Union, which must be done otherwise. So there's one thing going on here that will solve this for us in a neat way. Norway will then have to decide whether or not to introduce the directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e525	Let me ask a question to the Government via the Council of State, because I have just received this statement as well. I think it's very interesting, because the report doesn't just say that you can wait. The report concludes with four more points, and they're interesting. It is said here that there may not be any political consequences if we already conclude that this Directive is outside the EEA Agreement. In fact, they also say that if the Norwegian Government is to conclude that this is inside or outside, it does not matter politically, because we will have a great deal of freedom to adapt to the directive, regardless of what conclusion the Government has to reach. It only reinforces the need for us to take the debate now and for the Storting to take part in the debate, so that the Government can take the right decisions that become proactive in relation to the fact that the directive is already in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e532	The government has not discussed this matter, but it has on its steps to have a good discussion about it. My conclusion is that we should await Ireland's process. I'm pretty open on that. I think it is important to clarify in a clear manner whether the directive is EEA-relevant, before we go further in the matter. So, of course, regardless of that, we also have to consider whether parts of this is in any case relevant to Norway. But it is important to think through that most of us are law-abiding people, and the disadvantage for those of us must be weighed up against the need of the police to get this information. Then it is that with modern communication, skype and IP-telephony, one can also use these without being able to easily track, regardless of whether we introduce the directive or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e541	The Council of State has underlined that the Directive challenges the protection of privacy in Norway. And then the order of things doesn't matter. If you are in a situation where you choose to adapt, the order of the Data Protection Commission's report is particularly important. Can the Council of State assure us that we will receive the Privacy Commission's report on privacy for broad debate in the Grand Duchy before anything happens in relation to the possible transposition of the EU Directive into Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e548	As the Government does not yet have a final position on how the Data Directive will be handled, it is difficult for me today to confirm the time perspective and the order in which the cases will come. Nor is this Council of State sitting with the Privacy Commission's report, so I do not want to speak on behalf of other members of the Government. You can do it yourself. I just have to ask to get back to Stortinget when the government has taken their discussions about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e555	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e560	This is a very important debate. It's about the privacy of the individual. It is about the intervention that public authorities can do, and what action they want to take against the privacy of individuals. So I think it would have been good if we had got a really long, proper, good and thorough debate on this. That is precisely what we now want with the proposal of the Progress Party. Then I want to say that I experience it so that everyone in the hall agrees. Everyone here actually agrees that this is an important matter. This is something you want to look at, and this is something you want to evaluate. Everyone really agrees with the proposals of the Progress Party, but they just cannot vote in favour of the proposal today. We're going to come back, we're going to evaluate everything, but we can't support the proposal. In the previous case, we had a government council that said that there were enough plans, he wanted action. That is exactly what the Progress Party wants to have this case dealt with in Stortinget today. We had hoped that we had a majority. We want action. The Data Storage Directive is there. We know what is in the proposal for the Data Storage Directive. However, it is important that we are proactive - if anything other than that contained in the directive - and meet the challenges of the proposal for the Data Storage Directive. I'm really wondering what is the Right is so much afraid of? The representative of Greece very much agreed with the proposal. He agreed with many of the things in the minority proposal, but he could not support the proposal. Is it because you're a little afraid of what the consequences are in relation to the EU? Is that the concern? Or what really is the Right Concern, which means that they cannot support the proposals of the Progress Party? It is not that this proposal is problematic at all. This proposal is, of course, such that if changes affecting privacy were to be adopted, they would like to get a case back to Stortinget. That is what is at point II of the proposal. Before the Commission's report comes and has been dealt with in Stortinget, it is requested that a separate case be submitted if parts of the EU Data Storage Directive are to be implemented. But I want to be positive. I think it's pretty much just positive signals coming. But it is also a pity that even if you agree entirely, you cannot support and vote for the good proposal that lies there, which will be in line with the intentions and what everyone has said from this speaker on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e573	I must also note that these are positive things here when we are dealing with the matter today. Firstly, there has been a legal reflection from the top experts we have on EU and EEA law, which shows that, in relation to what has been demonstrated before, we have a considerable room for action. The second thing we record with satisfaction is that there is considerable scepticism and concern, at least from this Council of States, about the directive. That's good. Then we hope that the government's relevant government councils will pair their legs and ensure a consistent view that the Stortinget will get a thorough treatment of privacy before we do anything else. Most people are actually busy with this. For this reason, we have shown in the submission, and I refer again, to the data protection study carried out by the Data Protection Supervisor in 2008, i.e. this year, which shows that many have heard about the directive, many believe that it is untapped with long storage times also with new data that is not stored today, and many are concerned that the information that is to be stored in the directive will be misused. So people are completely concerned about privacy in general, and they are also specifically concerned about and concerned about the Data Storage Directive. The Progress Party rejects the EU's desire to reflect the principle of non-commitment, the introduction of a mechanism that all consider to be potential offenders, to be introduced in Norway. We reject the EU's desire to suspect its own population. We reject that fear should be used as a tool to guide more of the lives of individuals. We attach great importance to the right of the citizens of a state governed by law to keep something to themselves, and that neither police nor other public authorities should have the right to search anywhere at any time. We believe that privacy in a legal state should and must have strong protection. There is no doubt that this protection has been and is under intense attack. Therefore, all the parties at Stortinget have concluded on the establishment of the Data Protection Commission. But it becomes strange in many ways, not to say meaningless, if we are going to go further and attack privacy without first settling the status and getting widely processed by the Privacy Commission in a separate message to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e582	The representative Hoksrud wondered what the representative of Greece was afraid of. The representative of Greece is not afraid of anything. He just wants to follow the normal procedure in the relationship between staging and government. When the Council of State has so clearly assured that she wants to put this matter before the Storting if it is relevant, I settle for it and gladly take the broad and full debate if that should happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e587	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3649]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e603	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who ask for the floor in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e610	In motion for a resolution, no. 110 for 2007-2008, proposals are made for the Government to submit, as soon as practicable, a plan for the overall and completed deployment of E18 from Winterbro in Akershus to the national border. Proposals are also made for the project to include full State funding. The majority of the Committee sees the need for rational progress in upgrading this route, but the same majority, all except the Progress Party, believe that this matter needs to be seen in the context of the treatment of the National Transport Plan 2010-2019, so that the development can be seen in conjunction with other initiatives. The majority therefore propose that the proposal be annexed to the Protocol. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is promoting proposals in line with the proposal for a representative, and I assume that the party itself presents its views. An overall opposition is asked by the Government to present a case on Public Private Cooperation in the transport sector. I'll go into this in more detail. As the observations show, the opposition considers that it is unfortunate that large-scale continuous road projects in Norway are being completed in pieces and divided. The opposition believes that this is a very rational and costly way of building roads. In view of the experience gained with OPS so far, the opposition believes that a person should seek solutions that give greater scope to builders to make better use of material, labour and financial resources. The opposition has also noted the evaluation report of the Transport Economic Institute concerning the OPS model. The opposition therefore requests the Government to file a case on OPS and any other non-traditional project financing on the basis of the report of the Transport Economic Institute. Before I go further, I will address the proposal to which we are co-rapporteurs. As I said, the Christian People's Party agrees with the majority of the Committee on the specific matter raised in the proposal for a representative - it should be dealt with in the context of the national transport plan. But on behalf of the Christian People's Party, I would like to comment a little more than this single project. When the Christian People's Party, along with the rest of the opposition, calls for alternative forms of funding and non-traditional forms of organisation, such as: project financing and OPS, is because we in the Christian People's Party believe new approaches are needed for better transport. A boost is needed for transport in Norway! The sector suffers from a lack of resources and unforeseeable framework conditions. The result is poor roads, failing collective services and start-ups that are not being completed. It affects both business and individuals, and the Christian People's Party takes this seriously. The Christian People's Party aims at an efficient, accessible, safe and environmentally friendly transport system that promotes regional development. It requires new grips. Financing must be long-term and predictable. Today, both investment and maintenance have been identified as priorities in the annual government budgets. It gives too poor predictability for long-term projects. Interruption of expansions as a result of re-priorities to the annual government budget is not effective, and irritating to people affected. The Christian People's Party will have a funding system in which planned and started projects can be implemented more fully in the context. It is therefore necessary to provide for new funding opportunities so that the pace of investment on both the road and the track can be increased. It is also necessary to take more structural measures in relation to the organisation of the levels. The railway works, the State Road Service and the Coastal Works should be given greater freedom of action to perform their tasks. Acts of conduct should have the same opportunity as a private developer to implement projects effectively, by making the Railway Agency, the State Road Service and the Coastal Works State Enterprises. In addition, the Christian People's Party believes that a system must be set up in which the state makes loan funds available for commercial projects. The operation of the loans must take the form of State budget appropriations and other forms of financing. Finally, it's time to do something about the great lag in maintenance on both road and track. In the case of new development projects, much more so must be done to ensure that improvements can be made in the context. I therefore look forward to examining the national transport plan where this project will also receive its important treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e636	The representative Jan Sahl has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e639	The route from Winterbro in Akershus to the Swedish border is one of the most mentioned projects in Sweden, at least in the case of promises of upgrading and expansion. Unfortunately, there are no new roads built on promises. No, if you're going to have a built-up road, you're going to have to go with money to make sure the roads actually come. For too long, this road, as so many other important tribal roads in this country have suffered from celebrations, hopes that they will be included in action programmes, but disappointment over never being given means to enable the celebrations to be realised - non-binding celebrations that are likely to come in election years and be shown on television. In this case, there is no doubt that all the promises are in stark contrast to the progress the project has made so far, not least in relation to the further progress of the project. In January 2008, the project stopped because of a lack of funds to ensure continued progress in development. To complete the development, there is about one missing. DKr 1.2 billion. Accelerating development will have very positive effects on individuals using the road, but not least for industry and transport, a holistic and accelerated development will be very important. So far, the development of the route has been dependent on the annual appropriations. This has meant that it has taken a long time and probably also resulted in extra costs, because it has not been possible to ensure continuous and effective progress in development. The Progress Party will point out that building up road projects piece by piece and division is a very little efficient way of building out, as we have also shown in our previous proposal to plan, project and expand the whole route on E6 between Gardermoen and Otta together with full state funding. Unfortunately, that proposal was the only one we had at the time. We are very disappointed that the majority, despite all the long-term promises, are so passive in terms of speeding up and not being able to participate in ensuring full development of nationally important sections of the main road network, and that it is done immediately where there is room for this. The extension of the Winterbro section in Akershus to the Swedish border must be extended as a comprehensive and comprehensive project with full state funding. There are no counter-arguments against this which can be attributed to weight. The progress party will also point to approx. 25 pst. all rural traffic in and out of the country makes use of this route. For us in the Progress Party, it is important to establish solutions that ensure predictable frameworks, which in turn ensure the rapid and comprehensive development of road projects. There is a debate about adjusted and new forms of funding in the transport sector in order to provide money for more projects and faster deployment and in a way that provides clear and predictable funding. One possibility is to establish a state-owned company, as the representative Sortevik asked the Minister for Transport about recently, and where the answer emphatically stated that there are no rules to prevent the establishment of a public limited liability company responsible for the construction of a project and to finance the loan. The development of efficient, safe and environmentally friendly roads has proved very profitable to invest in, and an acceleration of overall and continuous development will therefore be very profitable. This will realise the positive effects on growth and value creation much faster than today’s allocations allow. We are in a situation where we are moving towards the greatest surplus of time in the state budget. Over the course of the year, hundreds of billions of dollars roll into the Norwegian state's account and are placed in foreign securities. In Norway, it has now been confirmed that there is an increasing capacity in the construction industry to step up the implementation of road projects. There is a deficit of SEK 1.2 billion to complete the entire route from the capital to the Swedish border as an efficient, safe and environmentally friendly road. The progress party will not spend this money. On the contrary, the Progress Party will invest them in profitability, prosperity and safety of life and health at a return that, in our view, far surpasses alternative locations. The need exists, the capacity exists and the funds are clear. Only the willingness to build infrastructure is lacking. I hope the majority in this Chamber today support the proposals of the Progress Party in the matter. I'll take this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e667	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e670	In Document No: The 8 proposal is requested by the Government, as soon as practicable, to submit a plan for a comprehensive and completed deployment of E18 Winterbro in Akershus-Riksgren/Erje and with full state funding. A number of the Committee believe that the realities of this document No. The 8 proposal is to be dealt with as part of the bulk treatment of incoming NTP. I'm happy with that. Through the treatment of St. Prp. No 79 for 2006-2007, the Stortinget concluded a revised approach to the finalisation of the Eastfold Package. This plugin has made it possible to present the project Krosby-Buttonstad. Work started in 2007 and the project will be completed in 2010. In the NTP, the project was completed after 2015. The forecast national transport plan notification for the period 2010-2019 will be submitted by the end of the year. Investment plans in this period will be central to the message. The Government aims to include investment frameworks for the further development of E18 through Østfold in the Transport Communication, in line with other important actions and projects on the Tribal Road Network. The national transport plan is precisely capable of assessing different routes and giving priority to the most important ones for development in the coming decade. The members of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left propose that a matter of public private cooperation, OPS, be submitted in the transport sector as a matter of urgency on the basis of the evaluation report of the Transport Economic Institute. In St. prp. No 1 for 2007-2008 is a warning that the Government will present to the Storing its own assessment of whether and, where appropriate, how such schemes should be used in the future. I see it as natural that this is part of a national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e683	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e686	I note that the Minister for Transport sees it as natural that the remaining parcels should be assessed in the context of the national transport plan, as it is also called in the suspension. So that's what the Minister of Transport has to do. Prior to the 2005 elections, there was a strong focus especially in the Inner Eastfold and in the media on whether this path should actually be completed during this period we are now in. In 2005, the party leader, Åslaug Haga, together with the first candidate from the Eastfold Centerparti, wrote a guarantee in the locality that if the Central Party gained power, the Senterparti would ensure that the entire road section was completed during the current period. Does the Minister think that the elections that the Central Party has actually given to the people of Inner Eastfold have been fulfilled and is she comfortable with the result that we have so far, which is thus a lack of results?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e693	If people in Eastfold and the rest of the country had given so many votes to the Center Party that we had multiples in this room, one could ask that question. We don't have that. We also have a cost development in the sector that has caused many projects, not only E18, to have to be shifted in time regardless of the framework put at the disposal of the Government, which far exceeded that of the previous government, but not the majority of them in this Chamber, believed in the treatment of the national transport plan. The previous government strongly blamed an increase in the number of frames. It was called airlocks and monopoly money, but we've done it. This government has given a boost to trade, including trade in Eastfold, after a very good dialogue with the chairman of the county and the political plurality. I'm quite proud of that. So we get to work on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e700	From the Christian People's Party, we have repeatedly given commendation to the Minister of Transport for being offensive and for taking credit for fulfilling the commitments given on appropriations in the national transport plan. It looks like the minister might be able to reach a goal. And yet we see that for different reasons, projects have to be stopped, new cost assessments have to be made, and machines have to be taken down and later started again. We have such a project in Finnmark, where you now have to stop because you don't have the money to move on. I understand that the Minister will come back to this in connection with the treatment of the national transport plan, but I would nevertheless ask: does the Minister for Transport see the need to try out some new forms of funding in order to avoid a costly stop if not necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e710	The important thing to avoid stagnation is that the budgetary framework is high enough. If I haven't read the error, the Christian People's Party in its 2008 alternative budget would have cut 130 million. kr in maintenance of highways and 50 mill. kr in investment on national roads. Then I thought it was quite free of the Christian People's Party to claim that they wanted a lift on transportation. It doesn't help to come up with financial loan arrangements if you cut the ordinary budget at the same time. What this government has done is to create a decent development in transport by giving a boost by increasing the budgetary framework. These are permanent arrangements. A loan scheme for a single project will be a scheme linked to the individual project, which then falls away. The government's policy is to raise the frame. That's what I hope we'll continue to do. It's a better way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e715	I note that the Council of State believes that one cannot trust a central party leader unless the Central Party receives 50 pst. by the votes cast. I think it's a little interesting, because the party leader of the Labour Party, the Prime Minister, was also in Eastfold with almost the same wording as the Council of State. The Prime Minister said it was important to have proper progress, and that there was continuity in the projects. I don't think those who have been busy doing something about E18 through Eastfold have experienced that it has been predictable. Governments were very concerned with predictability and framework conditions, that there had to be predictability there. I'm not sure if you feel that everything has been predictable and that it has been continuity. Because of crises that have arisen, one has managed to find and scrape together some extra money, but there are now three parcels for approx. NOK 1.2 billion that remains. Is it, then, that it is not in keeping with a prime minister and party leader of the largest party in government, and a council of states from the same party as party leader Haga as Minister of Transport, to be able to meet the electoral commitments of the two parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e722	This government has done much more for the transportation of this country than any other government has ever done incontinuously. One must at least return to Opseth's time to find the corresponding highlight on the transport sector. The party of progress has definitely not contributed in the years of their budgetary cooperation and participation and decisively influenced the budget of this country, so I thought it was free of the opposition to run it during a process. The Progress Party knows that the proposal today is a demonstration proposal. One knows before one suggests that this doesn't get a multiple because, fortunately, in this room, there's a clean multiple that keeps us going to have a national transport plan and that the priorities have to come there. They will, and then this important road will be given priority. I would also like to say that the reason why the road has been slightly backward is that the whole of Østfold has been gathering that E6 has been the most important road. E6 will be completed in 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e729	I would like to have a debate on what is free, but I believe that the citizens and businesses of the inner and large parts of Eastfold feel that it is the party of the Council of State and the government apparatus that is actually very free. They came with clear choices, and then they managed to do their utmost to run away from them. I registered that the Government's response to my first line on how the Central Party had intended to follow up the election promises was that the Central Party did not have a purely majority. Does it mean, in other words, that it is the Workers' Party and the SV, with which the Centre Party participates in the government, which is holding back? Don't they want to have the progress the Center Party made in elections on - a progress for which the Central Party obviously does not get a majority in the Government? Does the government actually confirm that this is a lonely struggle for the Center Party in the government offices, while the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party are fighting against the necessary means to complete the E18?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e736	When I'm confronted with a pure pitch from the Center Party, they're responsible for the Center Party's account, and we're working on what we can to satisfy them. I'm very pleased that we've managed to find the solutions that we've made, both for E6, which will be completed immediately, and which has our first priority in Eastfold, and for E18. Unlike other states that are not allowed to upgrade any of their tribal roads through the county, I actually thought that Østfold has got good solutions and good counting. That doesn't mean we're happy until we've finished E18. I also have very good contact with my Swedish colleague. We're also working to do something about the road on the other side, including for E6, which is maybe the road where it's actually the most left of the Swedish government. We have a strong focus on the road. We work tirelessly independently of criticism, and we will achieve results that will also make the inhabitants of Eastfold happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e747	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e752	Today, when we are discussing a proposal from the Progress Party for progress in financing and completion of the E18, this is not a demonstration proposal, on the contrary, which the Council of State in a previous line change had to offer. It is important that we, as elected representatives of the Stortinget, actually try to follow the promises we made to elections. I am absolutely convinced that the people of the inner Eastfold are quite tired of all the broken election vows we have seen. We have recorded that the Prime Minister and Minister of Transport were in Inner Eastfold just before the elections a few months ago. Today's government parties came before the 2005 elections with clear promises. But what the population and the business community in Inner Eastfold are left with are several parcels that are not finished and that have no guarantee that they will be completed in line with the plan. We are reasonably sure that they will not. In addition, this will now be pushed into the next national transport plan. So we don't know what's going to happen to the rest of the expansion. This is not really an Eastfold case. That's why it's a little sad that there might be Eastfold representatives who have to show the greatest commitment here. This is one of the main road sections for AS Norway. For business and the population, this is an incredibly important road map. I assume that everyone is aware of it, since you've got so many election promises. There is probably hardly a road map in this country that, through the media and various games from all kinds of politicians, has been given more choices about completion. Even written guarantees have been provided to local Smälenes Newspaper, but these guarantees have obviously not mattered at all. Then you talk about finding other alternative ways of financing. There is an increasing pressure on local politicians to thin the car lists even more for tolls. So this is what you do in the richest country in the world. Only this year, we're most likely to get $80 billion more in oil revenue than we expected in December. We're rich! If there's something that would make sense to invest in here in this world's richest country, it's infrastructure. Can't we at least get the road sections we've started? There are still lots that we're probably not going to finish in many years. In the worst case, they will now be pushed out first to the next national transport plan, and we risk that parts of these parcels may be pushed further into that transport plan period. This is simply to keep options and people fooled. But I think the wise people in Inner Eastfold have recorded this. I think they register and see who is actually working and on to get the necessary funding in place. So the drivers and the population in Eastfold have taken a lot of the bill. After all, the government has not yet fulfilled on behalf of the state the promises they actually made when they were able to persuade a majority of politicians and residents in Inner Eastfold to go for tolls, and the blackmail it actually brings.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e763	E18 through Eastfold is an important road map for Norway. 25 pst. by inland traffic in and out of the country is just E18. It's important to Eastfold and our business. Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg said, according to Smälenes Avis, when he opened the parcel on 1 September 2007: ‘This is a very important path and creates both increased efficiency and increased security’. This road is also important as a local road. Therefore, with such high traffic density, it is important to bring up the speed of construction in relation to the road safety perspective. In Eastfold we stand together on Eastfold package 1 and also phase 2 - first E6. But now we have to get ahead of E18. The E18 has received many promises. In May 2005, we received a written promise from party leader Åslaug Haga that E18 through Østfold would be completed in 2009. Then we have one year left. We know that the promise doesn't last. We are currently recording that the Council of State Navarsete believes that we as Eastern folds should be satisfied, because we have got good solutions compared to many others. But we're not satisfied. We've got promises, and we need this way. Councillor Navarsete has given us a promise himself. On 18 October 2005, the Council of State ordered projects to be completed. This is a promise that the Council of State itself has given to the inhabitants of Eastfold, and it is such promises that we expect now to be completed in the national transport plan. This promise must be the most important principle of the National Council of Navarces when she is to present the National Transport Plan for the Storting in the late fall - because if this promise does not apply either, we, as citizens of Eastfold, no longer know what to believe in by the promises made by government teams.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e781	In Eastfold, a lot is actually happening on the road sector. In a few months we have four-fielded E6 from Akershus’ border to Svinesund and new Svinesundsbru. All of us are impatient after things happen even faster on the E18. But it was three years ago it was really gloomy - with the previous government. Then we had a long-term plan that did not even include the construction of E18 in Østfold before 2015. It was a long way ahead. Those were bad signals. This government has managed to provide and continue this path parsell for parsell. Not one planter has stood. They have moved on when one parcel was finished and a new one has started. It is to be commended by the Council of State, because this has actually become good. In the meantime, we've also made the road much more expensive, because we've expanded it from two fields to four fields on distances. Now we're dealing with a parcel that costs almost $1 billion, and it's going to end in 2010. So it's been said here that there have been election vows. Then the Central Party will answer for itself, and I will answer for the Prime Minister and the Labour Party. We wrote in the paper that we wanted a forage within the period, and we got that. There's no one who can come and say that we haven't kept our promises about a replacement of E18. I think we have to stand on, because this is a very important way. There's no reason when we've come as far as we've now done, that we're not going to finish the last miles, so that we get a road like both those who live in the district, and not least business is served. 25 pst. of all traffic out of the country actually goes over the E18. But I feel sure that this is now entering the national transport plan in the next period, and then we are going to get it done properly. In connection with the Østfold package 1, we made an agreement that we would have 50 pst. tolls and that the State had to pay 50 pst. There's nothing else to say now that it's cracking.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e796	When you have a bad case, it says that the best defense is to attack - on the questioner. That's how I experienced it in my reply with the minister. I asked the minister a question, did not get an answer, but an attack that is not at all near the truth. I am now repeating my question first, whether the Minister of Transport sees a need to look at some new forms of funding in the context of the treatment of the national transport plan. That was my question, and I want an answer to that. Then the minister claims that the Christian People's Party in the last budget cut significant amounts. It's not near the truth. We did some re-priorities within the transport budget. We moved some funds to racial protection. We moved some funds to the middle parts. We moved some funds into reward schemes to put a Christian People's Party mark on the budget. We didn't take away a single penny. On the contrary, we introduced some fresh funds from other budget chapters, not from the society's budget. So I want the minister to take back the statements that the Christian People's Party cut off in the budget. We have delivered exactly the same heads that this government has provided, and on several occasions we have boasted that the Minister and Government have managed to meet the NTP. We want to be asked to be accused of something that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e803	I record that the Council of State ran one of its favourite numbers, namely to repeat political results from the previous period. So let's remind each other that in the last period, the results of the Central Party on the transport sector were zero - zero, zero, zero. Then we register good contributions from two representatives of the Christian People's Party, but we also register in the Progress Party that they do not vote for our proposal. With a special address to one of the two representatives of the Christian People's Party, namely, the representative Jan Sahl, we are interested to record that he used part of his contribution to talk about new funding methods. Then I have to say that in our party too, the Progress Party, we rejoice over reverse souls. Indeed, for a period of time, the Progress Party has been quite vigorous in making proposals for just new funding tools. We have made three proposals for representatives, including: Document No 8:22 for 2007-2008, relating to the road sector. As far as I remember, the representative Sahl had posts, but he voted against turning Vegvesen into a public limited company, which could raise loans to expand with clear funding and predictable financing. We have proposed the same in the railway sector, Document No. 8:27 for 2007-2008. The representative, Jan Sahl, had the floor and was very opposed to such a solution for the Railway Agency, and he voted against our proposal to convert the Railway Agency into a state-owned company that can borrow to operate continuously with clear and predictable financing. The last of the three were similar for the Coastal Works, Document No. 8:79. It was probably a week ago. Then the representative Jan Sahl did not have the floor, but he voted against it. It was with interest that we noticed the headline in a current newspaper, the Evening Post, the following day, where the same representative enthusiastically explained the new position of the Christian People's Party, the newest position, with the very solutions of the three proposals that the representative has so clearly rejected. But we in the Progress Party continue to make good input and good proposals related to predictable, clear and long-term funding to build both roads and railways, and also the ship's trail, faster. We feel a little safer now that representatives from the Christian People's Party will also give us their support. We enjoy the reverse souls.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e819	I asked for the word in connection with an interpretation of what I said that the project started should be completed. This government is doing just that. We are completing the projects that have been started. We have also done so in Eastfold. The project loads that were agreed to be started will be completed. And otherwise, as in the West Corridor, where we complete the whole railway corridor instead of waiting and delaying and letting it go in the long run, as they did, those who had the control before us. There's a big difference. This does not mean that an entire tribal route, e.g. from Oslo to Trondheim, is completed coherently, although we now have the route running north of the Gardermoen. It's pathetic, yes, absolutely, but that's not what I left in my statement that the start of the project should be completed. I just have to clarify it. In my main answer, I said that the government will come back to the question of alternative funding, and that would be my answer, no matter how many tens of times different representatives and parties ask me about this in the future. There is no other response from the State Council. In retrospect, my short answer will be just that and nothing more. We've had so many of these rounds in Stortinget, and I don't have anything to add until we get to NTP. The representative of Sahl wants an excuse for what I said. I'm going to clarify what I said. It wasn't expected that Sahl would say that they were prioritizing middle parts, racial protection, collective and railway -- for a total of 195 million. kr -- but it's equally solid that they cut 180 million. on the highways and took 30,5 million. extra in exchange for the Fly train, total 210 million. So they took out more than they put in traffic. They re-prioritized, and it's honest and okay, but it's certainly not a strengthening of road construction, which is the theme here today, and which is relevant to debt financing, for which the representative Sahl has raised the tab today. It is then relevant to look at what he did on the national road investments and on the domestic road investments. I guess the other projects aren't about to finance the loan. Speaking of E18, I believe, as it has been said here from others, that it is relevant what the Christian People's Party had for ambitions when they put themselves in government. Kua should remember that she has our calves.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e832	I won't extend the debate much. I just want to say that I stand firm that it was re-priorities we did within the transport budget, not cut. Then I would say to the Progress Party that the Christian People's Party does not have problems with reverse souls, on the contrary. We'll take that as an honorary designation. I just want to say to the Progress Party that we have had a long process in the party in connection with programme processing. We're actually dependent on getting this confirmed in our programs. In addition, we are running a process towards the national transport plan. Furthermore, as regards how we have voted on the proposals of the Progress Party, I would say that there is a difference in substance between what we have proposed and what the Progress Party proposes. The Progress Party keeps saying: only with state funding. About that way the Progress Party says it in any proposal. But we have said: government financing, debt financing, combined with external financing. That is the main reason why we have not been able to vote in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e841	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3649]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e849	The increase shall now be added to the case No. 1-5.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e856	During the debate, Mr Nistad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘New Section 13(b) of the Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy shall be replaced by the following: in addition to the committees referred to in Section 10, a Security Committee shall also be appointed. The role of the Security Committee is to discuss with the Government important issues relating to the country’s internal security and anti-terrorism work, contingency plans, as well as operational security measures vis-à-vis departments, Directorates, departments, institutions and officials. Such discussion should take place before important decisions are taken. The Security Committee shall follow the measures taken in the internal security and anti-terrorism area under the mandates and appropriations granted and shall monitor the exercise of the government’s powers in this area. The Security Committee shall consist of the President of Storting as Vice-President and Vice-Chairman, the group leaders of the parties with second officers as alternates, and the lead trio of the Judicial and Defence Committee. The Chairman shall convene the Committee whenever he deems it necessary or when requested by the Prime Minister, the Minister of Justice or one third of the members of the Committee. Negotiations within the Security Committee shall be kept secret, unless otherwise expressly provided. The same shall apply to joint meetings of this Committee with other committees. The convening of committee meetings shall also be secret. The Security Committee may also meet officials to provide information and answer questions, together with members of the Government.’;» An alternative will be to vote between this proposal and that of the presidency. The Presidency had cancelled: Document No 8:30 [[2007-2008]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e909	During the debate, Mr Ellingsen presented three proposals on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to launch a police study based on the model of the defence study. A wide-ranging selection of representatives from, among others, will be set up. The Police and National Police College, the Police College, the Central Special Units such as PST and Kripos, the Defence and Civil Protection Agency, as well as other key actors responsible for, and knowledge of, security and preparedness.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government requests that the mandate for police studies be to carry out a thorough analysis of key developments nationally and internationally up to 2030, affecting the duties and personnel and resource needs of the Norwegian police. Against this background, the sample shall make recommendations on the future size of the Norwegian police, what police tasks should be, and propose measures to ensure more efficient cross-departmental use of resources.’» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the police study to be started this spring and to be completed in the autumn of 2009’.» Alternatives will be sought between these proposals and those of the Committee. The Committee had set up: Document No 8:92 Proposals by the representatives of the Magistrates Erna Solberg, Elisabeth Aspaker, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland and André Oktay Dahl for a police study to define and build a greater police force in the fight against crime in the local environment, at national level and across national borders - annexed to the Protocol. [[2007-2008]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e933	President! I have informed the pulpit that the Left will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e938	The Christian People's Party also supports the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e957	During the debate Per Sandberg put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Stortinget, the Government asks the Swedish Government to present its own case to the Swedish Government on the status and protection of data protection based on the Commission’s report as soon as this report is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e998	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Jan Sahl on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Proposal No. 2, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e1038	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests that a case of public-private cooperation in the transport sector be brought to the attention of the Government as a matter of urgency on the basis of the evaluation report of the Transport Economic Institute.’ [[OPS]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11.ana.ud1476e1088	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone want a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
