ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e35	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative, Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e44	Unfortunately, we see a social development characterised by increasing violence, more violence, killing and assault — a series of unfortunate events that help to deprive the inhabitants of this country of security and contribute to a reduction in quality of life and a great deal of fear. It is also true that in many populace areas around the country, there are sometimes no police personnel. Of course, it means that if serious incidents occur in these areas, the time of evacuation is long, yes too long, which in the worst case has serious consequences for those affected. So far the answer from the current government has been that they have increased the admission to the Police College. But it doesn't solve the acute police situation in the short term. On the contrary, the police themselves have launched a series of measures that can help to resolve this very serious situation and help to get security back into the streets and outside the homes of people. Then my question to the Prime Minister is: what will the government do in the short term to get more police in the streets, and to get the security back to the people?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e55	I agree with Mr Jensen that security is very important. It is important that people can travel in Norway, in cities, throughout the country, and feel secure. There's a lot of things we have to do to help that happen. Prevention, less inequalities – many things contribute to creating a safe society. Of course, it is also important that we have a strong police force and that crime policy works. That's why the government has done a lot, and we're going to do a lot. One thing we've done is to strengthen the police. The police budget has increased by NOK 2 billion, there are more police officers now than ever before, and as late as just before Christmas, we increased the police budget in the new era by another SEK 52 million. kr, which frees resources in the police districts of active police work, inter alia. by providing funds to several civil servants to enable police officers to carry out police work. Then we've strengthened the police's ability to make use of the money, by putting a considerable effort on, among other things. increased use of DNA tracks. It makes it much easier to reveal crimes. It is extended access to DNA samples, and an additional 100 million has been allocated. Dr, which actively contributes to the reduction of crime in Norway. The third thing we've done is to make sure that you get a record high at the Police College. There are now more policemen in the streets. Then we've taken hold of the settlement queue. The record queue has now been reduced by 80 pst. People who have been convicted are being imprisoned. And even if they're further away, the payroll is reduced. So we do a lot of things. And we see that, although there are brutal examples of crime in Norway — and there is no excuse for that — it is fortunate that the overall rate of crime in Norway is falling.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e70	It's no wonder that the settlement queues go down, when the prisoners are released earlier, and the use of increased home soning is being made. But that's not what I was going to ask. I hear the Prime Minister is very pleased with the government's efforts, despite the fact that we are in a situation of acute lack of police. According to the Prime Minister, we can now anticipate more police resources in 2009, and we can assume that security is coming back quite quickly. Since the Prime Minister is so clear that all the measures he believes the Government has implemented in 2008 will work, I would like to get an estimate from the Prime Minister on how many more police resources he believes will be released in 2009 as a result of the Government's actions, and how quickly this means that security will return in everyday life to people.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e79	After a slightly low number of trained policemen in the last growing-up period, we've stepped up every year. This means that in this period, nearly 650 more policemen will be trained than in the previous metropolitan period. It gives more police in the streets, when we have in addition increased the appropriations for the police districts and provided more civil servants, so that police officers can do police work. Just how many more policemen we're going to employ in 2010, depending on our budget in 2010. The budget for 2009 has been adopted and will increase the number of police posts and efforts, both by improving the organisation of the police, by more civil servants and by increasing appropriations. It is the case that crime in Norway is falling. The number of reported violent crimes has declined from 310,000 to 270 000. The winning crime goes down, and the number of rough lines goes down. This does not mean that we have abolished crime in Norway. There's still a lot of crime, and still a lot of messed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e90	There will be follow-up questions – first Jan Arild Ellingsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e93	It's interesting to hear the Prime Minister explain the reality of the country, and that he's happy to register. A short time ago, the police chief in Oslo went out and warned the population not to stay in the lower part of Karl Johan and parts of Grünerløkka because of the crime there. It was referred to violence episodes, to crime scenes, and so on. Personally, I think it's bad when parts of our capital are partially shut down by ordinary citizens because the criminals rule there. And since the prime minister is satisfied with the state of things, is he also pleased that the chief of police sees the need to warn the population against staying in certain parts of the capital?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e102	I have noticed that there is a technique that the opposition very often uses when they ask me questions, that they claim that I have said that I am satisfied, when I have not said that I am satisfied. I haven't used the word satisfied, even if you say I have. What I have said is that we have done a lot, that we have provided far more money, more police and more effective investigation methods than under the previous government, supported by the Progress Party. That doesn't mean we're satisfied. That doesn't mean that we don't think it's much done, that we don't need to do any more. And we'll do more. As far as Oslo is concerned, the Oslo Police have been strengthened, given more jobs and more money. But the Oslo police have also asked that the search policy be tightened up here in the city, and I notice that the Progress Party does not listen to the police when they bring that advice.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e113	Elisabeth Aspaker – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e117	We have a Minister of Justice who has been high and low in the media with a lot of playback for three years, without being able to care for one of the central tasks of the state: a strong police force that can ensure the security of the population. The 52 million. kr that the Prime Minister stands by and boasts of here, is going to cover additional expenditure on passports and additional expenditure on violence alarms. When you ask the police outside, no one can understand that it means better operating budgets for them. We now see the consequences of a weakened police force, with fewer cases to the courts, and we see that the number of drug cases shows a dramatic decline. The Prime Minister spoke of strengthening the police. Yes, but new working time agreements have also been adopted which cut out 120 posts last year and new 30 posts for the new year, without plans to replace them. I think the Prime Minister now has to explain how it might be that we have a Minister of Justice who has actually failed to fulfil the most important task of the state, namely to ensure the security of the inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e130	We have a very skilled Minister of Justice who is doing a very important job and who has provided the police with considerable increased resources — and has also ensured that we have more effective methods of investigation, including: by significantly increased use of DNA evidence and DNA tests. In addition, he has made sure that we build new prisons, so that the settlement queue has been dramatically reduced. That doesn't mean he's satisfied, that doesn't mean I'm satisfied, but that means we're strengthening the crime scene considerably more than when the Right sat in the government offices. It's an honest thing that the Right wants more to the police, but it's a little funny to hear that black paint, when it's proven that we're spending a lot more on fighting crime now than when the Right was responsible for the same sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e137	Bjørg Tørersdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e140	The Christian People's Party is concerned with the relationship there is between drugs and crime. More police in the streets help – to all intents and purposes. The Christian People's Party supports the strengthening of the police, not least the visible police, but one must state that more police do not help against the causes of violence and crime. Workers' Party's health policy spokesman, Jan Bøhler, has said that liberal spicy policy is the main reason why it is unsafe to walk in Oslo's streets. He wants a more stringent alcohol policy, and he wants, among other things, have stricter opening times for service points. Is the Prime Minister behind what Jan Bøler has said? And when will we have a new and more stringent alcohol policy in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e147	I believe that the representative Mr Tørersdal addresses a very important question and a very important issue, because when we are going to fight crime, which is a very serious social sin that creates insecurity, we need to be concerned both with combating crime, crime itself, with the police, and with combating the causes of crime, by preventing it. We have to do both. There is no contradiction between being involved in a strong police force and having a strong focus on prevention. On the contrary, the police themselves are concerned with prevention. Then there are many things that have to be done. Being dedicated to creating a society with small social differences is also a contribution to reducing crime. For this reason, Norway has seen relatively low levels of crime internationally. Russ is a major cause of crime. Most of the violent crime is committed by intoxicated persons. It is the municipalities that are responsible for the search policy. I mean, we're still going to have it like this. I have noticed that the municipalities that have tightened up have experienced a reduction in crime, and I believe that it is a challenge for the Municipality of Oslo especially to look at its gift policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e156	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e159	The theme is how we can get more police force, more police people – now. I'll give you three examples. In the Dalane, Rogaland police district, the money is needed to pay the people who want to work – that is, there is a deficit in the operating budget. In Hordaland Police District, it's a pioneer project to pursue senior policy. Seniors will work longer in the police, but they're not allowed to do it, because there's no money for it. In Oslo, the recruitment of 40 civilians would have liberated 40 policemen who in part have no meaning in the District Courts today. This is a simple grip that would bring hundreds of policemen into the streets quite quickly – now. So my question is, will the Prime Minister be so concrete and so practical that he makes sure that the operating budgets are such that we avoid what we see in Dalane, that we avoid what we see in Hordaland, where seniors are not allowed to work because you don't have money for it, and that we avoid what we see in Oslo, where high-educated police people sit in the courts, while civilians could replace them? Small money can bring great results and many policemen. Does the Prime Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e172	As far as the police sector is concerned, I think we see the same thing as in very many other areas where public authorities organise important societal tasks, and that is that there is a question of getting more money and spending more money in a better way, by renewing the public sector. Both are important. First of all, there's more money for the police, but it's obvious that we also need a better organization of the police. I do not know the specific examples taken up by the representative Dørum, well enough to say yes or no, but I believe that the thinking is quite correct. It is an exciting and right approach, including: the use of more civilians in the police, so that police officers can do police work and not perform civilian tasks. It's a thought I totally agree with. The fact that several seniors can stand longer is also a thought I fully agree with. I would rather discuss with the Left and the Dørum how we can best do this, as well as how we can prevent crime – in the Government Crime Prevention Council, in which I look forward to working with the representative of Dørum.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e183	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e186	I would like to switch to the theme that I think concerns us all at the start of a new year, namely that we have still not made the banking markets or the economic systems work. I note that the Prime Minister today, on the first page of the Business Day, says that the situation is scary. The situation is not just creepy. It is very dangerous, because, almost seven weeks after we started banking in Norway, we have not yet received a functioning lending market for Norwegian companies. It is still the case that most large companies in Norway say that they barely get a loan, or if they are offered a loan, it is loans with interest that are far above what we are discussing in terms of people's mortgage interest rates. The lending market is empty for investment in research, investment in environmental measures, investment in new jobs. Then I think it's time for the Prime Minister to do something other than comment on this by saying it's scary. When the opposition and position met last week, this was one of the major themes that was put on the table: we have to get banking measures that work, because the bond market is dried out, and the banks dare not borrow out, it seems. Then we need to know why it does not work, and what action is needed. Then my clear question to the Prime Minister: When will he stop commenting on the fact that it is scary, and actually show action, make sure that the Storting and others get good enough information so that we can prevent profitable businesses from going bankrupt in the long term due to a short-term financial crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e197	The single measure, which is now the best and most important for the Norwegian economy, is lower interest rates. The lower interest rate is what the Government has been most concerned about facilitating this fall, because lower interest rates seem so good to counteract that the Norwegian economy is being too hard hit by the international financial crisis. The interest rate works well for several reasons. Low interest rates have a very strong effect. It's important for households, it's important for the industry. One percentage point is worth about 7 billion dollars in increased purchasing power in the economy. Therefore, interest rates are a strong tool. The second reason why low interest rates are important is that they hit those who are hardest hit, not least industry and many private companies and those who are struggling with private housing debts. The third reason why low interest rates are important is that they work fast. Therefore, interest rates have been lowered and the Bank of Norway has an interest rate meeting today. We've also seen that the interest rates on the money market, those on which the banks relate, are reduced. So the one, and most important, measure this fall has been lower interest rates. It seems fast, and it hits where it's going to hit. And it's also important that the banking system itself works. Significant measures have also been taken to make private banks work. We've created our own bonds for them to provide them with security, so they can get money that they can borrow. In addition, a separate arrangement has been made for the smaller banks of the Bank of Norway. That's where it lent $12 billion to 89 smaller banks. It's a contribution that makes them get more money, and that the banking system works less abnormally than it would otherwise have done. In addition, we have implemented significant measures through state banks, through export credit – additional SEK 50 billion in direct loans from the State Treasury, the Municipal Bank and the State Guarantee Institute, GIEK. These state instruments are very good that we have. It is good that the state banks are not liquidated in time. Now we need them to help the banking.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e211	It's absolutely right that we've all agreed that lower interest rates are important. It is such that lower interest rates for people in this country act as tax havens. It gives more economic power. However, it is a challenge whose lower interest rate does not result in loans being granted to Norwegian companies. In fact, this does not reduce interest rates as an incentive for jobs, as an incentive for investment. If you have a loan, it works, but not if you need a loan. That's what the reports that come in now indicate. It doesn't work towards those companies that need a loan. Then my repeated question is, because we have agreed on all the measures that the Prime Minister has said: If this does not work, if it is that the banks are not solid enough to let them dare to borrow out, what will the Government do, and when?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e218	We have implemented a wide range of measures throughout the autumn, both in the case of private banks and in the case of small banks with their own lending arrangements, with significant input of money, liquidity, from the Bank of Norway and through state banks, which have significantly increased lending frameworks for private Norwegian companies. So here's the deal. We have also made it clear all along that we are ready to take further action to secure the Norwegian banking system at short notice. We'll do that whenever and where necessary. Lower interest rate is what's most urgent now, and as we follow up. So I just want to say that what's happening now is an example that having a naive belief that the market regulates itself is wrong. The market must be governed. The problem with the market and banking is that in good times they lend too much, so that there are bubbles. When they crack and there are downtimes, the banks lend out too little. That's why we need the community, we need the state to rule and create rules and not least ensure liquidity for the companies in a recession, and we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e225	There will be follow-up questions – first Jan Tore Sanner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e228	There is no disagreement that there is a need to regulate the market. But it seems that we have a government that loves to owe everyone else. Often we hear that it is the fault of the previous government. Now we're told that it's the bank's fault that you don't lend money. In the VG today we read that the red-green politicians are threatening with trouble if the Norwegian Bank does not set interest rates down by at least one percentage point. The latter can hardly be interpreted as anything but a great frustration at the lack of action by the government itself. I otherwise record that the Prime Minister does not answer the questions asked by Erna Solberg. When the Prime Minister goes into the business of today and is so concerned – and in my opinion for good reason – that the banking market is still dried out, the Prime Minister should also be able to respond to whether and when new measures are taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e235	We are committed to taking action in a way that does not create more uncertainty and greater problems. Therefore, the measures we are taking will be implemented in close dialogue with our professional bodies, the Bank of Norway and the Banking Authority, but also as far as possible with the industry. The measures taken are significant. For example: increasing the GIEK framework from 50 billion to 110 billion, allowing industry to borrow 50 billion DKK directly in the treasury, involves a significant flow of liquidity to Norwegian businesses and private business from the state. We have. We've been acting in relation to the banking system, both private and state. And then we've said that we're ready to take further action, but then we do it that way and at the time we think the industry is doing the best.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e242	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e245	It is reasonable that the Prime Minister does not know what to answer the question to Erna Solberg. It is absolutely right that when the opposition met the government for a while back, this was one of the most important questions we discussed. We specifically asked that we give feedback to Stortinget on what could be done to make the credit market work better. That feedback has not arrived. Then I hear the Prime Minister say that the Government is assessing new measures, and that you don't want to worry – you want to wait and see. But the situation is serious now. Companies do not receive loans now. And many people report it. So it is not just businesses, but it is also private individuals who need intermediate financing in relation to the purchase and sale of housing – and the market has thus stopped completely. If it is that the Prime Minister believes that he can manage the market better than he does today, it is right now that he should do so in order to make the credit market work better. Then I want to know what the Government intends to do to improve the measures that have already been taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e256	What is quite obvious, and as this fall has shown, and as I noticed that the banking industry also expressed on the radio this morning, is that the government is taking extensive measures to make the banking system work. The banking industry is pleased with the measures taken — many of them now in operation. For example, we have set aside NOK 350 billion for the private banks. There's NOK 42 billion added as bonds, so there's a lot left. It's added $12 billion to 89 smaller banks. There are still significant loans, many different ways of providing credit, which we use on a daily or weekly basis from the Bank of Norway and the State. In addition, we have not used up the entire 50 billion DKK framework that we have now given to Norwegian industry – 50 additional billion kroner from the state funds directly lent out to industry through export finance. There's a lot to go on there. So we have instruments, we use them, and without them the situation would have been considerably more serious. If we need new ones, they come with short notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e263	Dagfinn Højbråten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e266	The majority now know that the Prime Minister is concerned. The majority know that the Prime Minister is continuously assessing the situation and is continuously taking action, but the Stortinget does not know what the Prime Minister is thinking about and what he is planning. To say as my grandmother: While the grass grows, the cow dies. We see that on a daily basis, at the latest yesterday in Today's Business: «D-day for Karmøy». - Karmsund Maritime has D-day tomorrow. – That is exactly what is the theme of this question. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: is he prepared to join a national effort to meet the rapidly increasing unemployment rate, such as the unemployment rate? the German government has done? According to the Financial Times yesterday, the German government has committed significant public investment in school buildings, infrastructure, etc., in order to ensure that companies commit themselves to avoiding mass redundancies and the social partners commit themselves to moderation. The Prime Minister will meet the social partners later today. Will he take the initiative in a national effort, which not only involves us in the opposition in the Storting but includes industry and the trade movement?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e275	What the Storting knows is that the government and the authorities are acting. We are taking significant action. State banks and private banks have been given measures to enable them to borrow more money than they could otherwise have done. But the main single measure is lower interest rates. Lower interest rates hit the companies, it hits everyone with mortgages, it works fast, and it has a big impact on the Norwegian economy. That is why, ever since we presented the State budget, we have said that the measure that must work first, which is the first line of defence against the international financial crisis, is to bring down interest rates. Therefore, we have provided for lower interest rates, and therefore Norway’s Bank also has a mandate, a mandate, which means that they should set the interest necessary to ensure good development in the Norwegian economy. So it is completely wrong when all the representatives from the opposition claim that this government does not take action. Measures are being implemented on an ongoing basis. And lower interest rates are the largest and most important measure that works faster. Then we've invited to dialogue with the opposition on Stortinget. We had, in my opinion, a good and useful meeting with the opposition at Stortinget recently, and we are now inviting the social partners to dialogue to just listen to the input they have when we are going to make the further actions we have announced in January.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e283	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e286	Paradoxically, I am happy that we live in a country where the Prime Minister does not have all the power to oblige private banks to lend money to specific projects, but must indirectly influence the banks' ability to do so. In fact, I agree with the Prime Minister that the way that deals with measures to provide liquidity through loans and collateral in banks has gone as far as I think that someone can come by. the date of issue. Equally fully keeps the banks back. It is obvious that they are now in a situation where they are busy building their equity – slimming the balance sheet, as economists say. I think that in this situation is the next step the government has to consider how to add or strengthen the equity of the banks – and I think definitely not that the state should take over the banks, but other ways to add equity to the banks, for example. through subordinated loans. Otherwise, it is obvious that banks are also uncertain about the future. Then there are measures in economic policy, crisis package and other things that can create optimism, including what is needed to make banks dare to borrow. Is that advice the Prime Minister thinks it might be age-old to listen to?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e295	I think it's very important that we listen and listen to advice, and I think the representative Sponheim's approach is a wise approach. First of all, what the state can do is to help bring liquidity, or money, into the system, and there we have a lot of channels, and we're adding a lot of money. But then it's ultimately crucial that the banks choose to borrow for projects, and that they trust them. Then the problem now is that the banks are careful. Then the question is, how can we make sure that the banks lend more? I want to be careful to speculate in individual measures, because at the moment that I do it as Prime Minister, it can create uncertainty and speculation that we can do things that can create uncertainty. We admitted significant equity when we had a serious banking crisis in 1992. We're not in a similar situation now, so I'll be careful to speculate on it. Whether we should go into other instruments — responsible loans, and I have also heard other examples — well, all of this is assessed continuously and in close dialogue with the banking sector itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e304	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e307	We're approaching Christmas, and it's time to wish the Prime Minister a really good Christmas. It's like we have Christmas traditions here in Stortinget. One of them has experienced some of us today, that employees and representatives are walking around the Christmas tree, accompanied by the Salvation Army. After all, the Salvation Army is an organization that enjoys support and respect from so to speak the entire Norwegian people. But the government's Christmas gift to the Salvation Army has been to withdraw support for their child and youth work. These are more than 6,000 children and young people around the whole of Norway, who go in cows, in herds and in the spear. From 2009 they will not receive State aid. The reason is that the Government has adopted a regulation and that the Government does not like the guidelines that the Salvation Army has for its leadership. I assume – as I know the Prime Minister – that he is uncomfortable with this decision. I expect it can't stand, because it will hit children's and youth organisations far beyond the Salvation Army. Several of them have now received threatening letters and e-mails from the same Distribution Committee that is behind this. But behind it again there is a regulation that has been adopted politically. I will give the Prime Minister an opportunity here in Stortinget now before Christmas to mark that this will be cleaned up. We can't do that in Norway. We're going to have an inclusive society, and it also has to include those who have different opinions than the Government. The Salvation Army is likely to be compensated for its support through the Jubilee Rides and elsewhere, but Norway needs to have a support system for children’s and youth organisations that are liberal, voiced and inclusive.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e316	It is quite right, as the representative Højbråten says, that the decision of the Distribution Committee, which is an underlying agency under the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, is based on a regulation. That regulation was made in close dialogue with the youth organisations, by the fact that there was a separate selection where they set out, as the regulation was drawn up. The case shall now be brought before the Ministry for Appeal. That's why it's wrong for me to go into the single thing, because it'll only weaken our ability to make the decision we think must be right, when we get it on our table. That being said, I would like to say in general: we have to be very careful in this country to set ourselves up so that we punish organizations that have positions or opinions that we don't like. Many people also demand that we respect those with whom we disagree. I'm a hot defender of gay rights. I have contributed to the fact that, among other things, has been given a reinforced legal protection. But I am also a defender of the fact that people can be allowed to disagree with me and what the Government believes. The challenge is to also accept that organisations with positions and practices other than ours should be treated in a non-discriminatory and financially supportive manner. I think it is Voltaire who has said that I deeply disagree with what you say and stand for, but I will die for your right to say and mean what you mean. It is a liberal approach to freedom of expression that I have great respect for.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e323	I am pleased with the answer that the Prime Minister is now giving. I have basically believed that it was such that the Prime Minister stands for a liberal and liberal state that is inclusive of everyone, even for those who represent a different view than what is currently politically correct. What is, however, the political issue — which the Prime Minister can address, without going into the individual case and the appeal procedure, which I respect for his not doing — is that when one sees that a politically adopted regulation turns out this way and threatens to turn out for organizations representing 150 000 children and young people here in the country and their leisure activities, there is certainly good reason to go closer to that regulation. I don't think there's any doubt that the Distribution Committee is interpreting that rule correctly. The question is whether the prescription is correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e330	It is possible to look at that rule when we first have the appeal handling of a single case in relation to the regulation. The regulation is a result of a selection set up by the Bondevik II Government, which reviewed the support policy towards the children’s and youth organisations and was led by Guro Ødegård, which was composed of representatives of the voluntary organisations for children’s and youth. As far as I know, it was a unanimous selection that proposed this rule. But it might be right to change the rule, and that's why we have to go through it. But the purpose of the rule is to ensure that you have democratic organisations, where everyone can participate. But then it bumps into other principles, and then we get to go through it and see if we've found the right balance.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e335	There will be follow-up questions – May-Helen Molvær Grimstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e338	It is true that the Bondevik II facility brings down a selection. The result of that work was clear in 2006, and the guidelines were adopted politically in 2007, so it is this government that is responsible for the guidelines adopted. What we're seeing is that the decision that the Salvation Army should not be supported, and that a number of other organizations indirectly get the threat that if they don't change their guidelines, they too will lose their state support, will cause a great deal of unrest. When the Prime Minister says that the Government will not punish organizations that have a different position than the Government itself may have, it is quite obvious that the Prime Minister will now take this and system for the direction lines to be changed, so that one can bring peace to the organisational life. Perhaps 150,000 children and young people will be affected if the government does not intervene politically.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e345	It is quite right that it was this government that prescribed the regulation, but we did it on the basis of a sample – which was set up by the previous government – where the organisations were heavily represented and recommended this change. But, as I say, we're responsible for the regulation. We are also responsible for assessing whether to change it. Now we have to do that, but first we have to deal with the appeal and decide on it. Therefore, I have to be clear about not starting to deal with a single appeal. These include: is stated in the regulation: ‘ Grants may be granted to voluntary country-wide organisations which by their statutes: c) do not create barriers to the full participation of children and young people from all social groups, irrespective of gender, ethnicity, disability or sexual orientation.’;» [[...]] This is when the problem arises: how strict are the requirements for organisations to be open to all, should the community be able to stand up to the wish to be allowed to shut someone out, because one should be allowed to stand for a policy that I disagree with? It's a classic dilemma, and now we get to go into that dilemma.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e362	The President has doubts as to whether, after hearing the exchange of words, there is a need for more follow-up questions. The President wants to get away from Anders Anundsen. If there's nothing new, this is going to be the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e367	We live in a proud democracy. The Prime Minister himself has explained the importance of freedom of expression and freedom of expression in order for us to respect the values we stand for. Norway also uses many resources internationally to spread freedom of expression and freedom of expression on which important values should build democracy and a society. That scheme does not apply only to the Salvation Army. Most Christian youth organisations are likely to be in the same situation as the Salvation Army has experienced in this specific case, which has received much media publicity. The Prime Minister now sees the consequence of the decree adopted by the Prime Minister. Although there is a sample that has come with a position, it is, as the Prime Minister says, the Prime Minister and the Government that are responsible for this. The consequences are now clear. Can the Prime Minister also be aware that the consequence we are now seeing is not acceptable and will result in the Prime Minister initiating regulatory change and doing so in such a way that it will not have an impact on the 2009 operational year for the organisations concerned?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e374	I fully respect the question. However, I believe it is very important that the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality deal with this matter in accordance with all the regulations and rules governing the handling of cases, in particular appeal proceedings. If we make mistakes there, it undermines our decision when it is made. That is why I do not want to deal with the matter now – it must first be dealt with in the department. What is important is that when the sample proposed this and it came into the regulation, it was because it wanted to prevent discrimination, which is a very legitimate and important consideration. It is enshrined in the UN Declaration of Human Rights. What we want is to avoid discriminating people with disabilities, people with different ethnic backgrounds and people with different sexual orientations. I think it's wrong to discriminate against people, of course also those who have a different sexual orientation. But then the question is, how are we going to deal with those organisations that disagree with me and want to exclude someone? I think it's a shame, but it's not the same thing as saying that we think they're going to lose financial support.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e381	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e384	We are just in those days when we also in the Storting send each other short and want each other good new year. But it is enough that for many – perhaps not especially for big ones, but for many others in this country – there is unfortunately a greater uncertainty about how well the new year will be this year. I think of the crisis that started in the financial industry, which is gradually spreading deeper into the real economy – so far perhaps more in other countries than in us. But we also see daily messages about how it affects businesses and jobs, and creates uprisings in homes and communities. I still want to invite the Prime Minister not only to put words on the crisis mood that is now spreading in society, but to see what opportunities the crisis can create for us. It is Obama's new Chief of Staff, Rahm Emanuel, who has spoken out in the last few days: a crisis must not be thrown away. I am concerned that in Norway too we need to manage both crisis and problems and to live with local communities and individual communities, but at the same time address opportunities. In such a period of upsurge, there is a great danger that we will take out the present values of all the problems — as banks clearly do — rather than take out the present values of the possibilities that this creates. I am thinking in particular of the possibilities of a more sustainable society that a crisis and an uprising in different ways provide. I would like to say quite clearly – from my point of view – that the biggest challenge we have in 2009 is still to get to a successful Copenhagen meeting and to keep progress in solving climate problems. There, I think, some of the challenges lie in solving the short-term economic problems. Does the Prime Minister see the possibility of combining the solutions in the economic world – including in this country – with the challenges we face in following up on the climate deal?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e393	The short answer to the question is yes. I see those possibilities. And I think it's possible to reconcile the desire to achieve more sustainable development by implementing measures to secure jobs. We can't set ourselves up so that we have to choose work or environment – we have to get to both. That is what is meant by or the message in the term «sustainable development». Whether we are betting on public transport or on rail – or what we are now betting on – this is a measure that can ensure work, but also contribute to a better environment and lower emissions. I also agree that the most important thing in 2009 is that we deal with the long-term issues we face, such as: the climate challenge and poverty problems. All history suggests that the economic setback will be relatively short-lived, from this perspective. The climate problem will be there for many decades. The economic setback the world is now experiencing will, after all, be over in a significantly shorter period than that. I can't say if it's one, two, or three years, but at least it's going to be a limited number of years. It is important that we do not lose sight of the lasting problems we face, such as poverty, the UN's Millennium Goals and climate problems. Another challenge we're facing is to find the balance between describing the seriousness and not black paint at the same time. Although statistical central agency would get right in its estimates of increased unemployment next year, it will still be about 96 pst. Of all those who want jobs here in the country, get a job. All of them, most of them will have increased purchasing power, get more to walk with, in 2009 than in 2008. It is very important that all the people who have a job and a normal income, which is the vast majority, act and act as normal. Because if they become unnecessarily alarmed, it only reinforces the crisis. So there's a lot of challenges and dilemmas we're facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e402	I agree with a lot of what the Prime Minister says here. I am obliged by my government in the Left to work to influence the Prime Minister and government in the public debate, so that more than half of the measures we put in place to solve unemployment are moving in a green direction. I know that I cannot achieve here that the Prime Minister will commit himself to such an objective, but at least I can express the view that it would be desirable for more than half of the measures to move in a green direction. There may be very sensible interventions, such as increases in school buildings or public buildings. It can be done quickly. Window manufacturers have little to do, and the windows are rotting in many schools. It is possible to combine this in a way that allows municipalities to operate cheaper when this is done, and not a more expensive operation. The same is true of aid to the export industry, not to put people on the streets, but to start thinking about what to do about the new sustainable development we are now going into. The Prime Minister has an important mission here. 50 pst. had been a great Christmas gift to the Norwegian people!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e409	I believe that the representative of Sponheim must be able to greet his central government and his national government and say that he pressured me very hard to see that half of the measures in the package of measures coming in January/February become green measures. I do not promise here and now that it will be half, but what I can say is that of course there will be environmental measures in that package. It's a matter of weighing. The overarching thing for us will always be what ensures jobs – an employment package. For example, the alternative to spending money on an environmental measure is: spending money on refurbishment of railway, school or other things. I think there will be a lot of good purposes in that package – almost anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e416	There will be follow-up questions – first Gunnar Kvassheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e419	The Environment Minister has said that he will fight for a green crisis package. The Prime Minister can see the commitment of the Left today as a desire to provide the Minister for the Environment with help in this fight to get a green crisis package. I hear the Prime Minister says there will be measures in the crisis package aimed at the environment. But it was not a clear wish to create a green crisis package as one sees in some EU countries, and as one sees in the United States from the new Obama administration. This is where I want to challenge the Prime Minister to be clearer – whether he wants to use this crisis package both in terms of research, industrial policy and climate policy, to make a powerful turn towards a more sustainable society. I would like briefly to challenge the Prime Minister to confirm that he will put the term 'green' on the crisis package that the Government will bring to the new year.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e426	The important thing is that we submit a package, and it is much easier to comment on it after we have submitted it than before we submit it. Because once we put it forward, everyone can see what we've put forward. Package is not complete. We're working on it now. There are some basic questions that need to be settled first. One is the amount – the scope – of the measures. We will do so, among other things. see in the light of developments in the Norwegian economy and how well we manage to bring interest rates down. So the size and the framework will be crucial. The second is that the measures must be temporary, for these should be additional measures that we are now implementing in a period of decline. Then they must be able to be liquidated when the economy returns. There are many sensible, good temporary measures. Rehabilitation of schools is a temporary measure. Once it has been completed, it has been completed. The third is the composition of these measures. There I'll be careful to be too precise. But what we have said in the letter to Stortinget is that it will be about maintenance, renovation and construction projects. It is easy to imagine maintenance projects that provide both a better school and, for example, a better school. provides less energy use in a tidy-up school building. Whether it's green or school — or maybe both — it's good at least.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e438	Ketil Solvik-Olsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e441	All emergency measures need not necessarily require transfers or funds from the country. The energy industry has large amounts of capital. They have a large number of good projects, and many of them are profitable even without a state support regime. However, the industry points out when they are unable to realise these projects, that there is a lack of regulatory framework conditions and that the processing capacity of the NVE is too weak. As a result, good projects are in line without being realised. During these three and a half years, the government has not promoted any overall forecast of energy policy. As a result, the wind industry has changed its regime every year. This means that large hydropower projects and large upgrade projects will be in line for many years. Small-scale projects that are now applying have to wait until 2010 before getting a case manager at all. Will the Prime Minister take the initiative to ensure that the energy industry is given more offensive framework conditions so that they can realise the profitable projects that are in place and that can be a good cyclical measure in these difficult times?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e450	At first, I think it is important to stress that the package that comes in January/February is not a complete and totally new state budget. There are targeted measures to ensure employment, and there will be temporary measures. Of course, there are many other things that are important to do, but we may not be able to do all of that in that package. There will be new revised budgets, new government budgets and new documents beyond spring. But in terms of energy, first of all, I agree that the processing capacity is important. It's strengthened, and if we get a further boost in 2010, we'll get back to it. The framework for Enova to support renewable energy has been greatly increased. They were about 700 million. NOK when we took over. Now they're at NOK 1.3 billion, and they're going up to NOK 1.5 to 1.6 billion with the extra provisions. So we're talking about a significant increase in grants to, among other things. wind power. That is why funds have also been allocated to new wind power projects – I believe it happened yesterday.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e457	Peter Skovholt Gitmark – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e460	Too many workers are uncertain about the future because they are in companies that have experienced a large fall in demand and thus have problems with earnings. In addition, banks have become very cautious about borrowing money. This means that a number of companies have an acute liquidity situation. One of the industries that have it extra tough is the car industry. We experience that car sales are falling, and that a number of dealers are in danger of going bankrupt. In addition, the Norwegian car industry is under strong pressure, with car factories such as CT Farsund and Kongsberg Automotive. Simple consumer-oriented measures are now needed and the financial crisis must be used in the service of the environment. Newer cars have significantly lower emissions, and they are also far safer than older cars. Will the Prime Minister, like the Right, cut the fees on the most environmentally friendly cars, to stimulate sales to give Norway a newer car park, a safer and more environmentally friendly car park?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e471	We have changed the car charges here in the country in a more environmentally friendly direction: polluting cars pay higher charges, and more environmentally friendly cars pay lower charges. Once again, whether we're going to do more and make further changes here, we're going to get back into the individual budgets. But there has already been a conversion of car charges in a more environmentally friendly direction in Norway, because we believe that it should pay off being environmentally friendly and penalising pollution. I believe that perhaps the most important contribution to getting a more environmentally friendly car fleet is getting the transport industry into the EU's quota system, because then we get a price for pollution, a price for CO2 emissions, and I know it's working for in the EU. When you do that, you get a very powerful and effective tool to put a ceiling on total emissions from the transport sector as well as getting a price on emissions that makes it more profitable to drive environmentally friendly cars.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e484	Line Henriette Holten Heimdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e487	I'm glad the Prime Minister says we don't have to stand up to each other so that we put work and environment up against each other. He mentioned in his reply to Sponheim that we can bet on public transport, and we can bet on the railway. It will give people work, and it will lead to lower climate emissions. It is that in 2007 we set a new Norway record in climate change emissions, and the road sector was the area where we once again got an increase. But in Norway we have a small industrial venture: the electric car industry. We now see that there are many competitors in the car industry who switch and charge electric cars. Norway has a lead in this sector, we have an industrial venture. What will the Prime Minister do about technology development, so that we can take care of this leap that Buddy, who Think, among other things, has given us?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e498	I am concerned that the state is facilitating the development of environmental technologies. I am concerned that there will be good cooperation between public and private companies in developing new products. But I'm concerned that it doesn't happen by sitting in the departments or in the government pointing to that winning business and that losing business – and choosing. Then I think we're very often going to make very serious mistakes, and those who have the best lobby groups and the best fit of politicians are winning. That's why I'm busy making neat, proper rules for government involvement in private companies. We have done so through Innovation Norway. They have loan schemes, guarantee schemes and risk loan schemes, which have been used to promote Norwegian electricity car production in the past. In addition, the country has now set up a new instrument, Investinor, which is a state fund to enter into equity, one of which is to enter equity into environmentally friendly enterprises and in the case of environmentally friendly products. History has shown that the state has been inside. But I believe that it is not a prime minister's job to enter single companies. We have to leave that to the bodies that are set to do so, namely Innovation Norway, Investinor and ZERO.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e511	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e514	Norwegian workers face tough times. One thing, given the financial crisis we are experiencing now, is that we experience daily bankruptcies in small and medium-sized enterprises, permissive announcements go out every day, and we experience greater and greater unemployment. In a previous Question Time, the Prime Minister has said that Norwegian workers have to endure, and they have to adjust to a change, especially in the construction sector. But there are also other things that Norwegian workers have to feel like a big challenge in the future. The transitional regime for 15 EU countries expires on 1 May next year. This means that after 1 May next year, workers throughout the Schengen area can come to Norway without any restrictions whatsoever and find work. In many sectors, labour can actually be offered for 20, 30 and 40 kroner an hour. In addition, we know that the Services Directive is just around the corner, a directive that has raised serious doubts as to whether foreign workers can come to Norway and take pay and working conditions with them from the country of origin. When we know that Norwegian workers also initially have the highest level of taxation in the world, all of this will put Norwegian workers in a competitive position that becomes confusing no matter what measures the Government has to take in relation to social dumping. My question to the Prime Minister is: In addition to the measures that the Government has now taken in the fight against social dumping, and in addition to what the Government has said about the Services Directive, does the Government have any plans – or preparations for something – to strengthen Norwegian workers' rights and conditions of competition when the market opens from 1 May to 100 p.m. and when the Services Directive is incorporated?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e526	Firstly, it follows from the EEA Agreement, which a broad majority in this area of the United Kingdom have endorsed, that moving between countries and taking jobs in different countries should be free for people in the EEA area, within Europe. That Norway can have labour from Poland, or that we can work in Germany, is part of the EEA Agreement. I also expect the representative, Mr Sandberg, to agree that this is the way it should be. It is then important to avoid aggravating pay and working conditions for workers in Norway. The government has been very concerned about that, it's important that we're all concerned about it. This is why transitional arrangements were in place for the new EU countries. It seems that those transitional arrangements have been less important than we might have thought, because labour immigration to Norway has been higher than to very many countries without transitional arrangements. Labour immigration to Norway has been high, although we have had transitional arrangements. The most important thing, therefore, is not whether we have or do not have transitional arrangements, the most important thing is whether or not we have measures to prevent social dumping. Norway has introduced this. We had a separate package of measures with many specific requirements, and we have now come up with a new package, package of measures 2, which includes: required identification cards for people in construction sites. I also believe that we are now introducing it for some new industries, including: where we use this with the publication of collective bargaining agreements, it uses it with the right of access to sub-contractor tariffs and pay terms, strengthens the Labour Inspectorate and other measures. Now, at the hearing, we are going to send a proposal on what is called joint and several liability, which means that we also have responsibility for the pay and working conditions of the subcontractors, etc. We implement and will implement comprehensive measures to prevent social dumping — and they work. We do this in close dialogue with the workers' organisations because we want labour immigration, but we do not want social dumping. We say yes to labour immigration and no to social dumping, and take action all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e535	That's right, as the Prime Minister points out, there's a lot of things in place. But still, in some industries, these regulations are out of the question. As I also tried to say in my main question: although all tariffs are published for all industries and sectors in this country, Norwegian workers will continue to lose their jobs in competition with labour from, for example, Poland, or other EU countries, because Norwegian workers are resident here and are subject to very general taxes and taxes, which foreign workers will not get from commuting from their country of origin to Norway. Both property taxes, car charges, tolls, electricity charges, housing costs — all these general taxes imposed on Norwegian workers will not be applied to foreign labour. That is why we want to lose in that competition too. My question is this: Can we also look at these areas in order to reduce the cost of Norwegian workers — that is, simply to reduce taxes and charges for Norwegian workers?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e542	If there was a question of whether this government is going to go in to reduce the general level of taxation on a lasting basis, the answer is no. We believe that we need the fissure layer that the welfare community is, we need money into the common fund to pay for hospitals, roads, kindergartens and many other important things. On the other hand, the government is concerned with a fairer tax system, so we've made sure to close tax holes that some of the richest people have used. Then we've been able to use that money to reduce the tax on those with low and ordinary incomes. That's why we have, among other things, made sure that very many minimum pensioners and other pensioners now do not pay property taxes, we have created a fairer tax system. We will continue to work on that, but not with any general lasting reductions. In the case of Norwegian workers, there is nothing to suggest that they as a group have lost that there has been labour immigration – on the contrary, we have all earned that we have had labour immigration. It has made it possible to build Norway, get many more road projects, many more kindergartens, many more schools than if we had not had work immigration. Wage growth in the Norwegian construction sector has been good, it has been better than for other sectors. So far, there has not been any overall deterioration in that sector, although, of course, there have been unfortunate examples of social dumping. That is why we are taking action against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e549	There will be follow-up questions – first Kenneth Svendsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e552	There are 40 000–50000 workers from the EEA area in Norway today, many of whom are losing their jobs. Some people go around thinking that this staff is about to go home, but the numbers show something else. And why would they leave? They have acquired rights in Norway. The financial crisis also affects Poland, Lithuania and other countries. This will, of course, reinforce the impact of the financial crisis in Norway. Norway has one of the world’s highest levels of taxation. Norwegian jobs can lose in the future if you don't do anything about it. We have over 400 billion dollars in surplus in the state budget. The Prime Minister has been in the United Kingdom and received good advice from the English Prime Minister, Gordon Brown, that efforts should be made to reduce the level of taxes and charges. Why not do this when it is known that a reduction in the level of taxation that can be adopted in this Chamber has the same effect as a reduction in interest rates?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e559	The most important thing for this government has been to facilitate the decline in interest rates. As I said earlier today, it has been important both because it is an action that works very quickly, it takes those who are hit first and hardest by the financial crisis – people with housing debts, Norwegian businesses – and it is a very strong measure. That's why we've been busy making provision for lower interest rates. We haven't stressed lower taxes, partly because it doesn't work as fast or is as accurate as lower interest rates, partly because we've thought it would be more accurate and more important to use — for example. in the state budget – the extra money we have had to upgrade schools, refurbish municipal hospitals or maintain roads and railways. This is why there is a considerable amount of extra money in the State budget that has already been adopted, which is starting to work on 1 January, to schools, to roads, to many other important public projects. We simply think it's more important to spend the money on it. In addition, it provides faster employment effects and more jobs than general tax reliefs. Otherwise, I think it's a misunderstanding here. Poles living and working in Norway pay taxes to Norway, so they also earn rights in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e568	Martin Engeset – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e571	I am pleased that the Prime Minister is so clear that labour immigration has been positive for Norway. It's a confession that more people should use. For the right, it is important to state that Norway still needs to be a country that is attractive to competent and job-seekers. This means that those who come must be treated decently, that they must not be exploited, and that they must also have proper working and pay conditions. The right has supported a number of the proposals made by the Government in Action Packages 1 and 2 in order to counteract social dumping. My question is: As for the new measures that are coming in the future, and as the Prime Minister and the Government sees fit, will they not become bureaucratic, will they not be difficult to practice, and will they be able to deal with the great undergrowth of small and medium-sized enterprises?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e580	Yes, we are committed to making actions that are as bureaucratic and as simple as possible to deal with, but at the same time we need to have measures. That means that when we make demands, for example: publicising collective agreements, or requiring that there be ID cards for all those working on a construction site, it requires some paperwork. The alternative is to open up social dumping and undermine the whole idea that we should be able to have labour immigration, but not undermine Norwegian pay and work conditions. I just think that we who believe that labour migration is good, that having open borders in Europe is good – that people can move freely between countries in Europe, I think is a value in itself – should be very concerned not to link it with social dumping, because then there will be reactions to the open borders. The more open the borders, the more one must be in favour of action against social dumping, although in some cases it will also lead to some paperwork and bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e585	Bjørg Tørersdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e588	The Christian People's Party believes that we will continue to have labour immigration, both next year and in the years to come, to meet all the major challenges we have in the welfare society. We believe that the increased unemployment needs to be met with measures that make use of the increased availability to resume maintenance, build more infrastructure, etc. We're going to do both. The Christian People's Party does not see labour immigration as a threat to Norwegian employment, but we have a concern. We know that some of the first unemployed are the unskilled. They will lose out in competition if they do not face the situation of increased unemployment, with measures of competence. It is important that one does not become overly eager and only helps the trade-unioned people around construction – it is important, but it is also incredibly important to launch skills measures. In any case, there are some people who will lose – labour immigration or one – in the competition for jobs if they do not have the skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e596	I agree that competence is very important. Some of what I think we need to be prepared for, and which we are going to experience in 2009, is that in some sectors and in some parts of the country there is unemployment, while in other sectors, in other sectors and in other parts of the country there is a shortage of labour. For example, we now see unemployment growing within construction, and it grows within industry. However, there is still a falling unemployment rate in the case of e.g. care, care and education. This means that in a municipality it may well be that the industrial worker goes unemployed, while there is a lack of staff at the hospital. So the question is, is it going to happen, and how fast is it possible in the case that someone who worked in the industry gets a job at the hospital? Experience has shown that this type of change often takes a long time, is often difficult, and in the meantime there is a slight increase in unemployment. In any case, skills, training, schooling and qualification are important, because it makes the ability to adapt to the economy stronger, and then we reduce unemployment – people get back to work faster if they lose their jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e601	Then the oral question procedure is over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e606	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Questions 13 and 14 from the representatives of Gunnar Gundersen and Bjørg Tørersdal, respectively, to the Minister of Knowledge, are moved and answered in response to question 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e618	I would like to address a question to the Minister of Finance: ‘The title of the nation is November 27th ‘To be taxed on lost values’. One of many small business owners stands out and shows that he is now paying property taxes on lost values. The financial paper of November 21 shows an example where two shareholders in a couple of small companies at Oslo Børs have to pay 30 and 40 pst respectively. of the remaining values of two taxes on wealth. These are disastrous examples of how taxes on wealth depreciate and depreciate the demand for capital out of businesses and owners. Is this a policy adapted to today's challenges?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e632	Several press headlines over the past few weeks have given an unexplained picture of the rules on taxes on wealth. A review theme has been the taxation of wealth of shares that fall in value during the year of income. Initially, I can mention that limited liability companies do not pay taxes on wealth. Instead, personal shareholders shall pay property taxes on the shares they own. Under the general rule, taxable assets shall be determined at the turnover value of the taxpayer's assets at the end of the year of income less liabilities. A person's stock of quoted shares is valued at the price value at the end of the year of income. Normally, there is no market to value unlisted shares. An annual valuation requirement for unlisted shares, i.e.: generating the share's turnover value is both very difficult and resource-intensive. For example, every year taxpayers will need the assistance of auditors, valuers or external consultants to determine the value of the company. The Tax Act therefore has a simplified valuation rule whereby unlisted shares are to be based on the total value of the tax assets of the limited liability company. Practical and administrative conditions indicate that the valuation is to be made on a per cent basis. 1 January of the year of income. The personal shareholder may then use the tax base of the company established by the last year's equation in reporting. Where capital changes are made in non-listed companies, the date of valuation is shifted to the end of the year of income. This avoids the taxation of assets withdrawn from the company during the year of income, while at the same time the taxation of wealth is applied to resources. The procedure also ensures that the value distribution per the share is adjusted. The date of valuation is consistent with the general rule of the Tax Code on wealth. Most of the assets of a limited liability company are valued according to their own rules in the Tax Act. For example, operating assets shall be valued at the value of tax write-downs and real estate shall be valued at the value of the equation. In general, the company's total tax base is lower than the turnover value of the company's assets. As property taxes on non-listed shares are based on the company's total tax base, changes in the turnover value of the company's assets during the year of income usually have no bearing on the taxation of owners of small and medium-sized enterprises. This also applies to the cases where the company holds shares in other non-listed companies. One exception applies to public limited liability companies holding listed shares, which are valued at price. In a fluctuating market, the date of valuation is of primary importance for shareholders in public limited liability companies holding listed papers. Several press releases show that persons who own listed shares via an investment company make capital changes in order to shift the date of valuation to the end of the year. I have in response to written question No. 370 from the Swedish Stock Exchange Representative, dated 9 December 2008, stated that the current rules on the timing of ‘the valuation of shares in non-listed companies have several weaknesses’. In the case of large changes in the stock of listed shares in such companies, the values at the beginning of the year may easily appear as a obsolete basis. This applies even if the rules over time yield reasonable results from stable ownership without changes in capital, as both up and downstrokes on the stock exchange then receive the same time shift for each shareholder. Furthermore, the exemption rule for changes in capital may lead to distortions by exploiting the possibility of exemption in the event of downsizing on the stock exchange, but not in the event of upswings. This gives incentives for unfortunate tax planning, preferably for resource-intensive shareholders. I have therefore said that we will assess whether there can be a suitable method of remedying these weaknesses, without creating significant new weaknesses. I cannot now foreshadow the result of these assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e655	I thank you for that review. But I had hoped that the finance minister might have come up with some of the more fundamental and long-term effects of the property tax, because it's hard to get jobs without equity. We see that today. Some people actually have to own the equity. The property tax is a tax that directly incurs equity in enterprises. It is my belief that small and medium-sized enterprises and family-run enterprises around the country are the carriers of future value creation and employment. This ownership must be able to cope with the bump levels we see in the market. The financial crisis is a good example of this. That's why I want to focus on the framework conditions that we actually give a variety of ownership in Norway. I would like to ask: does not the Minister of Finance also see how central a variety of ownership is in developing jobs and value creation throughout Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e662	I fully agree with Mr Gundersen. Fortunately, we have a diverse business life. Most of the players in this business have had five adventurous years. We see that in terms of how equity has evolved in the companies. Now we know that there will be tough years, and it's clear that these fluctuations will be a challenge to deal with, including for those who run small businesses. But there have been very good times, which makes most companies have a lot to go on. And then I refer to the answer that I've already given, because we see that there are some challenges in the question that the representative Gundersen addresses. But I don't have any new signals to give as to how we're going to solve that challenge. I'll come back to that when we've looked at the question in more detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e669	I believe the answer to that question is simple. You can only remove the property tax, because it is a tax on already taxed capital. And as I said, the wealth tax is very negative in terms of future value creation in the broad ownership, which the Minister of Finance is also looking for. That's a little bit why I asked if this policy is ‘adapted’ to the situation. Obviously, we've had adventurous times, and it's been a strong growth. But business has largely used this to invest in values to prepare for further growth. What you see now is undermining the faith that what you've invested in can create values. The values are not as money in the companies. They're invested in values that are now shrinking in. I am constantly receiving e-mails from family businesses where one is disappointed that one has to take money out of the company to pay the property tax. In addition, the property tax discriminates against Norwegian ownership in relation to foreign ownership. So I'm going to ask the Minister of Finance to go deep into the issue that the wealth tax is now creating in today's situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e676	I don't think the right stance on wealth taxes is situation-determined. As I understand it, this is a fundamental disagreement between the Government, and the SV, and the Right with regard to how the tax system should be. That argument from the Right applies in rising times and in downtime, morning and evening – even at night. But of course you can still find new arguments for old positions. We believe that the wealth tax is an important part of a fair tax system, and the right has itself raised this issue by removing the wealth tax, namely that many with significant income and wealth will be zero taxpayers. It's a big challenge in a society where we put so much emphasis on paying taxes according to our ability. That is the driving force behind the changes that we have made in the taxes on wealth, which have caused 400,000 people who paid taxes on wealth four years ago to not pay taxes on wealth. An additional 500,000 have been reduced in taxes on wealth, but at the same time we have sealed some of the holes that could be used by the most intermediary. I believe that in times of crisis fair distribution is important. It is also not a situational position on my part. But it's important because we know that 2009 is going to be on many challenges, and then we have to ask people to join in and take the vows.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e688	My question to the Minister of Finance is this: ‘The stagnation of the housing market now means that, in addition to the problems of intermediate financing, persons who have purchased a new dwelling may not be at risk of having the old one sold or that the sale takes over one year. When moving to new dwellings before the sale of old ones, it may mean that the tax on profits also applies to dwellings that have been owned and occupied for many years, cf. the provision on residence in the tax law § 9-3. In view of this, will the Council of State consider any relaxations in the provision to have lived one of the last two years before the sale in the dwelling?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e697	The total taxation of dwellings in Norway is very low, both in comparison with other countries and in relation to other capital items. This is due to exemptions from income tax on the use of owner-occupied dwellings, low equivalency for property tax purposes, and not least to rules which largely exempt the use of profit tax. The counterpart of this favourable profit tax is the corresponding limited possibility of deductions from the sale of owner-occupied dwellings. There's a principle of symmetry here. In the case of a one-year period of ownership and use, both the obligation to pay taxes and the right to deduct losses are eliminated. Profit taxes on residential sales have basically good distributive effects. It is related to the fact that the wealth of dwellings is largely the same as that of the household. Taxes are made at the time of the sale and are directly linked to the liquidity generated by the sale. The block exemption for housing involves a breach of the principle of neutrality in taxation and results in overinvestments in housing capital in relation to other types of asset. However, the consideration of mobility and liquidity in the housing market has been given to a uniform and symmetric tax system. When the main rule of profit taxation was changed in 1974, it was a goal to capture the gain on rented residential property, while owner-occupied housing was still to be treated liberally. In the past, there was a rule on exemption from profit tax only when the gain was used to reinvest in new dwellings within a specified period. The provision was technically complicated, while few were taxed. The current exemption is designed with an absolute requirement for ownership and residence. This is generally well known and easily briefed on. Unpredictability in individual cases has been mitigated by the rules on prevention of use, where exceptions to the use-time requirement are made. The exception is that an owner who cannot use the dwelling because of work, sickness, divorce, etc. can still earn a living and come within the tax exemption. There is no possibility of making individual exceptions based on judgement. The justification is, among other things, that the rules are simple to deal with both the taxpayers and the equality authorities. When the rules are designed with absolute requirements, some who are not covered by the rules may feel that they are unreasonable. However, the design is absolutely necessary in order to ensure equality in taxation by ensuring equal treatment of cases. It is also in the general system of value added tax that the entire gain is taxed when it falls outside the relevant exemption rules. In general, when you have a narrow area of tax liability on owner-occupied dwellings, you have to live with the fact that the right to deduct loss is also similarly narrow. I do not reject the fact that these rules in Section 9-3 of the Tax Act can be improved, and I take this view into account in the further work on developing good tax legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e712	In response to the previous questioner, the Council of State said that there were ‘new arguments for old positions’. I am tempted to say that I hear old arguments for old positions regarding housing taxes. Now the Council of State decorates it a little bit in its last two sentences, and I'm so glad. We are in a time when sales on the housing market are slow, very slow, perhaps almost impossible. In the case of taxes on dwellings that would otherwise be exempt from tax – that is what we are talking about, for once, the Right does not talk about tax relief, because these dwellings would be tax-free – one comes, by moving, into a tax position. Doesn't the Council of State see that the very time we're in could mean that at least maybe this rule was suspended for a period of time? It would help sales, help people's security in the banks, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e721	I see that the situation on the housing market is strained, to say the least. We have a significant fall in housing prices, on average 10 pst. in one year, and we have a halve of the rate of turnover. So it's perfectly obvious that the housing market is now not functioning normally, and there are many challenges for individuals who buy and sell housing at these times. That is exactly the background to the conclusion of my answer – the points of view, or the points of view, that the fleet representative has, I would like to take with me and look at. But I don't have any signals to come up with now about how those conclusions are going to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e728	It is often the case that the questions in this questionnaire end up with this – that you take it with you, but you don't have any signals. But I want to stress that I think it's a -- let me say -- cheap investment for the government to look at this. It can soften the housing market, speed up sales, solve some inter-financing problems and not contribute to a lower level of security for banks. When those who have been sitting for 20 years with a house that has it and that value, maybe have borrowed from it, and then they get 28 pst. tax on it, it is clear that security falls on banks. And with reference to the oral question procedure we've had earlier today, this is some of the core questions in the time we're in. I would like to receive a further statement from the Minister of Finance that this is something that you not only take with you, but that you also take up from the briefcase when you get back to the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e735	I have weekly meetings with the representative Fleet in Stortinget, with various questions. I appreciate it, because it is important to use the Storting and Questionnaire and the opportunity it gives to put the spotlight on different problem areas in the Norwegian community. The fleet is adamant with it, and in many areas it has also given the undersigned something to think about, even if I do not chat over the table with exactly what the asker would like. I take with me the issues that the fleet has raised on this question, and come back to them. I would like to take the opportunity to wish him a really good Christmas, and then we meet again in the New Year.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e742	Thanks – and the same to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e747	So we go to questions 13 and 14.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e753	I would like to address a question to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘Lookup in the Evening Post and the Newspaper suggests that the Directorate of Education has found an error in the basis for grants to the post-secondary schools and that the error is settled in the budget for 2009. The 2009 State budget states: ‘The 2009 budget sets have been corrected in relation to the drawings to be included in the calculation of the rates.’ Schools have understood this to have both past errors and corrected for a new basis for 2009. What is correct, and does the Council of State consider this to be an acceptable treatment for schools?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e762	Let me first say that the private schools do not have to pay back what they have received too much in addition years ago. If the schools have understood it this way, it's a misunderstanding. Then I would like to say a little about the mentioned error that has been made in previous years, and what creations have been made for the calculation of supplements for 2009. Privateculelova determines that the supplementary basis for private schools shall reflect the average operating costs per. student in public school. In addition, the private sector states that the grant basis is to be corrected for expenditure incurred by the public school but not to be included in the grant basis. The Ministry of Knowledge has discovered that subtracting from the supplementation basis to the private secondary schools has been too low. In 2008, this amounted to about 29 million. NOK too much supplement for private secondary schools. These funds are not claimed back. The 2009 calculation of the bets includes the correct subtraction from the add-on basis. This will improve the link between the contribution to the private secondary schools and the costs of operating the corresponding public schools. Both the grant and the draw have been calculated on the basis of the costs of the public schools in 2007. I would therefore like to stress that there is no link between too much contributions paid in previous years and the draw that is included in the 2009 rate calculations.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e775	I thank you for the review. This issue has been a matter of time because of travel activities with the Minister of Knowledge, so the Committee has focused on this. But I thank you for the review and see that it is in itself correct. But there are other things that go in the opposite direction for the schools. We know that they also get a pension burden next year that is not included in the calculation basis. Here are the schools that we know have operated in good faith. They've planned a whole school year and made agreements on a completely different assumption than they now have. Especially for growing schools, it creates a huge challenge because they have a new student base and not on the basis they have had in the past. I am a little surprised that the Council of State still has such a great need to implement this so quickly, when there is so much uncertainty in the calculations, and the schools could not have seen it for themselves. I would like to ask the Council of State to go back and look again at how to treat private actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e784	Of course, it's stupid that we made a mistake last year that has given some schools more money than they should have had, so we've had one too low. It is also easy for me to understand that schools, like all other activities, need care and planning, and when there are changes, it creates challenges. But I still want to say that we have made a mistake for a few years, it is difficult to argue that we should continue to make that mistake for several years, rather the contrary. Once you've made a mistake, you'll often agree that it's a matter of speeding up that error, and that's what we're doing with the 2009 supplemental basis. But since a mistake has been made years ago, it would have been totally wrong to demand a refund of funds for it. I feel reasonably confident that the competent guidance from these schools will be able to handle this situation. One may face adjustments and changes, such as from 2009 onwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e793	As the Council of State knows, and as I know, the basis here is very complicated. There are many uncertain factors, and the KOSTRA numbers are also not developed enough to say exactly what is right. I agree that errors should be corrected, but at the same time we now know that there are also expenses that the schools receive, which are not included in the compensation basis, and which are even more pronounced in the other direction. That's why I might have thought that since the government saw that it was burning during the university and higher education sectors during the budgetary procedure and brought 160 million. additional to compensate for this development, so that there is a need to do the same in this sector as in order to ensure a level playing field for private operators and public operators. In essence, this is just a recommendation to go in and look at this, because it is critical for some private schools that are market players and that have promised students and their employees framework conditions for the first part of next year's school year.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e802	Both the public school and the private schools we have are facing major challenges when it comes to resources in the future. That is why we have put forward a budget with a significant increase in transfers to schools, through the local economy and in my budget. But when it comes to the situation now, I feel reasonably confident that we will manage him with the budget we now have. There will always be issues related to pension costs and other things. We'll get back to that. What this question applies is the basis for additions, and I think it must be completely obvious that we have to correct the error that has been made, but that at the same time we do not demand any refund for the years the error has been made.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e812	‘In the municipality of Eidsberg in Østfold, four lone minor asylum seekers from 14 to 15 years of age have been temporarily placed in a foster home since 20 July 2008. [[EMA]] The kids didn't get school. The reasons for this have, among other things, been that they are temporarily located. So they haven't had formal schooling in six months. This is contrary to Norwegian law and the Children's Convention. How can the Council of State ensure that all EMA, whether temporarily located in foster homes or resident in care centres, receive schooling quickly after placement?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e819	Let me first say that the rules here are very clear. The main rule is that all children and young people in Norway have the right and obligation to basic education, and that applies to both Norwegian citizens and foreigners. Children seeking asylum are entitled to elementary school education when it is likely that the child will stay in Norway for more than three months or when it is likely that a suspension period will be granted. In this case, it is stated that the children have not received schooling, among other things. because they are temporarily located, but this has no relevance when there is a delay of more than three months. The primary school training obligation applies when the suspension in Norway has lasted for three months. According to the training law § 13-1, the municipality is obliged to fulfil the right to basic education and special educational assistance for all residents of the municipality. I also show that it is the county officials who are responsible for the supervision of the training of children in accordance with the Training Act. The representative Tørresdal asks how to ensure that single-year-old asylum seekers can have schooling quickly after they are placed in the care centre or temporarily in the foster home. The Ministry has been in contact with the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, which states that there are clear procedures for notifying the school establishment in the municipality when a child is placed in a care centre or foster home. This applies both when they are placed in care centres and in temporary places. Single minor asylum seekers under the age of 15 who are temporarily placed in the foster home are administratively located under the Children's, Youth and Family Statuses region east. Fosterheimen shall inform the municipality, as agreed with the Bufetat region east, of the placement of children in the municipality entitled to comprehensive school education. Responsibility for the procedures has been added to the national child protection system, which from December 2007 took over responsibility for single minor asylum seekers under the age of 15. I am aware that in the case at issue in Eastfold, the Bufetat region has pointed out the lack towards the foster home.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e828	I am very pleased that the Minister of Knowledge is clear in his speech. All children living in Norway are to have schooling. Therefore it is wrong that these four have not got it. What is my concern and the Christian People's Party is that there are more children in Norway who do not get the school they are entitled to. They are primarily children, and then they are asylum seekers. But they are primarily children with all the rights that all children in Norway have. Now the Council of State, as I had also expected, answers that here the procedures have to be tightened up, and here those responsible have to say more clearly about the rights and duties of primary education. My follow-up question to the Council of State is: How can a person make schools and primary schools able to receive quickly, because there is nothing to help if there is a message given, if the schools do not receive it quickly? Are there any leads for how to enable School-Norway to receive these children?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e837	Unfortunately, the representative is quite right. This is far from the only example that there are children in Norway who are not allowed to comply with their legal right to go to school. This probably applies to single minor asylum seekers, but unfortunately it also applies to other children, such as children. does not have legal permissions in Norway, perhaps for a longer period than here. This is a very important issue that we need to address most seriously, and which has a wide range of solutions in schools and in Bufetat, but also in other sectors of society. When it comes to the issue of EMA, which we are talking about here, I agree with the representative that although the responsibility and reporting obligations are with Buffetat, we also have a responsibility in the school. That school must be forbidden, is quick to manage that the elephants come to a school and should have a good offer there. I believe that many municipalities have gradually become more competent at this, and we are working – not least towards the municipalities where we know that it happens quite often – to guide both municipalities and schools to handle such a situation quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e844	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think there's a need to do some work to get the overview of how this works. We know which children are temporarily placed, and we know which children are in the care center. I would encourage the Council of State to check whether these children are being trained where they are. Although, of course, better practice needs to be put in place, it's now time for us to see if the procedures work. It may have been reported that the child has arrived, but it may still be out of school. So my question is: will the Council of State take action now to get an overview of what the state is like, if Norwegian lone minor asylum seekers get the school they're entitled to?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e853	Let me first say that there is no doubt that the main picture is that there is a great job done in child protection, in the care centre and in the school. Not long ago, I myself visited Eidsvoll, where there is a care centre. The centre itself has major challenges to the single minors who are there, but the school and the municipality have managed to meet a very difficult challenge with a difficult resource situation in a good way at short notice. There's a great deal of improvement in the way they handle it. It shows that we are busy with these issues both locally and nationally. I will also take with me the call to monitor more closely and address the question of how the follow-up of single minors is at school. It might be a good idea to do it, as well as make sure that the procedures we have in place are good.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e860	Then we go back to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e866	‘The size has expressed a desire to ensure the safety of children in school buses and the follow-up of the Ministry is requested on questions from the undersigned by August this year at the latest. The Council of State then announced that ‘the Ministry is strongly concerned with the safe transport of school children by bus’ and that assessments were in progress. Last week there were again several accidents with school kisses, fortunately without personal injury. Will the Council of State now ensure that the protection of children by school bus is implemented so that this winter does not result in damage that could prevent protection requirements?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e874	Road safety associated with the transport of school elephants by bus has been handled several times in Stortinget, and the government has, among other things. were asked to consider whether it is possible to impose a seat requirement for children under school pillows on buses. SINTEF presented the report ‘Security related to the transport of school children by bus’ at the end of May 2008. The report shows that school elephants are to a small extent damaged as passengers by bus and that the damage that occurs is not serious. SINTEF refers to the fact that, based on accidents registered to the police in the period 2002–2006, it can be estimated that two children of primary school age have been seriously injured during transportation by school bus during this period. The accident statistics show that the serious damage to this group of road users occurs in situations where the school students are either entering or leaving the bus, or if they go or cycle to and from the school. The monitoring of the supply of county municipalities shows that several county municipalities are actively involved in road safety and school-dressing, among others. by requiring a seating space for the school students, a requirement for a maximum age and average age at the bus park or by own rules of the cloud for drivers and elephants. The SINTEF report shows that extensive and complex work needs to be done to implement specific measures for this group of road users, both in terms of economics and practical and legal solutions. In the light of the findings of the SINTEF report, the necessary assessments will be carried out in cooperation with, inter alia, the Member States. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and the bus industry in order to come up with proposals for measures that may be feasible. I would like to stress that the Government is busy that all schoolchildren, regardless of which school they grow up in, should be able to travel as safely as possible to the school. I want to come back to Stortinget with a separate case about this when there is a final position on the priority measures for this group of road users, in addition to the general requirements for securing provided by the current legislation. I would also like to stress that it is now entirely possible for the county councils to make demands on the age of materials to be used in school pillows. As a home, all Class 2 and Class 3 buses registered after 1 October 1999 have available seatbelts. If the county authorities see such requirements in the call for tenders, a natural replacement for buses with seatbelts will gradually be achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e885	Thanks for the answer – it was as much as expected. I would like to see the Council of State be even clearer. I experience it so that the Council of State really says that the SINTEF report suggests that perhaps you shouldn't take the big grips. I think it is a bit special since we introduced requirements for the safety of children under the age of three by bus from 1 January 2008, where we are very clear about both seats and approved safety equipment, while the same requirement is not imposed for regular groups of children driving school buses. I think that 589 damage to traffic by school bus is a high number. I hope that the Council of State agrees with that, and that she will come back with a decision as soon as possible, so that we know what the Government really means. The problem for state politicians is that they don't have the financial space to be able to implement this, although everyone, at least everyone I'm talking to, says that this is something the county councils would like to introduce.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e894	It is now the case that several counties have introduced such requirements. Economic space is a matter of priority in the county councils, as in the state, and it is the county councils' responsibility. If the county authorities take their responsibility and prioritise this, this will have to be prioritised at the expense of other measures. It will also apply in the country. If the Government is to prioritise a full fuse with seatbelts for all, we are talking about a cost of 700-800 million. kr. We also need to assess whether the benefits of road safety work are greater by using the money here or whether it is larger by using the money for other road safety measures. In the world in which I am, where we need to give priority between different actions, there is also a part of this image that we have to look at, and that we have to come back to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e901	That is precisely why the Progress Party wants to ensure that the extra cost is financed by Stortinget, because we know that there are many municipalities that are struggling with the economy. This is not a statutory task, while most of the other tasks of county councils are statutory, and it is often this type of task that loses against the statutory tasks. I'm concerned when I see the conclusion and the summary in the Sintef report. When I hear what the Council of State says now, I am also concerned about whether the state and the political majority will go in and ensure the safe and sound transport of children by school bus. Many parents are concerned and believe that there is an unsustainable situation as it is now, with many children standing on the school bus. We can be happy that, fortunately, so far, the major accidents have not happened. I hope the Council of State will come back. In these Christmas seasons, it is likely that you can have some Christmas wishes. One Christmas wish is for the Council of State to come back quickly, so that this problem can be solved and ensure that all children in Norway get safe and secure school transportation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e910	In this sweet Christmas time it is quite clear that it is allowed to have such pious and good wishes, and that certainly many will share with the representative Hoksrud. So I can't stand here as a Christmas event, but I promise that we will handle this matter in a neat and good way and come back to Stortinget with one thing. There are several steps here. One is about securing all the seats, the other is about all the buses having their seatbelts installed. The fact that everyone has to have a seat must at least be the first step that we have to put in place, because kids are going to be on a bus, and I also think of it as a very little lucky solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e920	‘By virtue of the Eurovignette Directive, Norway may be required to ensure that the discount schemes for large trucks when passing tolls are significantly reduced. [[2006/38/EC]] The impact will be increased throughput costs and thus increased costs both in existing and planned projects where tolls are used. The Directive also provides for the earmarked use of tolls in order to reduce the ‘external costs’ of transport. How does the Council of State follow up the impact of the Eurovignette Directive on, where appropriate? approval is granted in Norway?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e927	Eurovignette Directive 2006/38/EC is a 1999 revision of the original Eurovignette Directive, which is part of Norwegian law. The 2006 Directive sets a maximum discount limit of 13 pst. This limit is problematic for Norway since we are currently operating with discounts up to 50 pst. For this reason Norway has still not implemented this Directive and has asked the Commission for a text to be adapted. In the adaptation text, Norway requests a general derogation from the discount limit for both existing and future toll projects. Norway is currently in dialogue with the Commission on the adaptation text. We are actively working to find a solution that takes care of Norwegian interests. I have taken this up at a meeting with both the French Presidency and the EU Commissioner for Transport. I feel that we have a good process. Article 9 of the 2006 Directive states that revenues from tolls are to be used for actions that benefit the transport sector and that can optimise the whole transport system. This does not create any problem in relation to Norwegian toll policy, where toll revenue is used for the specific project or package. The Commission presented a proposal for a revised Directive in July 2008. It's here, among other things. proposed that there may be a supplement to external-cost toll rates. It has been proposed that, in the case of environmental measures, this Appendix should be clearly identified. The proposal is now in the hands of the Council and Parliament. Norway follows closely the work on the new Directive and with a view to exerting an influence where necessary in accordance with Norwegian interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e936	Thanks for the answer. The Ministry of Transport is familiar with the new 2006 Directive. It is also true that we have dealt with a number of new transport projects where tolls are used. One of those who have been treated and who are affected is St.prp. No 87 for 2006-2007, E6 Gardermoen-Colomoen. This trans-European road network in Norway covers most European roads in Norway. I have registered that there are 14 toll systems today where there are discounts of up to 50 pst. Unfortunately, many new packages are on the way and 14 installations are covered. We're in a hurry to get a clarification. When do the Governments expect this Directive to be recognised by Norway as part of the EEA Agreement, if appropriate?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e945	Estimating the exact time is difficult for me today, but we have a good process and a concrete process with Commissioner Tajani, who is Commissioner for Transport. I've had a meeting with him, and we've added up to a concrete follow-up of it, which we're now implementing. So over the coming six months, this should be clarified.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e950	It has direct implications for projects on the way forward, where tolls are used. In reply, the Council of State also stated that an addition had been made to the original Directive. It allows for cross-subsidisation, to cover the costs of so-called environmental damage and the ability to cover operations and maintenance. Can this mean that tolls in Norway will be used for such measures, i.e. to cover maintenance on new roads and that new taxes, so-called environmental taxes, can be introduced on existing roads?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e957	The very concrete interpretation of the text is the basis on which we have taken advantage of any additional requirement for environmental measures in the broad sense. The original text mentions the development of alternative infrastructure for transport users and the reduction of the transport sector as a source of emissions, etc. It's a wide range. It is optional to charge external-cost charges. There's one thing we don't have a job at per. today. If it will be part of a further directive later, we do not know anything about it today, but it is at least per. voluntary today. At the meeting with the Commission, we were given a clear understanding that, in the case of measures, a broad definition of them could be drawn up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e969	‘The Hidra Landfast tunnel project in Flekkefjord, West Agder, is almost fully financed at 284 million. kr. The project can be started quickly. The Ministry of Transport needs to clarify the alternative use of ferry subsidies as soon as possible, namely an extension of the period for the use of ferry subsidies as investment funds and toll financing, from 15 to 20 years. The municipality and county council have for a long time been in vain asking for a meeting on the matter. I also refer to written question No. 1567 for 2007-2008. Will the Council of State now provide for a period of operation of 20 years?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e976	As I recently did well in my answer to a written question, no. 1567, the Government now assesses the arrangements for the alternative use of holiday facilities. In this context, the length of the annual reimbursement period from the country is also assessed. I may want to return to Stortinget with the matter. The responsibility for the most important of the national roads will otherwise be transferred to the county municipalities through the administrative reform. This means that county councils will be responsible for the permissions of the downgraded road network as of 2010. The funds must therefore be taken from the general framework provided by the State of the county. Hidra Landfast must have full funding to start up, and this will be a municipal responsibility from 2010 onwards. It is up to the county council to assess whether it is advisable to use a system of alternative use of ferry services. In that case, the reimbursement will have to be made within the county's own budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e985	I thank you for the answer, although it might not have been exactly as I wanted. Work on a subsea tunnel link between Hidra and the mainland has been in progress for many years, and there is a cross-political agreement on this project. But now many of us seem to be drawing out with the fundamental clarifications and the further progress, even though the Council of State says that here it can become municipal. The question of toll claims is, in fact, crucial to whether the operating grant is granted for 20 years. Can the Minister for Transport today recommend the State Road Administration Region South to send a toll application involving net operating grants for 20 years?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e994	If one wants to send a toll request from the State Road Service, which then has to be approved by the local government, it is a matter that the State Council should not mean anything. It has to be evaluated there. And if one wants to spend a longer time than the 15 years that per. Today, as confirmed by the previous government, and which we have not changed so far, but which is now under assessment, is also an assessment that one must do locally. As otherwise, I don't want any units of reasoning on how to design a toll request, because it's a local case, and it has to decide locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e1001	Thank you for your clarification. I am aware that the Council of State and the Government are now working on projects in 2009 in connection with this so-called crisis package. I am sure that the Council of State will have many questions about this, but can the soon completed Hidra Landfast project be an appropriate project to give people jobs in 2009?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e1008	I'm not fully up-to-date with Hidra Landfast. But as it emerges from the questions that have now been asked, it may seem to me that this matter is not ripe to be started in 2009, if a toll application has not yet been made. But I must say it again that I do not know the matter, because I have not had the matter on my table. What is important in relation to a package is that we have projects that can be started quickly, which can then provide an activity boost and ensure that people who otherwise have to go into unemployment will retain an important job for both their region and for the country. If this is such a project, I can unfortunately not give any more concrete answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e1019	‘The size has over time prioritised operation and maintenance on the railway. Nevertheless, we are experiencing major problems, especially in the Oslo area. This year is expected to be a new record year in the number of passenger traffic settings. In 2001, approximately the same amount was used for operations and maintenance as it is added up for 2009, i.e. in 2007 kroner. What action will the Council of State take to reverse the negative trend and intensify efforts to address railway operational problems?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e1026	I refer to my answer to written question No. 330 from Borghild Tenden, Depositary Representative, in a letter dated 2 December. and to my answer to the question from the big business representative Arne Sortevik in Question Time on Wednesday 19 November, when I answer a similar question. The higher the number of passenger traffic settings in 2009, including: by train settings to perform the necessary maintenance on the railway line. This is particularly true in the Oslo area because of the work on upgrading the Oslo tunnel and the large work going on in the West Corridor. Increased use of capacity, especially in the case of waste traffic where capacity is used in several locations on the network, has also made it more difficult to carry out the necessary maintenance on the railway line effectively without creating problems for train traffic. I have good faith that the operational stability of train traffic will improve as soon as the repair work in the Oslo tunnel is completed, and not least when the work in the West Corridor is completed in 2011. Unfortunately, shifting accumulations and governments over time have not given priority to the operation and maintenance of the railway to an adequate degree. This means that large parts of the network have old technical installations which are required to maintain in order to ensure the operational stability of train traffic. This is also why I have been required to give priority to operating permits and to maintain higher levels during the 2006-2009 planning period than was foreseen in the adopted planning framework. As I said in my contribution to the budget debate in the context of the 2009 budget management process, the biggest challenge is to get the day-to-day operation in order to ensure better and more operationally stable train traffic. The high age of the technical installations means that there is still a need for high priority for the maintenance and renewal of the existing network, which I will return to in the context of the National Transport Plan 2010–2019. I have noticed that the representative of Storing Borghild Tenden in his question refers to the fact that the commitment to operation and maintenance in 2009 is about the same real level as it was in 2001. I do not know where Tenden has spoken from, but this government has increased its commitment to operating and maintaining the network by around 550 million in 2009. Compared to the Bondevik II government proposal in the 2006 budget, converted into a 2009 budget. Thus, the 2009 laureate is about 500 million. kr higher than an even distribution of the planning frame in the national transport plan 2006-2009. However, I am particularly pleased that the representative Tenden and the majority in Stortinget have joined this necessary increase in the railway works’ operating and maintenance budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e1039	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In terms of numbers, they're actually taken from the government's own documents. So to the follow-up question. The left is busy getting more road and rail for the money, and without this going out on the employees – to have said that, I don't want to meet it again. The Minister for Transport sees that it is possible to impose road sections on functional contracts, as has been done for road maintenance, in order to be able to impose stricter requirements on, inter alia, road maintenance. uptime so as to be able to take responsibility for the various sections of the track? I know that, among other things: on the Gjøvik course is busy with just this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e1048	First, if the maintenance budget of the Railway Agency is the same in 2009 as in 2001, it means that I have spent the last three years correcting the cuts made by the Bondevik II Government in its operating and maintenance budget in the period 2003-2006. I guess the table that I have can show you that that's right. In 2001, there were 3,349 million. NOK 3,801 million in 2009. kr – to be accurate, convert to 2009 kr. Functional contracts along the way have been a mixed success. From around the country we have been told that one is not happy with the maintenance on the road after a start with functional contracts, and that the standard has fallen. We'll see about that. Before I have received the answer as to whether the conclusion of functional contracts has led to poorer maintenance on the road, I do not want to go that way by rail. But now it is also such that maintenance contracts, a large part of them, are also on offer in the railway system.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e1055	I thank you again for the answer. In my last question I want to look forward in time. In today's spontaneous questioning session, the Prime Minister was challenged on the crisis package that is now being worked on in the Government. The Prime Minister mentioned inter alia: that green immediate measures for rail and public transport could be applied. My concern is very much linked to the Oslo Tunnel, which was also discussed by the Council of State. My concern is that it only works 3.5 hours per day. night, and that collective travellers are constantly prevented from coming to work and kindergarten due to signal failure. The Minister of Transport says that we have to wait until 2012 to make it better. But then I think, could this be part of the crisis package, so that the construction industry can put in everything they have, to do something with the Oslo tunnel?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e1062	Current schedules are correct to give the project normal track access of 3.5 hours during the day. That is why I set up a separate project group where both the NSB and others operating on the railway network have looked at how one can get additional access in time. That is why I have now changed the timetable, which is binding between the parties, and which was not adaptable to effective progress, so that more time is available. The same group continuously assesses how to give more access to the Railway Station in order to speed up the repairs. When it applies to the economy, we have provided all the funds requested by the Railway Agency. So they've got 100 pst. of the wishes they have had for this particular project, which I consider to be the most important thing in order to do something about the settings we have had in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e1072	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The decision of the Post and Telecommunications Authority of 17 November 2008 means that mobile operators lose an important incentive for the development of a new mobile network. It has been a political objective to set up a third network for competition and increased mobile coverage throughout the country. If the planned deployment of networks fails, this could mean the loss of hundreds of jobs, which should be avoided in times of crisis. Will the Council of State support the objective of a new network and provide rapid clarification to prevent job creation and job loss?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e1081	The purpose of the regulation of the Norwegian electronic communications market is to ensure good, reasonable and forward-looking electronic communications services across the country through the effective use of society’s resources by facilitating resilient competition and stimulating business development and innovation. In order to facilitate competition, postal and telecommunications regulators point out their strong market position in a number of predefined markets and impose specific regulatory obligations to help address identified competition problems in the markets. One of the regulated markets is the mobile termination market. The background to this regulation is that in practice, providers have the possibility to set monopoly prices at the termination of calls, so-called termination, on their own networks, and that their customers are invoiced for the termination price. In 2007 the Post and Telecommunications Authority took decisions whereby Telenor ASA and NetCom AS have, from 1 July of this year, a symmetric level of their termination prices. The termination rates of the two companies will be reduced to 45 øre in 2010 via a step-by-step model. The majority of traffic in Norway is terminated in these two nights. The oversight also required Tele2 to reduce its termination prices in this round of decisions. The decision on NetCom and Tele2’s prices was appealed to the Ministry as the Board of Appeal. The part of the decision relating to NetCom was held by the Ministry. On the basis of new information from Tele2 that the company together with Network Norway AS had concrete plans to build a common mobile network, it was decided that Tele2’s termination prices should not be reduced until the Governing Authority had been given an overview of the new situation. Tele2’s case was therefore sent back to the Post and Telecommunications Authority for a new assessment. In the case of the new supervisory decision, this suggests that providers other than Telenor and NetCom will gradually reduce their termination prices from next year. The Ministry of Transport is the Board of Appeal for the decision of the Postal and Telecommunications Authority. The deadline for appeal was 8 December this year, and the department has registered that it has received seven complaints. If, after having considered the complaints, the Post and Telecommunications Authority finds that it intends to maintain its decision, the supervision, in line with the guide rules for the review of complaints by decision, shall send the complaints together with the statement of objections to the Ministry by 8 February 2009. Complaints will then be handled in the department. The Ministry is aware of the robust framework conditions in the mobile market. The Ministry is also concerned about carrying out a thorough and defensive handling of cases. Complaints will be handled as quickly as possible in this context. At this point in time, I am unable to comment on the facts of the case, as complaints lie with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e1092	I would like to thank you for your answer. This is a complicated regulatory matter, but the consequences of mishandling here will be quite simple and to the extent serious. As far as I understand, part of the reason for the Post and Telecommunications Authority is that it wants to adapt this legislation to developments in the EU. But now the situation in the EU is dramatically different from that in Norway. Most EU countries have good competition on mobile networks — there are many mobile networks in use — while Norway has a duopol, only two networks. It is also true that some EU countries do not go in the direction currently proposed by the Postal and Telecommunications Authority, nor do Norway have obligations per year. to comply today with the decision of the Postal and Telecommunications Authority. Does the Council not see that the argument about EU adaptation in this case is almost meaningless in view of the fact that we have a duopoly, and that we need regulation for a period now to ensure good competition in our mobile market?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e1103	In general, I am of the opinion that we should not leap off our legs to adapt to the situation in the EU in different areas. This means that in the current cases, I am going to look closely at the situation in the case complex, what is the current EU legislation, and whether we are somehow obliged to follow it. It is important for us to have good services throughout the country, that we have a good competition, and it is important that there is an incentive to continue to expand to even better cover the whole country, and not just a competition that can sometimes seem to be active only in the biggest cities. There's also a moment that I want to take with me on the purely general plane, but I can't go into the actual handling here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e1110	I thank you for that answer too. As far as I understand it, actors are now ready to deploy networks. This will lead to activity in the construction sector and will give rise to motivation for other actors to increase their coverage across the country. But what we know now is that the framework conditions for making large investments in Norway are very exposed to the financial crisis, and any such regulatory uncertainty will create major problems in starting this type of investment. Therefore, progress in this process will be extremely important in initiating these investments and in enabling these actors to get started. In its first reply, the Council of State said that the Ministry will not have this matter until 8 February 2009, as far as I understood. Does the Council see any possibility of speeding up this process, so that we avoid an unnecessary delay in the construction of a third mobile network in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e1121	As the deadline for appeals was 8 December and the Post and Telecommunications Authority had to have a chance to go through the complaints that have come, in a defenceable way, and consider whether to reverse their decision – something that they may decide to do – and we now have a Christmas weekend that actually extends this year over two weeks, more or less, I think it is difficult to go beyond what is normal here, namely that the Postal and Telecommunications Authority should have two months to make its assessment. Then I want us to deal with any matter that comes to us in a quick and effective way, and I'll try to contribute to it as well as I can.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e1129	This is almost the Minister for Transport's Question Time, I would have almost said! I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Before the publication of new tenders for public service obligations, the Ministry invited to participate. [[FOT]] South-Trom Regional Council and Ofoten Regional Council together with Trom County Council have documented needs and made clear recommendations for a better adapted regional flight offer across Evenes. The call for FOT for the 2009-2012 period shows that the recordings have not been taken into account at all, and a route offer and a pricing that affects the Evens very negatively. What is the Council of State's explanation for this?'
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e1140	The State buys services on the regional air route network in Norway for over one and a half billion kroner a year. The purchase takes place through bidding where airlines compete for routes imposed by the Ministry of Transport, known as ‘public service obligations’, abbreviated the FOT. The routes are purchased on contracts as liabilities for three years at a time. The Ministry of Transport has recently been offered on a regular service of 18 route areas, which shall be valid for three years from 1 April 2009. These contracts will be awarded equally over the New Year. Government purchases of air routes at Harstad/Narvik Airport, Evenes was among the favourites that were recorded to the Ministry of Transport before this bidding round. Harstad/Narvik Airport, Evenes is currently not covered by the government purchase of regional air routes. In the assessment of the purchase of air routes, the Ministry of Transport has taken into account traffic standards and traffic developments on routes, both for routes currently purchased by the State and for other routes. Within the current air route purchase framework, no room was found to include new routes in the state air route purchase during this round. The routes currently purchased by the State include about 6 pst. of the total air traffic in Norway, measured in the number of departing passengers. The rest are commercial routes. So it's still the way that most of the passengers fly on routes that the airlines set up on a commercial basis. Statens Flyrutekauf is, and should be, a supplement where the market is not sure of an air route offer. As a result of our having a liberalised aviation market, it is up to the airlines themselves to determine schedules and ticket prices on the routes where the State is not involved in the operation. At Harstad/Narvik Airport, Evenes is a commercial route to and from Oslo, Bodø and Tromsø. The state purchases routes between Narvik Airport, Framnes and Bodø. There is a functioning bus and scheduled boat service in the region. In sum, I consider the existing route offer to be satisfactory and have not gone into the process of extending the public purchasing of air routes to routes at Harstad/Narvik Airport, Evenes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e1155	I thank you for the answer, but the Council of State probably understands that I wanted a different answer than that. For the region and for the business community located in the North and South Troms, which have strong links both down towards Helgeland and towards Finnmark, with routes through Tromsø and Bodø, we know that there is a very poor route offer today. In fact, short encounters north and south of this region have to spend a whole day. So I want to ask the Council of State again: what kind of assessment is the basis for continuing to buy routes at the airports around Evenes, that is, Framneslia in Narvik and the Andes, and providing good connections that way, while the business community that soccers to Evenes is still going to be fed off with a very bad offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e1164	It is a surprising situation that representatives of the party who wished to close down and reduce the supply of the regional network in the previous period are now considering increasing the supply of the regional network. So that's how the world turns around. What we have taken into account when we have assessed this matter is what traffic base is at the various airports, where it is impossible to keep a commercial offer going, and each one sees that it is possible to do so. At that airport it has been possible, and there is still a commercial offer. And again, it's strange that a party that's occupied by the private initiative and private solutions, order the state to enter and take over the territory where private today operates commercial operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e1171	As the Council of State is aware, the proposal to shut down Framneslia just to get a better offer of Evenes, and it was thought that the airport that is currently the parent airport of Narvik could also be the regional airport of the region. State councils are also well aware of the major Halogalandsbru project, which will also involve switching in Framneslia and getting Harstad/Narvik airport, Evenes as a larger and more important airport, which will also receive these regional route services routed through it. But the question is whether the Council of State is comfortable with the fact that, especially the oil industry, to name it, which is big and heavy in Harstad, and which has important connecting lines down towards Helgeland and not least up to Hammerfest, will not get a hearing, even when it has an overall business life in a large region behind it, and also the county municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e1178	It is important to look at supply in this region in a context, and therefore it is also relevant to follow up the Narvik decision in relation to the construction of a bridge when we now consider which measures are to be included in the national transport plan, and therefore also in the context of the assessment of Narvik Airport, Framnes. So far no decision has been taken on this, but it is one of the measures that one assesses in relation to seeing the whole situation in the context. We have kept up Narvik Airport, Framnes in line with the Stortinget's decision in connection with the previous National Transport Plan, and we follow up the Soria Moria declaration of principle that the Airports are held up unless it is locally desired to settle down. There is a more relevant discussion than discussing whether to go further with purchases at the major airports in the area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e1186	«The time of the world reports on Monday 8 December that the police have no opportunity to move out when people without legal ID papers are stopped on Svinesund, and that they are thus only allowed into the country with a note on the address of the Police Foreign Unit in Oslo. What will the Council of State do to put an end to this practice?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e1193	This issue may have been a resource page in the first place, and there has been a wide-ranging debate in the United Kingdom on many occasions. I don't think I'm going to go into all the measures, but I want to point to some of the issues that the questioner is addressing. As a member of the Schengen cooperation, there shall be no permanent border control on the border with other Schengen countries, such as: Sweden. However, each police district shall carry out so-called territorial checks, including identity checks. In recent years, specialised cars from the police have patrolled border areas, among other things. in Follo, Østfold and Hedmark. In cases where the police discover through their control that the foreigner does not have ID papers, it may be expelled from the country. If he/she wishes to apply for asylum, he/she will be legally resident in the country while the application for asylum is pending. When the applicant for asylum arrives at the Kingdom, this meeting shall be held at the nearest police authority or at the Foreign Office of the Police in Oslo. In the case of reporting to a police district, the district should carry out a number of tasks, including: circulars and regulations. However, local police districts consider each case separately, and actions are implemented in the light of the assessments made and the priorities that appear to be necessary from the overall tasks of the police district. The task of the police district in the field of asylum is most often assessed in cooperation with the Foreign Affairs Department of the police. According to Gardermoen Police Station, it'll be, for example, have always taken fingerprints and carried out a visit to the persons who report there and who wish to apply for asylum. I have to admit that I think it's a good solution, sail if you can't do it anywhere, for both equipment and crew. The Ministry of Justice's circular on this issue, 63/2000 and 64/2000, is currently under review in the Police Directorate, but is in force as far as they fit. I think I will be very careful to say that the questioner's theme, to be able to get in faster also with asylum seekers, who are not necessarily people who have committed criminal offences, and who are to be dealt with then, should now be highlighted in the review of, among other things. these rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e1211	I see the more general considerations presented by the Council of State, but it is obviously a situation on Svinesund that has not been there before – it is not a normal situation on Svinesund. Svinesund is probably the border crossing to the rest of the world that Norway has, which is most comparable to the Gardermoen in traffic. And it makes no sense, when a user uses such a lot of resources as one does in relation to the id-less, in relation to the sending of people who do not have legal residence in the kingdom – and it seems very easy to be able to cross one of the country's largest border crossings – that one who is taken without ID papers does not get any further follow-up. The Council of State will consider launching measures now in Swinesund, such as: the persons who are exposed are warned there, and, where appropriate, transported once a day to the Foreign Office of the Police in Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e1218	There are several measures now under consideration, including immediate action, in relation to the issue raised by the representative Höie. As you know, for 2008 and 2009, it was decided here in Stortinget to strengthen the foreign policy of the police. Within that strengthening, which then takes place from 1 January, there are several factors that should be considered in relation to the identity control of foreign and asylum-seeker arrivals, among others. to improve efficiency, to strengthen the efforts to clarify the identity, to detect illegal residence, and not least to ensure registration within a short period of time. The situation that is at Svinesund, and also at other border crossings, we want to be involved in that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e1225	It's okay with the more general considerations that the Minister of Justice comes up with, but our point, and what I also see is the point of those who work on Svinesund, is that this is not a lucky situation. That's also what customs inspector Per Kristian Grandahl says. This is a situation that has arisen on Svinesund now. Will the Council of State now do something to ensure that this situation does not persist until a possible permanent solution to this issue is reached?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e1232	As regards both the fight against crime and the exercise of the administrative functions of the police, the fact that police districts control both funds and how to organise work, there are some general rules for this. I don't think it's right for me to go into one geographical area and say that now political leadership in the Ministry of Justice or the Government is going to intervene. What is important to us is that we now have our own rules in place, a good circular, and that we also have to implement the reinforcement of the police's foreign work that just takes into account what the questioner is also concerned about, that registration is carried out as soon as possible, and that as little as possible is avoided from being registered and getting the process on their asylum case.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e1242	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘The consequences of the police manning crisis are now starting to show itself seriously in crime statistics. Numbers from Sunnmore police districts, like many other police districts, show that drug reports in particular are falling dramatically. We know that drug issues are almost exclusively the result of investigation and active police work, and are down-prioritised when police resources are scarce. What will the Council of State do to prevent this development from continuing?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e1251	I guess I wouldn't use as strong terms as the crew crisis in the Norwegian police force. But as a short answer to the question, I would say that we won't do the same thing as the Right did when they put in government in the last period, namely to add up to such a low admission of police college students as 240 per. years, up to 360. We don't want to do that. That is what today is causing us to have low crews in the Norwegian police force. Because not many policemen are available. If under the previous government had chosen to lay down at the level of the current government, we would have 600 more policemen, and we would also have more policemen on Sunnmøre, among others. to deal with the drug issues in which the requester is concerned. Because it is certainly important – and we agree – that this type of crime be detected. It is the police director and the police districts who manage the funds that are being allocated at all times. The police chief in Sunnmøre police district reported in October this year that the district over several years has worked well to combat drug crime. The district is divided into five geographical holdings, and on all holdings there are officials working to combat drug crime. At Ålesund Police Station, which belongs to the Centre holding, a separate section is organised for, among others. the analysis and fight against drug crime. The chief of police has informed us that the district will strengthen its efforts to combat drug crime in the future. For example: More serious drug issues have been identified in the district in order to promote new jobs with specific competence in the field in 2009. I'm very happy about that. You can do that, among other things. Because in recent years the government has chosen to increase the budget of the police beyond the level at which we took over in 2005, but also because, as mentioned above, increasing the rate of education at the Police College will help us actually to fill the posts, so that there will also be people who can investigate serious drug crime. I also believe that there needs to be different thoughts about increasing police staff, including in relation to drug issues. In particular, involving more civilians in the police force may help to relieve more police officers to perform police operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e1266	It is true, as the Council of State here says, that the police at Sunnmøre have been very competent in drug investigation for many years, but now statistics show a dramatic decline and worse results, and that is what I am trying to address here. And it's very doubtful and hopeless when, on every occasion, the Council of State owes it to previous governments, because everyone knows that the crisis in the police is primarily the result of insufficient means of operation that lead to positions becoming vacant. So also at Sunnmøre police district, which today only has 1.12 posts per year. 1000 inhabitants. The national average is 1.8, and the size has said it should be up to 2 jobs per year. 1000 inhabitants. Does the Council of State think it is right that there is such a difference in the level of personnel from district to district, and what will the Council of State do to ensure that Sunnmøre police districts get up to at least the average of 1.8, and thus be able to take up the vacant posts without going into economic bankruptcy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e1273	I thought I heard economic bankruptcy. This is not the situation for either the Sunnmare police district or the police in Norway. Last year, the Norwegian police transferred over 250 million. kr from the last year's budget to the current year's budget. There's no bankruptcy situation. It's a sign that you actually don't spend the money you've been given in a year. The main challenge now is to get a crew. That's why I'm concerned about pointing out that three years after you brought up students at the Police College, you notice the low recording. That's why it's relevant to talk about what the previous government did about this. It is also relevant to look at the responsibility of the current government, we have chosen to turn up the number of seats to record 552, which is far above twice the level it has been at in the past. It's clear that it's absolutely essential to get more people to go to Sunnmare. When it comes to the second part of the question, I probably can't answer it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e1282	When I said ‘economic bankruptcy’, it is clear that if the employees in the vacant positions, they must either cut very much on the offer to the users, or they will not deal with their budgets financially. In More and Romesdal, and in Sunnmare in particular, we also have a business life that requires a lot of work immigration. There are many different nationalities and languages. Unfortunately, this mix leads to a number of disturbances of order, such as: fights and drunkenness. Language problems often lead the police to leave the cases to save the large extra costs incurred by the interpreters. Does the Council agree with me that police districts with additional expenditure on interpreters should be compensated for the costs that such services incur from a pre-retirement budget? Or does the Council of State think that we should accept lawless conditions among migrant workers who violate Norwegian law?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e1291	With respect to reporting: there are no districts in Norway that could say that there are illegal conditions among migrant workers. I think we would make a lot of money in this debate taking it all down a little bit to look at what kind of challenge the Norwegian police are actually facing. To the question of interpretative expenditure: If you were to start compensating the districts directly for this, I am afraid that the big loser, among other things. would be Sunnmare, because there are other districts that would then get even more of the common pot than the Sunnmare would actually get. But that does not mean that we are not observant that interpreting expenditure is too large for many districts, and that is precisely one of the reasons why the government has chosen – at the latest yesterday – to invite the Stortinge to give the police extra money, so that you get more room for operation. Yesterday, a hundred and fifty million extras were allocated to the police, and this only follows the large appropriations that have been made available to the police in the last few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e1301	I would like to ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: ‘Firing is approximately: 50 pst. of the total use of bioenergy. Only in Eastfold, Akershus, Oslo and Hedmark is it a huge wood resource to take off, which is 12.5 million cubic metres, and that deciduous forest areas are increasing every year throughout the country. It appears that the Government does not see these resources and does not stimulate increased use of wood for heating purposes. Will the Council of State contribute to stimulating more use of wood as a source of heating?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e1310	I support the representative's view that it is an important and renewable energy source. Reheating is a traditional source of heating in Norway. The wood accounted for around 7 TWh in Norway in 2006 for a total bioenergy consumption of 14.5 TWh. Reheating is a known and readily available technology and the functioning of its turnover is satisfactory. In urban areas, however, it has been a disadvantage that maintenance has been a major contributor to local air pollution. Local air quality is the responsibility of the municipalities. Today we have clean-burning furnaces that provide better use of wood and less local air pollution. In order to improve air quality and to promote energy conversion, some municipalities have established support schemes for the replacement of old wood stoves with new and more clean furnaces. The figures from the Statistical Central Bureau show that 41 pst. the wood used in 2007 was burned in clean-burning furnaces. This is an increase of 23 pst. since 2002. There is reason to believe that maintenance consumption is increasing this year as it is called — as in 2005. This shows that refuelling is an important source of heating for many and that it contributes to the flexibility of the energy system. It's important. We have established grant schemes to stimulate the increased use of renewable heat. These are intended to help enhance the availability of mature technologies that are currently not widely available on the market. These are support programmes aimed at the establishment of district heating and local heating centres, pellet boilers and heat pumps. It is a competitive energy carrier and therefore has not received a subsidy under Enova’s programmes. The Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food are both responsible for bioenergy policy. The latter, through Innovation Norway's Bioenergy Programme, provides support for the establishment of heating facilities on agricultural properties. This may include, inter alia: be quadruple boilers used as fuel. The stakes on this have now been strengthened. The market for wood is ripe. Switching to clean-burning furnaces is profitable and is an easily accessible source of energy. I therefore believe it is more important now to use support for energy conversion for measures other than maintenance, which would not have been implemented without public support. As regards the question to the representative Bredvold relating to the incentive for use of wood, I believe that the provider side here is important. It is important that we have a serious and up-to-date manufacturing industry. In this way, I believe that a generally good forestry policy and a generally good agricultural policy are important. Without that, we're not going to have an offer of by knowing that farmers and forest owners are still on as part of their nutrient base. From this point of view, I believe that the contributions made by this government to both forestry policy and agricultural policy have been important to ensure that by being an attractive product to use for heating also in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e1329	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was a good answer – until I fell off a little at the end. If I understood correctly, there were other measures than support for maintenance that were now in force. I understood it like this. And then I fell off a little when he said seriously wooded. Does the State Council suggest that the maintenance industry has been or is unprofessional? The two things I want an answer to. When you look at a statistics on aid to pellet plants, it's given to 1,800, if my numbers are right. For example, in Hedmark, it is given to 221. In Hedmark it lives approx. 180 000 people. That is to say, there are not so many people who have cared so much about the support of pellet stoves, and that may be so. have to do with the fact that a pellet stove is expensive for purchase, significantly more expensive than a wood stove. In addition to the pellets themselves, you depend on electricity to make a pellet stove work. A wood stove may be used at any time during the day, and it does not require electricity, e.g. in a crisis situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e1336	I cannot argue better for today's policy than the representative of Bredvold now did. That's exactly what Bredvold is saying here, which is why we have the support system we have today. In terms of whether the maintenance industry is serious or not, my point was to facilitate its development, based on just serious tree turnover. It's important and correct, and I have no idea other than that that's the state per. today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e1343	Otherwise, this is a part of the climate as well. It is claimed that in the case of a polluter, but if it pollutes as much when it lies and rots in the forest as it does when it is used for firing to cause heat. This, of course, saves a lot of money on electricity like this. are imported from coal-fired power plants. So also there should be a carrot, to say it like that. We're in and we're helping to make it a better climate. My hope is that the Council of State and his department look at even more things that can be done to stimulate people to use as a source of heating.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e1348	I just have to repeat what I said in my first post, that I think the use of wood makes sense. I agree with the representative of Bredvold that climate is at a good time. It's CO2 neutral. We have better technology in the case of wood stoves than we have before, and we see that private households both use and switch to more clean-burning stoves. So my assessment is that there's a lot of good and positive in terms of wood turnover and re-use, and that's something I'm happy about. As I said, not least at the time I was Minister of Agriculture and Food, I was committed to helping to stimulate the provider side by having a good forestry policy and a good agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e1359	‘Where there is no room in the care centres for minor asylum seekers, they shall be temporarily located. Security is important for any child. Fast and many moves are unfortunate for most children. What will the Council of State do to ensure that temporarily placed children are provided with a foreseeable and optimal housing situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e1366	The Children's Act has clear provisions for single minor asylum seekers under 15 years of age. As soon as they have applied for asylum with the police, the children shall be transferred to the care centre under the protection of the child. But, as the representative was in the room, the prognosis has increased a lot. On 14 December we received 193 children in relation to 30, which was the forecast. 113 of these are located in care centres, while 80 children are placed in temporary measures. The children's, youth and family budget of the East Region has concluded temporary placement agreements with several. All agreements contain very specific requirements regarding care, follow-up, school and any other needs of these children. Most of these children remain in the temporary measure until they have been given a decision on their application. This will mean that some children become residents of temporary measures until they are ready to settle in the municipalities. Some children will be transferred to the newly created care centres in Hønefoss, Gjøvik or Sandnessjøen. Each child will be assessed by child-care professionals as to whether it is best for the child to move to a care centre or to remain in the care until residence or return, if any. So there's an individual child-care assessment on a case-by-case basis. This assessment also assesses the offer made by children in the interim measures. Children placed in measures where there is any doubt that the measure is satisfactory will be moved first. Given the challenges of caring for the high number of minor asylum seekers, it is absolutely necessary to use private measures. At the same time, children have the right to have an offer of a stay in the care centre, and this is done on an ongoing basis when the capacity of the centres so warrants. The private measures have interim agreements which expire when the capacity of the child protection centres is now increased.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e1377	I thank you for your answer. A few weeks ago, I became acquainted with a few minor asylum seekers who have been temporarily placed. Neither they nor their guards have been given a decision on this temporary placement. The children have lived in the country for six months. One of the reasons why these have now been proposed is the safety that this environmental home has been able to create among these kids. I am pleased that the Council of State says that there are measures in which each child is evaluated. But when security becomes one of two arguments that are used to move the child, I think it seems quite special, also in view of what the council says, that one hopes that the child can stay temporarily until the application is settled. It was promised in this case, but not followed up. Does the Council see any possibility of going in and looking at the system to find out if it works as she wants?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e1386	I'm in close dialogue with the directorate on the practice. We have examples that children who have been adopted have nevertheless not been transferred because it did not appear to have been proper in the individual case. It is therefore important to look at whether the measure in which the child is living is good enough. Is it school? Is there good child-care skills? An individual assessment shall be made on a case-by-case basis. That doesn't always mean it's not going to be a transfer. Sometimes a transfer to a care centre is about getting the best available skills for both children and minorities. The skills we build up in care centres are very good, but for some children it will be best for them to stay in temporary measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e1391	I am absolutely sure that the expertise you have in care centres is good. But when the kids don't get there directly, moving them is a challenge. Unfortunately, in the case to which I refer, the children have not received school. That has been said by the Minister of Knowledge in an answer earlier in the Question Time today is a violation of Norwegian law. But what is perhaps the most problematic thing here is how little information the authorities get from the public. After all, it's the guards who are supposed to kind of front the children's situation and be their spokespersons and wives. In this case, the guards have not received any of these decisions that we from the public relationship to. So it's a big failure for these kids we're talking about here -- they haven't got school, and then it's the security that's created in the home, which becomes one of two reasons for moving. Does the Council of State see this to be problematic?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e1400	In many cases it is best to stay. But I'm sure that the directorate makes very good professional judgements in cases where it involves moving. An individual assessment must be made which sometimes leads to a move, sometimes involves a temporary stay in the measure, perhaps until the application has been completed. But what the representative here says about dialogue with the guards, I'm going to make sure that works well enough. Because it's obvious that it's important. It also helps to create predictability for the individual child.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-17.ana.ud2468e1407	Questions 13 and 14 are already answered. Then today's regular question time is over. Thus, today's map has been processed.
