ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e105	The representative Erling Sande, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat. They called for the alternates, for Akershu County Inge Hallgeir Solli and for Eastfold County John Thune, have taken the seat. Four permit applications are available: From the Workers' Group on the sick leave of the representative Hill-Marta Solberg from 12 February onwards and until further notice from the Working Party on the sick leave of the representative Berit Brørby from 12 February onwards and until further notice from the Right-wing Group on the sick leave of the representative Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve from 12 February onwards and until further notice from the representative Silvia K. Kosmo on welfare leave from 12 February onwards and until the end of the Spring Session of the Storting These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. - It is deemed to have been adopted. Other alternates of the State of Oppland, Stein Knutsen, are currently abroad and are therefore prevented from meeting in Stortinget under the authority of the representative Espen Johnsen. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For More and Romesdal counties: Rolf Jarle Brøske.For Nordland County: Knut Petter Torgersen.For Uppland County: Solveig Rindhølen.For Westfold County: Tom Stroemstad Olsen. Solveig Rindhölen is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of Espen Johnsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e184	Rolf Jarle Bruske, Knut Petter Torgersen, Solveig Rindhølen and Tom Stroemstad Olsen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e190	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings today and the rest of the current week - and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen. Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen are unanimously elected as chairpersons for Stortinget's meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e200	On behalf of Oge Starheim, Ib Thomsen, Jørund Rytman and myself, I am delighted to make proposals for changes to the municipal electoral system.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e205	The representative, Odd Einar Dørum, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e208	On behalf of the representatives of Vera Lysklätt, Anne Margrethe Larsen, André N. Skkelstad and myself, I am delighted to make proposals for 3,000 new posts in the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e214	Trine Skei Grande will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e217	On behalf of Lars Sponheim, Leif Helge Kongshaug and myself, I would like to make proposals to introduce the right to a business deduction for self-employed workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e222	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e235	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines following the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e244	Today we are dealing with Document No. 8:43 for 2006-2007. As rapporteur, I would like to stress that there is disagreement in the Committee's position. The various parties will therefore argue for their views, and in my speech I will stick to the vote by the majority of the committee. The proposal refers to the Law of 24 February 1995 No. 12 on Holidays and Holiday Peace, Holidays Act, Section 5, which states that permanent outlets as a general rule should remain closed on Sundays and other holidays and holidays. From this general rule there are a number of exceptions, including: for sales outlets ‘who essentially sell flowers, plants and other gardening items’, see: § 5, second paragraph, point (c) 9th@item: inlistbox This provision was incorporated in the Law on Holidays in 2003 and is a direct extension from the 1998 Act on Opening Hours. The current derogation is justified by the fact that the sale of articles for horticultural use etc. often takes place at a time when most people are free and many do gardening. In the 1985 Act of Accession, the exemption was limited to «sales of flowers and plants». The terms ‘essential’ and ‘other gardening articles’ were added in 1998 in order to better adapt to the practical needs and to the actual range of products in many garden centres. Since the introduction of the provision, there has been a significant development in the horticultural sector. This has been pointed out to the Ministry of Culture and the Church in the last two years. representatives of the iron and steel industry and of the trade and office association of employees. It is pointed out that garden centres have been established that are so large that they resemble shopping centres, with a wide range of products in addition to flowers, plants and other garden products. The Ministry of Culture and the Church has carried out a survey among some selected actors in the gardening industry. The study includes, inter alia: showed that the percentage distribution between the different product categories in relation to the annual turnover figures varies from 52 to 70 pst. in the case of flowers and plants. The percentage distribution in relation to garden articles other than flowers and plants varies from 23 to 39 pst. The percentage distribution relative to other articles varies from 7 to 11 pst. I would like to stress that this is the store's own information, and they may be uncertain. The Ministry’s view is that the exemption provision cannot be used for a general eroding of legal provisions and anti-slip provisions in relation to the current situation. The majority would stress that the Act allows the Ministry to provide detailed rules for supplementing the section on sales from fixed outlets. The majority ask the Government to consider using this home if necessary to prevent further slippage of the relevant exemption in the Holiday Act. The majority are quite clear that we don't want such a glare. There is a unclear perception of the legislation, and it is important to take into account workers, business gliders and holiday peace. The exemption provision is also interpreted differently by market players. I would like to stress that if you think that today's practice is distorting competition, the Competition Authority is an opportunity to assess this. I would like to end by stressing that the document does not deal with opening times in general, and that is why, on the part of the majority, we have not dealt with the different aspects of opening time rules as other parties in the Committee have done. We therefore recommend that the proposal be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e259	The proposers shall be commended for updating the issue of opening hours related to the sale of articles for horticultural use. The legislative and regulatory provisions in this field aim to strike a fair balance between different interests - consumers' interests on the one hand and employees' interests on the other. Just because there is a potential conflict of interest between consumers and workers, different forces will try to influence this balance. It is therefore important to have a continuous alertness to the development and practice of these provisions. The general opening time provisions are expressed by Section 5 of the Holidays Act, which states that outlets as a general rule are to be closed on Sundays and other holy and solemn days. From this general rule there are a number of exceptions, including: for points of sale ‘selling flowers, plants and other gardening material in substance’. The exemption aims to protect the interests of consumers, since the sale of articles for horticulture often takes place at a time when most people have freedom and many do gardening. However, developments in recent years may seem to undermine the general objective of the opening time arrangements. A number of garden centres have now become so large that they resemble shopping centres, with a wide range of products, far beyond flowers, plants and other gardening items. In this respect, several organisations, including Trade and Office and LO, have pointed out that current practice is not in line with the intention of the law, and they believe that one needs a tightening through regulations, including the introduction of new legislation. to strengthen the protection of employees against increased pressure on Sundays and holidays. The Workers' Party agrees with the Ministry that the exemption provisions shall not be used for the general effusion and effusion of the intentions of the Act. The Ministry now has the right to provide detailed rules on sales from points of sale, and the Workers' Party and the majority of the Committee therefore ask the Government to consider using this home if it would be necessary to prevent further slippage with regard to the relevant exemption in the Holiday Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e270	For us in the Progress Party, this matter has a strong principleal side. I want to refer here to Innst. O. No 56 for 2002-2003, on the Act amending Law No 24 February 1995 12 on Holidays and Holidays, etc. In this case, the then government - Bondevik II - went in to repeal the opening time law. The majority then said, in the form of an observation: ‘The majority of the Committee, the members of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People’s Party, will agree with the Ministry that supply and demand are more appropriate than the law to regulate opening hours. A repeal of the law will provide more flexible adaptations, which will naturally vary with industry type, location, local conditions, etc. One of the advantages of repealing the Opening Time Act is to eliminate distortions of competition which have resulted from certain types of sales being exempted from the opening time limits which have been advised.» The Progress Party continues to have this view: supply and demand are better suited than legislation to regulate opening hours. This is in our view the case, every day of the week, not only on weekdays, as the Christian People's Party seems to think. The Advance Party fought for a long time for a more open society with more freedom of choice. It was a great victory for us when the opening time adjustments in Norway were in practice lost all days except holidays. So in these days, there are exceptions that we're obviously opposed to - among other things. they have maintained the so-called Brustad-bu rules. The Party considers it inappropriate for official inspectors to carry out opening hours checks equipped with target bands. It becomes even more hopeless when Christian People's Party politicians are going to start with detailed control of what goods are being sold. You have too little to do in your spare time when you start hanging out on a garden sale selling decorative items, kitchen utensils or hammers and nails. I would also like to ask questions about the views of the Labour Party on this matter. It seems that the party is changing vision every time there is a case of opening hours. The working party was in its time central to the design of limitations in the opening hours, but in the previous growing period it seemed that a change of vision had been made in the case. Int. O. No 56 for 2002-2003.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t «The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party support the work of revising the opening times for simplification and greater ease of use.» I would also like to refer to the World Gang newspaper on July 18, 2002, where Karita Bekkemelm and Bjarne Håkon Hanssen are taking orders for Sunday-open shops, and the daily newspaper on July 15, 2002 and the VG on July 16, the same year, when Sylvia Brustad says that she regrets Brustad-bua, and that she would never promote this proposal today. None of these persons are insignificant in the context of the working party. But from the post to Britt Hildeng it seems that the Workers' Party has turned again. With regard to the specific issue in the proposal from the Christian People's Party which we are now discussing, we believe in the Progress Party that Document No. 8:43 proposes to ‘solve’ a problem that does not exist in reality. It can't be a problem for society at 10-12 pst. of the products the plantation seller is not linked to gardens, flowers and plants. I have noticed that it is the Minister of the Church who has this matter on the part of the Government. I understand that this should be a consumer matter, but let's put it aside. We in the Progress Party believe that Sunday opening of sales such as Plantation is particularly positive for the consumer. For many, the purchase of plants and garden products is a weekend activity, and I think it's actually great that we have the plantation and similar businesses, and that they have a wide and fine selection. With that, I would like to include in the vote the proposal of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e300	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has taken up the suggestion he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e303	On the right, the practice of today’s holiday legislation does not seem to be a major problem, and we cannot see any reason to tighten up this practice now. Those who have claimed in this case that they have a problem of distortion of competition should be able to address the Competition Authority, where an apparatus is capable of dealing with these issues. If any changes were to be made, in the opinion of the Right, it had to be in a liberalizing direction. But it's not that terrible a long time since we had a review of this and decided on today's system, so we don't see any reason to make any changes on this crossroads.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e312	The new section 5 of the Act on Holidays and Holiday Peace, annexed in 2003, states that permanent outlets selling goods to consumers should be closed on Sundays. The revision of the laws led to a change in the special features of the hall of flowers and plants on Sundays. The change was from the "sale of flowers and plants", as it had been in the old law of 26 April 1985 No. 20 on the opening time of outlets to ‘sales outlets selling essentially flowers, plants and other gardening items’. The Ministry thought it was a continuation of the exemption from the previous opening time law, but the change in wording has led to a slightly wider opening of the exemption. by the entry of ‘other garden articles’ in addition to flowers and plants. The Ministry’s intention was that the change be made in order to better match the practical needs, and they justified the exception that the hall of articles for horticulture often takes place at the time when most people are free, for example. on weekends, when people like to do gardening. In recent years, some chains and shops have kept their many and large outlets open for seven days a week. These actors define their outlets as plantation houses and equate with the opening time with gardening and gardening centres that sell flowers, plants and other gardening items, and are thus excluded from the opening time zones. In reality, these outlets have a range of products that go far beyond selling plants and flowers. Most of these department stores and shops compete with hardware stores, construction stores, gift shops, ordinary florists and other traditional gardening. The background for representatives from the Christian People's Party to present this Document No. The 8 is that we've seen that creativity has our big ones. We want to keep Sunday as a different day - that there may be a difference between Sundays and weekdays. We want to protect collective leisure for the many who work in the service industry, and as we know, they have long working days for the other days. By not doing anything, the pressure to have a general Sunday sleep is greater for the actors who have to keep them closed today. We don't want more and more people open on Sundays, but we want to tighten up today's legislation so that the intentions of the original legislation are followed. In the hearings of the Committee, a number of hearing bodies have supported this Document No. The 8th proposal. We've seen shops that have been open on Sundays to sell plants, advertise that they sell out all the plants to give room to the Christmas goods that come. We feel that there will be a pressure. That's why we want to give the department that handshake you need to tighten up on this. We have registered that the government party does not support Document No. The 8 proposal, but one will follow developments closely. I hope that the Government will give a clear signal, so that those who are currently engaged in pressing the regulation will understand that one must reverse. If not, there will be an extra tightening. I don't think we're looking at a development that ends up having everyone open on Sundays. I think it's important that we focus on how we can protect this day as a working day, how we can protect about the collective leisure that one has had. The representative from the Progress Party pointed to the earlier change in opening time laws, and that we were on notes there, but in the same setting one will see quite clearly that the Christian People's Party has a focus on that one wants to screen Sunday as a Sunday, and that it is not the market alone to govern - we need some political leaders. With that, I will address the proposal of the Christian People's Party in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e333	The representative May-Helen Molvær Grimstad has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e336	As a general rule, fixed outlets shall remain closed on Sundays and other public holidays. It is the Holiday Act that regulates this now, not the Opening Time Act, as before, and therefore it is under my responsibility. However, we have a number of exceptions to this requirement. The exemption for outlets that essentially sell flowers, plants and other gardening items is one of them, and I see today's discussion as a question of how we practice this exception, not whether we should have such an exception. The gardening industry has changed in recent years. Gardening centres have been established which are several times larger than before and which have a wide range of products in addition to flowers, plants and other gardening products. The provision for points of sale which essentially sell flowers, plants and other gardening items was introduced into the Act of the Holidays in 2003 and is a direct continuation of the provision as it stated in the 1998 Act of the Opening Time. The current derogation is justified by the fact that the sale of articles for horticultural use etc. often takes place at a time when most people are free and many do gardening. In the 1985 Act of Accession, the exemption was limited to «sales of flowers and plants». The terms ‘essential’ and ‘other gardening articles’ were added in 1998 in order to better adapt to the practical needs and to the actual range of products in many garden centres. The challenge is to find a fair and appropriate balance between different considerations. Consideration shall be given to both consumers, employees in the trade in goods and traders. Sunday peace is also an important consideration. The exemption provision shall not be applicable to the general elongation of legal provisions and anti-slip provisions in relation to the current situation. The Act allows the Ministry to provide detailed rules for supplementing the section on sales from fixed outlets. I clearly understand that the majority of the committee does not want to be swept over the current situation. The government will consider using the home if necessary to maintain the current situation, i.e. the status quo. It will be in the setting, for example: point out uncertainty as to the opening time arrangements applicable under this derogation. What is meant by ‘essentially’ is interpreted differently by different actors. It is also shown that it is unclear what is the limit of so-called ‘other gardening articles’. The Ministry has carried out a survey in the horticultural sector showing that the percentage distribution between different product categories according to annual turnover figures varies from 52 pst. to 70 pst. in the case of flowers and plants. This is the store's own information, and the figures may be uncertain. In my view, however, this gives a hint that garden centres still have an overweight of flowers and plants. However, concerns have emerged from other players in the industry. Among other things, Jernia and other actors have been concerned about the distortion of competition if, under this derogation, the range of products is extended to other sectors. So here's another principle that I'd like to think all parties should be concerned about, namely, equal conditions of competition for businessmen. That consideration must also be taken into account. The exemption under the Holiday Act may allow for a certain distortion of competition. Garden centres benefiting from the exemption may also market goods traded by other types of outlets, such as: an iron trade. My assessment is that such a situation is today, this distortive effect is limited, and that there is no need today to be decisive in the interests of consumers. But we have to be aware of this issue. With regard to the consideration of employees, I expect it to be possible to design good working time arrangements through agreements and frameworks laid down in the work environment legislation. For example, in occupational health and safety legislation: required to safeguard the interests of workers in terms of health, the environment and safety at work, the length of working time, breaks and leisure time, overtime and additional work. Employees of gardening centres will also be covered by these rules. I would like to stress that the Government's intention is that the exemption provision should not be used for a general breach of the provisions of the law. I see the majority position as a clear message and a support for this to continue. I will therefore follow the situation closely. The Government will consider using the regulatory home of the Holiday Act if necessary to prevent further slippage of the relevant exemption in the Holiday Act. This is going to be largely up to the industry itself. Today’s situation can be maintained if you also show stomach objectives in terms of pressing the intentions of the law and the views of the majority of the committee. So the goal is to maintain today's situation and prevent such a glare. That's where I agree with the committee number.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e362	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e366	In the last growing-up period, the then big-time representative Trond Giske wrote in Innst. O. No 56 for 2002-2003 that he and the Workers' Party supported ‘working to revise the opening time arrangements for simplification and greater user-friendliness’. The question is whether this percentage hysteria and this count of the number of products in the shelves of e.g. The plantation involves a special degree of simplification or a particular degree of ease of use. I also have to ask questions about whether this has been maintained on Sundays – i.e. that you can be allowed to shop on Sundays only the store is anxious and difficult enough to get into – is user-friendly and a simplification.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e371	The government has no plans to reintroduce the opening time law. We are comfortable with the situation that exists now, but we have a holiday law that regulates trade on Sundays. There's a lot of reasons for that. In part, as the representative Molvær Grimstad said in his speech, it has to do with people being able to have freedom at the same time. It's important for the family -- which I think the Progress Party sometimes talks about -- that you can be together on a day off. It has something to do with the other Sunday, that you have a day of the week that's calmer than others. But then you have to balance it with the consumer's need to perhaps get some goods on a Sunday as well. The Holiday Act balances these considerations - and, of course, also the consideration of employees. When we clarify that we do not want any slippage with regard to new goods, it also has to do with fair competition between traders and predictability for others who are engaged in adjoining product ranges.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e378	After the Christian People's Party presented the proposal for tightening up the regulations, we saw that operators from the industry became a little worried. One saw that there were actors who made intrusions in their product selection, and one became anxious that there would be tightenings. That's why it's very important what the government sends out to the industry. Some may now have been relieved to see that there is no tightening of the regulation. Maybe they'll keep filling up with all the goods other than plants, gardening items and flowers, and so I wonder how the council will follow up on this. For here it has been shown that it has our actors who sell minimally with flowers and who have in a way exploited the system and are open on Sundays. Do they still want to grow up, or what signal will the government send out? For one thing, there has been no response to much of this, and it has not been enforced. The most popular thing -- it can also be right from what's being said in this room -- is to be as liberal as possible, but it's going to have some negative consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e383	I believe Document No. The 8 proposal has had its effect, in the sense that some people realize that there is a limit here, and that if you don't follow the intentions of the Stortinge, you can risk new regulations. That's my signal, too. We are satisfied with the status quo, we want to continue it, but we see that a slippage can both undermine the intentions of the law and, not least, force other actors to have Sunday open to actually against the sole proprietor's own wishes. It may also have been a catalyst through this process that it is not only the employees but also a good number of employers and entrepreneurs who do not want to slip out of these provisions. They think it's good to be free on Sunday, that it's closed on Sunday, and they also see that the turnover of the bottom line also has no great benefit from keeping it open on Sundays. On the contrary, there is an increase in the cost of earnings. So I think the representative Molvær Grimstad and I have the exact same view of this, that it's a signal that someone doesn't want to slip out.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e388	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 2047]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e405	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines following the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e414	The representatives of Storting Skei Grande, Kvassheim and Ludvigsen should be commended for having taken up the proposal that we are discussing here today. It's important to look at how we can simplify the adoption process. If you read this setting and the proposals that follow, the main impression is that all parties are concerned about the issue and want the process to be simplified. But there are significant differences in how far one will go in order to achieve this in the form of decisions today. In particular, government parties are most restrained and refer to future case studies in the department, while the minority will have some clear decisions now. As the rapporteur on this matter, I have had good and continuous contact with the adoption associations, which have provided us with a lot of good information. The Associations have, among other things: the trend is that adoption of children abroad is reduced in line with the improved domestic situation of the national country. This means that if adoption is to be facilitated, new agreements with countries where there is a need for it are still to be concluded. Many people feel that the legislation for potential adoptive parents is becoming more rigid. The possibility of adoption is linked to factors such as education, income, age and health. Of course, people with good physical and mental health are wanted, but they may have become too rigid. The regulatory framework provides too much discretion and individual judgement for the applicants concerned, and this discretion should be used. The procedure has been set up today, and adoption applicants are given a pre-consent to adoption in Norway before the case is sent abroad. Before such consent can be given, applicants must be investigated by the child protection services of the municipality to which they belong. This can often take up to two years -- and maybe longer. In this area, too, there are differences of opinion between the majority of the committee and the minority. However, we all seem to agree that in adoption cases synergies can be achieved through better interaction and coordination. I note that the majority also want to shorten the procedure for adoption applicants, even though it is much more defensive than the minority, who believe that it should be taken into account that the normal procedure period should be nine months, and that it should not exceed twelve months from the time the case is filed until a clear answer is given. To conclude, although we had wanted more specific decisions, I am very pleased that the Government has announced a review of the adoption field with a view to improving the adoption process. I look forward to such a case being put before Stortinget as soon as possible. The time for a review of this field is overdue. Finally, in a special remark, the party of progress shows that we have repeatedly called for homosexuals not to be able to adopt. No country approves adoption in such cases, and there is a significant queue of heterofiled couples waiting to adopt. The Progress Party has programmed that homofiles should be adopted, primarily for the best interests of the children. The progress party believes that it is preferable for children to grow up with caregivers of different sexes. We are therefore proposing that homosexuals should not be allowed to be approved as adoptive parents. We will, of course, vote in favour of this proposal, but we will also vote in favour of the proposal from the Christian People's Party, which goes in the same direction as our proposal, even if it is not as clear as ours. With that, I will be allowed to comment on the proposals made by the Progress Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e440	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e443	This Document No The 8 proposal by the representatives of Skei Grande, Kvassheim and Ludvigsen takes account of the guidelines for their adoption and their practice. The proposers address several aspects of the adoption legislation, including: the existence of strict requirements for adoption applicants by, for example: emphasis on the health status of applicants. It is important to stress that when guidelines for the authorisation of adoptive parents focus on good physical and mental health, this is in the best interests of the child. This will be particularly important in view of the need for parents to be able to provide good care for an adopted child who may have special needs and who will thus require additional follow-up in the years ahead. It is, however, such that the adoption guidelines underline that parents should be a care unit and that consideration should be given to this in the assessment of the suitability of applicants as adoptive parents. It is good that the legislation for the approval of adoptive parents opens up too much discretion and individual assessment of the applicants concerned, in the light of what will form the basis for the assessment, such as health, age, income, etc. In this respect, it is important to point out that a relatively large proportion of the adoption requests are granted. In 2006, a total of 1071 cases were dealt with in the regions, with a drop-off rate that is quite low. It was approx. 9 pst. It is also a cross of thought that during this document no. The 8 proposes that adoption should be easier, and that more people should be given the opportunity to help children who need it, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party take the view that homosexuals and lesbians living in couples should be given the opportunity to be considered adoptive parents. It has to be thought that these are opinions that are yelling a little bit. The proposers claim that there is too little competence in the municipalities to make good judgements in adoption cases, and that it is therefore too long before adoption applicants are given the necessary clarification. That may be the case for some municipalities, but I think it's too bad to say that this is the situation in general. In the examination of the individual adoption request, the relevant professional bodies, with the child’s best eye, must take many different balances through a thorough review and individual assessment of adoption applicants. Such a procedure is important in order to give individual adoptive children the best opportunities in their new family. However, it is important to stress that good synergies can be achieved in both child protection and adoption matters through improved interaction and coordination. It can be pointed out here that, for example: inter-municipal cooperation in the field of child protection has been shown to improve the quality and timing of treatment. It is therefore good that the Government of the notified review will look at possible measures to shorten the procedure for adoption applicants, and that it appears that the municipalities must also comply with general rules on administrative procedures in these cases. Proposals ask the Government to look at the possibility of opening up adoption in new countries. I would like to stress that it is the recognised adoption communication organisations that, in the light of their knowledge of the field, have the right to enter into cooperation on adoption with different countries. Thereafter, the authorities shall grant any distribution authorisation to the country concerned. The refusal to apply for such authorisation has been justified by uncertainties relating to the protection of the child’s interests and legal certainty in the country concerned, and in some cases also concerns the safety of adoption applicants. Sound family approval practices should be carried out in relation to countries where legal certainty is not adequately demonstrated. Foreign adoption is regulated by the Hague Convention and the Government is constantly addressing various issues relating to the rights of children and the protection of children in international discussions. There is reason to be satisfied that the Government has announced a general and comprehensive review of the adoption field, with a view to improving the adoption processes and ensuring the rights of both adoption applicants and adoption children. Norway’s ratification of the Hague Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in International Adoptions is one of many important measures already in place. Provision of adoption preparatory courses for initial applicants and new rules for sterilisation in registered partnerships are good measures put in place to strengthen the adoption families.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e463	Adoption is an important area where the Right will be open to any good input that can improve the system and make adoption opportunities better. There are many children out there who need parents, and there are many potential parents in Norway who make a great effort to be allowed to stand up. In this there is perhaps some of the finest that can be between people, and it requires our deepest respect and our contribution to making processes as possible and as simple as possible. It is important that these issues are raised and that the proposers should be commended for doing just that. The left has put forward a whole series of proposals which I think there may be good reasons for looking at, but which may require a more comprehensive approach than what we can achieve on the basis of a proposal for a representative. I therefore hope that the Government will take these proposals with it when you announce that you will come back to the Stortinget with a wide-ranging issue of adoption, where we will get these and many more issues highlighted and seen in context. I refer to the State Council's letter to the Committee where such a case is announced, which we believe is positive. As I said, it is important and right to make the best possible provision for adoption, and then it is clear that the issue of time is important. We therefore support proposal No. 1 that the maximum duration of treatment is set at nine months, and we also support proposal No. 2 on the possibilities of applying for adoption independently of countries. These are questions we believe it must be possible to decide on, regardless of this larger and broader case that is announced. With regard to the issue of gay file access to adoption, the Right-wing Programme has established that homofiles must also be considered as adoptive parents in line with others. We will therefore, of course, not go into the proposals of the Christian People's Party or the Advance Party on this. As regards the issue of increasing adoption aid, we believe that this is a natural theme for the annual budgets, where such priorities can be seen in the context of the other priorities that we want to pursue. As I said, the Right look forward to the government coming back with a thoroughly prepared case. We hope it doesn't take too long. We hope that in this context, too, action will be taken to strengthen the work of adoption associations and to make adoption as easy as possible in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e480	SV will praise the Left to promote this proposal, because it addresses a very important issue. SV is also very pleased that the Government has announced a general and comprehensive review of the adoption field with a view to improving the adoption processes and ensuring both adoption applicants and adoption children’s rights. Norway’s ratification of the Hague Convention for the Protection of Children and Cooperation in International Adoptions is one of many important measures already in place. Provision for adoption parents, including the representative of the Workers' Party, training for initial applicants and new rules for stebarn adoption in registered partnerships are good measures that have been put in place to strengthen their adoptive parents. The Christian People's Party promotes a proposal in the position that the Government should assume that children adopted are entitled to a mother and father. That the Advance Party is promoting its proposal is not unexpected, but it is unexpected that the Christian People's Party does so, because in its time it was actually a government council from the Christian People's Party that opened up to adoption for singleness. It is clear that this proposal is now coming because we have a change in common marriage law. The majority of the Norwegian population realize that it is unreasonable that lesbian and gay couples should not have the same opportunities as heterophilic couples both to marry and to be considered adoptive parents. Their love is equally strong, their need for legal regulation of their life is equally great, and the ability to have children is not determined by laying, but by entirely different characteristics, both for hetero- and homo-philic. It is also unreasonably and directly strange that single lesbians or gays have the opportunity to adopt on the same lines as heterophiles, while at the moment you enter into an obsessive relationship - which, among other things, you have. The Christian People's Party is so preoccupied with heterofiles - should not have the opportunity to be evaluated any more. At the same time, lesbian and gay couples may well be foster parents, they may be used as visiting homes or foster homes for particularly demanding children. If a child who comes to the foster home of a lesbian or gay couple needs a permanent foster home, these foster parents are not given the right to adopt their unborn child, while a child in a heterophilic foster family would have this opportunity to be adopted. I would also like to say to the representative of the Progress Party: these are the children we are concerned with. This affects children the most because they are deprived of the legal opportunity and the right to be adopted. Now it is that neither heterophilic nor homosexual is entitled to adoption, but it is the right to be judged as adoptive parents this is all about. I'm really very sorry that the Christian People's Party is going back to its original position. They had a brave state council in their time that actually suggested this. I believe that a large proportion of the children in Norway are discriminated against by saying that you should have the right to a father and a mother, when so many children in this country live with one dependant. It is sad that the Christian People's Party now comes with this setback.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e495	I would first like to thank the Left for the draft representative. The Christian People's Party shares the commitment to adoption issues, and I'm glad we're having this discussion today. I'll start by stating that for the Christian People's Party, adoption is a good way to set up a family, on the same line as where a baby is born. Adopting a child from abroad, however, imposes a heavy financial burden on the family. As a result, families with moderate economies are unable to implement an adoption. The high costs may also be an obstacle to families who want to adopt more children to give the child the sibling to grow up with. Adoption support received a significant increase with the impending Laila Davay from the Christian People's Party as Minister for Children and Family Affairs. But we're still not in the goal. The Christian People's Party therefore has a program commitment to increase adoption support to 1 G. The Ministry announces in its reply to the Committee that they will carry out a holistic review of the adoption policy. That's good. What disappoints us is that the government parties will not support the proposal for increased adoption support, despite the fact that the cost of adoption has increased a lot in recent years. An increase in adoption support to 1 G would have counteracted the biased social distribution of adoptions associated with parents’ finances. Adoption organisations have an important role to play in ensuring that children who need it have a new family. The adoption organisations are the link between adoption applicants and adoption authorities both here in the country and abroad, and have an important role to play. They also have a strong commitment to their children. Being tied between seekers and authorities can be both demanding and challenging. The adoption of children across borders raises a number of issues, not least ethical ones. Adoption often raises very sensitive political questions in the country of origin of children. It is therefore particularly important for adoption organisations to be cautious about their country of origin. The Christian People's Party will stress that Norwegian authorities must fully recognise their right to impose requirements on Norwegian families to adopt children from their countries. We are concerned that the choice of cooperating countries should not be based on the interests of different search groups, but have children’s needs in the centre. At the same time, we agree with the proposers that it is important to avoid unnecessary bureaucratic barriers to adoption and to prevent the possibility of adoption from being linked with different factors that could in the future pose health risks. The Christian People's Party is in line with the proposers concerned about a social development in which the framework of what is considered normal becomes more and more urgent and does not accept any health risks. I would like to stress that the question of gay and lesbians should be given the opportunity to be assessed as adoptive parents, not whether these groups have the same care as others, which they obviously have. The question is about the stability of society and the importance of having both mother and father as role models for a child’s identity development in its daily growing-up environment. SSB researcher Turid Noack has done a study of the occurrence of divorces in registered partnerships and marriages. It concludes that the risk of divorce is about three times greater for lesbian couples and about one and a half times higher for men in registered partnerships compared to heterophilic couples. I want to emphasize that many children have a good upbringing without having both a mother and a father with them. Nevertheless, there is something else to see alternative family constellations as equal schemes and as desirable on behalf of children. In many areas, we've been busy having more men into kindergartens and more men into schools, because it's important that children have role models of both sexes. The Christian People's Party believes that adoption rules must focus on the best for the child, and then stability in society must weigh heavily. At the same time, I would point out that by granting gay and lesbian a general right to be assessed as adoptive parents on the same lines as heterophilic couples, Norwegian legislation violates the European Convention on Adoption. The Christian People's Party proposes that we ask the Government to assume that children who are adopted should have the right to a mother and a father. I am therefore addressing the proposal that is included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e526	The representative of May-Helen Molvær Grimstad has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e529	I would also like to give tribute to today's proposers. Adoption is an important part of family policy, and one does not have to do a lot of searching backwards to find out that adoption is a question that concerns the Storting. The same issues that we are discussing today have been raised in the past with various government councils. Among others, one of the proposers today, Gunnar Kvassheim, addressed the current Minister for Children and Family Affairs, Valgerd Svarstad Haugland in 2000. Government responses at the time coincide with replies from the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, when they relate to the possibilities for simplifying the process of adoption seekers. Both government councils stress the need for thorough documentation before adoption applicants can be approved by the municipalities and the three approved adoption associations can start the process of helping applicants to adopt. I want to join the then state council in response to Hauglands' announcement in 2000: ‘The purpose of an adoption is, as you know, not to find children for parents, but to provide children who need them with good parents’. Internationally, we are also alerted about a trend that gives all cause for concern. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe delivered an interview last month on the basis of reports on the illegal sale of children from Eastern Europe to Western Europe. The Assembly calls for several countries to accede to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Hague Convention on the Protection of Children, to increase control and requirements for adoption procedures in countries where this is unsatisfactory today. The quality of work on expanding the number of co-operative countries for Norway must also be the best in the future. In cooperation with the authorities, adoption associations need to have a full overview of the adoption field in the countries with which Norway cooperates. This is resource-demanding and must be taken into account in the assessment of the number of countries of cooperation that can be defended. The desire to expand the number of co-operative countries must never lead us to celebrate the approval criteria. That being said, we also see that the requirements for applicants from today's co-operation country, combined with a greater desire to deal with adoption cases domestically, limit the number of children compared to the number of Norwegian approved applicants. Despite this, we unfortunately know that there are still children who need parents. I think that the issue of expanding the number of cooperating countries should be part of the government's holistic review of the adoption field. But I would like to stress the importance that adoption seekers and others understand that this will only meet to a limited extent all the aspects of adoption processes that many today experience as heavy and difficult. Adoption is a complicated field, which should last so many important considerations that it will always be a cumbersome and time-consuming process to become a parent in this way. It recognizes today's government as any other government before her. That being said, it is obvious that there is room for improvement. All should be met with respect, and there is a great deal of responsibility on the case handlers in the municipalities to provide the applicants with the best possible treatment. The process takes time, but the desire to adopt a child depends, of course, on all of it, in such a way that it should not take an undue amount of time. Norwegian authorities have full control of the domestic approval and thus have full responsibility for the length of time this takes. Form needs to be filled in, but we need to see if they can be simplified from time to time. Adoption is always going to cost, but when expenditure increases, as in all other budgetary issues, we also have to consider whether support for the seekers is good enough. I'm similar to the opposition's concern that adoption processes should be made as simple as possible, with the clear assumption that all aspects of the children, Norway's international obligations and adoption family are taken care of. I have full confidence that the Government will do just that, when it has now announced a holistic review of the adoption field, in order to improve the adoption processes and secure the rights of both adoption seekers and adoption children.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e561	I think it's important to start with just these words: It's no right to become a parent, but all children have the right to have parents. I really think that one of the most beautiful things you can imagine people do is take care of a child who doesn't have parents. That's something we should value, and we should facilitate that all those who are willing to do it, actually get the opportunity to do it, when they're able to do it. In a globalised world, many children need the care many parents in Norway can provide. But adoption is not aid. There is much more care across borders. Adoption guidelines are both rules that we make and rules that the donor countries make. That means that we're going to have a professional assessment here, whether we believe on the basis of our Norwegian criteria that people can be good parents. But then there are some criteria that the countries from which we adopt also set. Some of the criteria seem unreasonable to us, and some of them also seem quite strange. It is therefore important to ensure that there are so many different countries to adopt from where it is possible for anyone who is a good parent to find a country from which they can adopt. It is seaworthy so that disease or safety may be relevant. Age is of course relevant. In the case of children who have lost their parents, we are making even greater demands on the safety of their upbringing. We're gonna give the kids parents, not grandparents. However, when we have rules that do not change as much over time, and when we see that perhaps the age of Norwegian dads can increase particularly strongly, and also that health-related requirements in a country like Norway are also increasing strongly, we need to change the rules so that they are related. Too many people take a long time to get approved. For some people it's going to be a short time, but too many people take a long time. It wears on a relationship and on the motivation, and it feels unfair. That is why we have proposed that such a process should actually have a deadline, like all other processes. We don't think that's strange, for example. nine months could be an appropriate deadline. It costs money to adopt -- a lot of money. We think it is wrong that today we have a health care system that sets up if someone wants to use the health care system to get help to have their own children, while those who are willing to take care of children that someone else has already made are actually charged with a lot of expenses. Therefore, the Left has proposed in its budgets, not only verbally, that adoption aid should be increased to 1 G and that one should follow it, so that one escapes a trend where this becomes more and more unequal again. We want to cooperate with several countries. We want trial adoption, because it is very important that this is done correctly in all countries, and that no one can ask Norwegian adoptions about the laws, regulations and rights of the children. We know that this is happening in many countries that have very bad legislation. That's why it's very important that we try this out with trial adoption, and that we get the law in place in a process of getting into adoption agreements with Norway. Then I must finally say that I am a little sorry for the debate that the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party have used this opportunity to open up, because we all know in this Chamber that there is a completely irrelevant debate in relation to foreign adoption. It is well ahead of time for some of those countries to accept homosexuals as adoptive parents. I guess there's little we can do with that. That is why I am sorry that they are using this opportunity to launch such party political markings, and also because we can argue that this is a violation of the European Declaration of Human Rights and a number of others, but it is still an irrelevant issue. I'm glad that the government actually says they're going to have a review, sail if I think it's strange that you can't say that you're positive to some of the concrete suggestions we've made. I would like to make the suggestions that the left is behind in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e584	The representative, Trine Skei Grande, has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e587	The storing representatives Trine Skei Grande, Gunnar Kvassheim and Gunvald Ludvigsen have through Document No. The 8 proposal focused on the adoption process of children from abroad and measures to make it easier. I am pleased that the adoption field is being targeted by the searchlight. An adoption decision is very invasive and is of great importance to those to whom it applies. Adoption is about securing children who need it, a good and lasting home. The fundamental interests of the child must therefore be safeguarded throughout the adoption process, but the adoption applicants must also feel that they are being treated in a good manner. I also have a great deal of understanding for those adoptive applicants who experience that the adoption process takes a long time. In Norway, foreign adoptions account for the vast majority of the adoptions implemented. Adoption therefore has a strong international dimension and includes, in addition to our own legislation, international law. Norway is an established country of destination. As other countries of destination, we depend on what happens in the country of origin of children of a legal and not least political nature. Foreign adoption requires good cooperation and mutual trust between countries of destination and origin. The Hague Convention for the Protection of Children and Cooperation in International Adoptions has provided a very important basis for this cooperation. It is gratifying that so many countries have joined this convention. It has proved to be an active instrument to safeguard the fundamental rights of children through adoption. I would therefore like to make sure that the Children's, Youth and Family Directorate, Bufdir, can continue to be an active contributor internationally in its follow-up. As Minister for Children and Gender Equality, I want to facilitate the safe and secure provision of adoption services for children from abroad. I am concerned that the procedure should be effective. The need for legal certainty of the parties shall be safeguarded. I therefore believe that it is always necessary to be open to assess whether there is a basis for improvement. We have three active adoption organisations dedicated to the interests of adoption children, adoption applicants and adoptive parents. They show strong commitment to further developing the field and provide many good input. I am concerned that the relationship between the organisations and the authorities should be good. Their participation in the adoption process is a necessary condition for children to be transmitted to Norway in a reassuring manner. At the same time, authorities have an important role to play in overseeing their domestic and foreign activities. I have noticed that the organisations themselves stress the importance of the Norwegian authorities maintaining a thorough check. In the written reply to Document No: The 8-proposal states that there is no point in saying that the existing legislation in the field of adoption does not work as intended. However, she indicates that the time has now come to carry out a general and comprehensive review of the adoption field. I share her view and therefore have announced such a review. I want to put the adoption field into a broad professional and social context. I assume that gay and lesbians will be given the right to be evaluated. The review should cover both domestic and foreign adoptions. An assessment of several of the proposals in relation to Document No. The 8-proposal belongs naturally to such a review. Adoption is an area that is often exposed to a critical searchlight in the media and in the public debate. In particular, it focuses on the right of adoption applicants to be assessed as adoptive parents. How things are going with adoptive children in their new family has also been a theme. Another theme has been the ‘buying and sales issue’ of foreign adoption. I want a thorough discussion of what should be the tasks and responsibilities of the authorities in this field. The examination of the application for adoption will be a central theme. The time perspective, from the receipt of the application for adoption by the authorities until the adoption has been completed, needs to be assessed. Existing requirements for the approval of adoption homes must also be assessed in the light of the requirements of foreign authorities for the same applicants. The investigation of the applicants forms the very basis for the decision of the Norwegian and foreign authorities. I would therefore like to have the investigation phase illuminated in the municipalities. The division of tasks and responsibilities between the authorities and the adoption organisations must also be assessed. I assume that the supervisory responsibilities of the authorities with regard to foreign adoptions are covered. A study in the field of adoption also provides an opportunity to get a comprehensive overview of the knowledge we have today about the adopted and their family situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e610	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e613	The Council of State mentioned in its article the review of the adoption field that is also mentioned in the setting. It is true that the whole committee is united about the desire to improve the adoption process, and we look forward to such a review by the Council of State. My question to the Council of State is: When can we expect such a review to be completed, and in what form will the Stortinge will have this matter dealt with?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e620	I don't want to rule out that the way to go is to get a public investigation. We are working to assess the appropriate form so that work can be started as soon as possible. Exact time for when this is done, I can't say now, but I'll come back to it in a suitable way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e625	The cost is an important question for many when assessing whether they have the ability to adopt a child. The adoption aid has stood still. Is the Council of State set to work properly, so that it becomes more economical for those who consider and want to adopt? That's one question. The second question I would like to ask the Council of State is that if you are going to start working with a NOW, it will take time to get a thorough statement. But there are some grips. When e.g. A couple are approved for adoption from a particular country and a political situation arises that means that a person should not adopt so many children from that country anymore, perhaps simply adopt from another country. But the procedures today are very heavy. Is there anything the Council of State sees that one can take, so that it becomes less bureaucratic than it is today?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e632	I am aware of the challenges that costs create. I can't make any promises about giving more; we now have a budgetary process behind us. When it comes to simplifying the procedures, I'm assuming that the ones we have today are working. Then it's always possible within the directorate to make improvements. Otherwise, our assessment is that the complexity of the matter requires that we take the overall assessment. If not, it is certainly possible, as I said, to go the way of a public investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e639	I have two questions for the Council of State. The first is to repeat the last: is there really none of the small, simple changes that the Council of State sees possible to implement before investigation? The second question is that very many of those who experience rejection get it with a little strange reasons. For those of us who have worked on this for a long time, we sometimes fall for the temptation to think that you choose the most pleasant reason instead of the honest reason. My question to the Council of State is: Could it not at least be right to give instructions on child protection that when you reject applications, you give the real and honest reason for the rejection?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e650	To the second question, it is always my responsibility to look at the quality of the proceedings and to give good reasons. I'm doing that on an ongoing basis. As for the possibilities of making small changes, our assessment has been so far that we carry out an overall review, preferably by a NOU. Otherwise we have attention in this field, and we always make continuous assessments. But we want first of all to look at the whole thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e657	No more words have been asked for a line. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e663	The desire to have own children through adoption is a very private and comprehensive choice that requires commitment and financial security. The task of the public should be to facilitate the smoothest possible and least invading and burdensome for those concerned. Unfortunately, this is not the case today. From the time you apply to get in touch with the adoption authorities, it goes on that year. In the meantime, the certificates have become obsolete, and you have to expect such delays that visits to doctors, police and public records take place up to two or three times. Even I've given needles with blood to the doctor. That should hold. My husband's got his brain scanned. The Council of State should ensure that those who come home to those who wish to adopt relate to the guidelines and to the issues relevant to that process. There should be a limit to how invading the public can be in relation to their need for quality assurance of adoption parents. A review of the adoption process should also take into account the experience of adoption parents in the process and precisely that of the process. At the same time, it is a matter of course for us to adopt, to address the public's need for safe adoption. It says in the documents today that there is no human right to have children. It's a statement that I personally have a lot of problems with. But at least you can understand that it's a human right for children to grow up with parents who actually want them. The starting point for adoption should be precisely this: the right of all children to parents. Expanding the number of countries from which you can adopt is therefore very positive. The children in the world who need a safe home deserve to do a job to bring down the procedure, to get quality assurance in the adoption process and to get up the number of adoptions. Few areas have as many positive sides as just connecting needy children with wanting parents. For us it will take six to seven years from we decided to adopt until we have a child. It's a long time to wait.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e672	Adoption of children is no human right for any of us. This does not prevent us from facilitating adoption processes. At present, there are many municipalities that lack competence, lack of professional environment and lack of experience, which in turn means that there are few cases, and that the processing time will be unnecessarily long. I was then a little surprised by the representative of Tove Karoline Knutsen. Very familiar she comes from Tromsø, which is a relatively large city, and of course has sufficient professional competence. Of course, the vast majority of municipalities are of a different character, and then it won't be that easy. Where there are less than 3,000 inhabitants, it will be difficult. Selecting to focus the system will take an abnormally long time, with a large difference between municipalities. In this context, it should be possible to provide precisely intercommunal solutions to strengthen competence and reduce the processing time. An adoption request cannot be clarified for one country at a time. Although one is not approved as an adoptive parent in, for example, China, one should not have to go back to the start of the process by applying as an adoptive parent in another country, such as Colombia. This is going to be too heavy a system, in my opinion. Of course, the perfect parents don't exist. However, one must not exclude parents because of disease risk. If that is the case, it limits itself to discrimination, in my view. It is important to be honest when clarifying an application for adoption. One must not avoid saying what is the real reason why the discount is given. It is, after all, all that the previous speaker had in mind, many who have been waiting for many years and who have tried different methods. We have to show respect for those who have tried most to adopt a kid. In those processes, a very vulnerable person also needs to provide a proper response and a proper justification for those who have tried.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e681	I am pleased that this matter is on the agenda. It's important to many of us, because we get enquiries from couples who want to adopt and who experience the process as demanding and difficult. It's good that the government has told them to have a review of the rules. We have to expect that there is an improvement in the rules we're going to see -- and a renewal, because society is changing and the rules have to change in the pact with that. Like many other representatives, I have received many enquiries from couples who have been rejected, for example. due to chronic diseases. There does not have to be a relationship between caring and chronic disease. It's good to be a good caregiver if you have a challenge in your life. Unimportant or unworthy refusal to apply for adoption means that many people lose their courage, and we miss out on many people who could receive a child in a good way. I have also received enquiries from road accident victims who have been rehabilitated, are back in work and in society, and who have an absolute capacity for care, but who because of something that is far behind in time, are refused to be further assessed in the adoption process. This has to happen to something. I would also like to point out the time perspective. Several of the debaters have been involved. I was contacted by a couple who started their process in 2005. They're waiting for a child from China. They were approved at the end of 2005 and have now waited 26 months since their application was registered in China. Their challenge is that authorisation in Norway should initially last for two years. They've got it extended to three, but it looks like it's not enough. It is a little pointless to have to go through the entire application procedure again to obtain a new authorisation in Norway because it takes so long to get the child from abroad. I do not need a response to that today, but I ask that the review of the government, including the time aspect, take into account - that the approval period in Norway is long enough for you to have time to bring a child home from, for example. China. It will also save a lot of resources if they don't go through the whole system again. Finally, it is gratifying that many Norwegian couples are in line to adopt a child from abroad. There are many children who need a new home. It will be our responsibility both to simplify procedures, so that it will not take so long to help a child, and to expand the number of countries where there are really many children who could need a new home in Norway. I hope that the government will also focus on that part of this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e696	As several of the representatives have pointed out, it is expensive to adopt. The average cost is between NOK 100000 and NOK 150000, of which adoptive parents today cover a large part on their own. We have all noticed the desire of the adoption associations to increase support for 1 G, and we are hoped that this will be assessed in the work that the Government is now going to do. In that context, I would say that it was a very defensive response I received from the Council of State instead. That this is going to be a long NOU, maybe end up with conclusion in maybe ten years and with implementation in 15 years, I think it's very defensive. I would also like to offer some commendation to the Council of State party colleague Karin Yrvin for her very personal testimony here from the pulpit. When you have to wait six to seven years before you have an adoption, it is quite obvious that there must be immediate action, and there must be action from the Government. I hope the Council of State goes to its payroll chamber and thinks through the problem one more time. So to this with gay and adoption. It was in SV's articles that made me react a little, because there were some obvious defects and defects. SV said that solitude now has the opportunity to adopt, and so it can also adopt gay people. It's actually a mistake. There are strong restrictions, according to the adoption associations, on the number of countries that accept solitude as adoptive parents. It's also true that lonely people who adopt have to sign that they're not gay. SV says that their vision is based on the fact that they are concerned about the well-being of the children. So is the Progress Party. We think it would be best for children to grow up with role models of different sexes. There was also another error in SV's posts, that there are many gay couples that are talking about. It's one of the 800, if you look at the marriage statistics. It is also true that gay partnerships are much less stable than heterosexual couples. This can be seen in higher frequency, for example. in the case of divorces among homosexuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e707	Just an explanation of a misunderstanding in which the representative André N. Skkelstad was guilty. Of course, I did not say that there is equal competence in all the municipalities in this field when it comes to dealing with adoption applicants. My point was on the contrary that there are different competences, and that it is of course that you do not have the competence in smaller municipalities that you have in large cities and in larger municipalities. Therefore, my point was that intermunicipal cooperation is important, and that it has been shown to produce good results, for example. in the general field of child protection. I would also like to stress that the government fraction has supported the fact that in the review that the government is going to have, it may be positive to look at the relationship between the approval of adoptive parents before deciding which country to adopt from. We think it might be a wise way to do it, and we've been thinking that the government is looking at it in the review you're going to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e714	The representative from the Progress Party says that SV has made a number of claims, and false claims. One thing is that you can disagree politically, and I have great respect for the fact that the Progress Party believes something other than SV, but there was no actual error in my post. There is a right in Norway to adopt as a single person. That many countries now say no to adoption of solitude is something quite different. It is also possible to adopt children from Norway, just as they have been said. With regard to role models and a father and a mother, I agree that children need good role models, both male and female. But in fact, most children in Norway, even though they live with lonely parents - they actually do a large part of the children in Norway, and then they discriminate against a large group of children - have good role models around them in their family, in the circle of friends of their parents, etc. This is also why it is so important that there are both women and men in kindergartens and women and men in primary school, so that good role models are available both as boys and girls. We are discriminating against a large group of children in Norway, that is what this is all about. One also discriminates against children in relation to having the same rights as children in marriage.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e721	When dealing with this matter, I got the feeling that Ivar Aasen once wrote about: "They believe it will go so fast until something big. But as soon as anything great is night, there came a blow." The treatment in the committee was very positive. There were very few arguments against many of the measures proposed by the Left, but many have said that a proper review is needed. That the Council of State has no time perspective, no ambitions that this will go quickly, or any dream that it will be possible to look at some of the obvious things before, makes me a little worried. This is a matter that concerns many people. Many feel that the clocks are ringing, and that the time is running out, and many feel that there are few arguments that have come up against some of the measures available. I still hope that the government has either a great deal of pressure and a desire for this to go quickly, or looks at some of the obvious simplification processes that could make this better. I must also note that when you say something that someone misunderstands, it is not necessarily the person who misunderstands, his problem. It's a big challenge that we have a child protection that is very complex in terms of competence and size. Obviously, if you're a child protection employee, who might have an adoption approval every year of jubilee, and you're sitting there with a worry message in one hand and the perfect couple who just want to have paper on that they're perfect, in the other hand, it's probably easy to prioritize the anxiety message. Then this perfect couple will be pushed across the queue. You might have put together the expertise, so that we'd get better quality of what we're doing, faster treatment of what we're doing, and good explanations for those who get rejected. There are many strange explanations about it, and I think a public bureaucracy should be honest with people, even when honesty is unpleasant. Then you have to get a proper explanation as to why this is not a trick. I think there's a lot of room here for making simple, straightforward reforms, which neither jeopardizes legal certainty nor other things, but which would have made everyday life easier for many, and which could have led many people's dream of being allowed to become parents was much closer to reality. I hope that this doesn't go away in a bureaucratic investigation, but that the passion, which is shown by a lot of people - also from the government parties in this case - actually leads to a little progress in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e739	I want to assure the various representatives that, although we cannot have a time perspective, we are aware of the needs in the adoption field. We have chosen to take an overall review, preferably in the light of a NOU. This shall not boil away in the cabbage. In parallel, I would like to say that, in close dialogue with our directorate, we will have as good a procedure as possible. What can be done by changes within the system we have today is to be done. But we have chosen the line to take an overall review and follow the procedure continuously in close cooperation with our directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e746	The Christian People's Party has expectations of the Government when it comes to getting more attention to the adoption challenges, not least that it is more economic, so that one can increase the adoption benefit. When next year's government budget comes, we have expectations that the government will focus more and have a hold on it. But what made me take the floor again was May Hansen's speech. I didn't think this was going to be a debate about the challenges you have in relation to whether or not gays should have the right to be assessed as adoptive parents, for this is a matter that the representative Skei Grande was facing, which very broadly addresses the challenges associated with adoption. But when claims of discrimination are repeated several times, I get a little tired, because one must be able to have different things without becoming guilty of discrimination. May Hansen's position here is different from that of the Christian People's Party. What the Christian People's Party is proposing today is exactly what we say in our programme, which was agreed in 2005, where we ask the Government to assume that children who are adopted are entitled to a mother and a father. When one then discusses the singles, we know, from an old age, that where there is close knowledge, kinship, or similar relationships associated with the singles, it has been possible to adopt singles every year. Then there have been some liberalisations, and we have wanted to tighten up a little. But here too, the Christian People's Party is busy with their children's dishes, just as they have arranged their lives. There have been cases where it has our children in lesbian relations, where we have been with and given the right to stepchildren's adoption to ensure the legal rights of the child. But what we want to think about, and that's perfectly clear to us, is that one of the general adoptions is going to be the goal of giving a mother and a father to the children. There is nothing to do with discrimination against those who are alone with children growing up today. I have said that many children with single parents may have noticed. But it has a little bit of which framework conditions we're going to fix. That's what we're asking the representatives to listen to what we're saying, instead of adding to what we haven't said.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e755	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 2047]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e770	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 65 minutes, and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Labour Party 15 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and State Council Board Vegar Solhjell 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a possibility of a replacement of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e779	I would like to start by thanking the Advance Party for a Document No. Eight proposals that raise many important issues. Many of the conclusions of the proposal of the Progress Party are very disagreeable. Central questions are, are we going to have an integrated school? Where is the integration limit going? Are the troublemakers going out of class? What's the reason for trouble in a class? Is this an individual or a system approach that is important as a primary focus? The proposal of the Progress Party has led to many meetings, and the Committee has organised a very good seminar at Stortinget, with important and good research environments, which have given experience, a knowledge-raising experience, to the Committee. This is important for us to be able to make the right decisions. I have traveled a lot around Norwegian schools and had many discussions about the proposals of the Progress Party. Process has been good. I believe that this has led to a good attitude from the Committee, with clear distinctions in terms of the instruments to be used to create a good school for all our children. The proposals of the Progress Party are many, and the position of the Committee is extensive. I don't have time to go into all the elements of my article. I want to focus on the majority's position, the Committee's position and the SV's view. In December, PISA and PIRLS arrived. These studies show the competence of Norwegian students in reading, mathematics and natural sciences. We have also received the results of the national tests carried out in the autumn of 2007 at both fifth and eighth class stages. The results show that there has been a general decline and that Norway is below the OECD average in terms of both reading, mathematics and natural sciences. One in five students read so poorly that they have problems understanding information and being able to acquire knowledge. The Committee considers this to be serious. Being able to read is essential to ensure that children master their lives and are open to new knowledge. Many measures have been taken, but these have not been systematic enough. Therefore, SV is very pleased that the government this spring is presenting a big message about quality in initial training, such as for example. shall address the systematisation of literacy training and this with difficulties and concerns at school. «Prior effort» is the main focus of this government. The government has provided a comprehensive communication on early lifelong learning efforts, followed by policy action on language stimulation, monitoring tests and many other measures. From the fall, there will be five more hours from the first to the fourth grade, focusing on strengthening literacy and better understanding of numbers. Today, children are waiting too long for help, and it is important that our children get help when they need it, so that they can feel mastering. Mestring produces results and increases self-esteem. It is important to look at how schools succeed, and what schools you get good results in. An important common feature of successful schools is that they focus on knowledge, social care and control in training. Teachers have high confidence and high ambitions on behalf of students. They're motivating, they're propelling, and they take care of the individual. These schools also systematically focus on a good environment. There are a lot of different reasons for lack of calm in teaching. There is no simple and easy recipe to find a uniform solution. The main research-based information we have on the school is the research on the evaluation of reform 97, where it is pointed out that there are extremely many different reasons why there is a lack of calm in teaching. This may include, inter alia: be that the rules are unclear, that students do not have control, that a number of forms of work are disturbing, and that the teacher is not able to calm down. There may be a lack of systematics at work, a lack of continuous time for professional work, or too much exchange of activities and subjects. It could also be that you have too little variation in teaching, and that means you have to have different approaches to this. The majority of the Committee emphasises this in a comment. All except the members of the Progress Party are involved. You're saying that one thing that's right for one school doesn't necessarily have to be right for another school. We also know that our children are very different. A few weeks ago, I was visiting a school and was an auxiliary teacher in reading and writing training for the second stage. There were about 20 students in the class. I experienced everything from race rites that could all -- could put a dot and a comma where they were going -- to a boy who threw the pencil to another boy, who focused on drawing because he didn't master what he was going to learn. This means that training requires time and competence, and it also requires good, competent and enough teachers to help. The individual focus has been strong in relation to the perspective that has been associated with problem behaviour in Norwegian school. Very many measures have been taken directly to target the individual student. Then my question is, do we need more of the same medicine? My answer is obviously no. In the nomination, the majority, with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, draw the results of the 2007 PISA survey, which concludes that the best school systems in the world, and those with the best results, are the school systems that have a socially inclusive school up to the age of 15-16. Therefore, SV believes it is important to strengthen the inclusive school. The government fraction underlines in the setting that fighting and unrest appear primarily as a pedagogical and organisational challenge. This means that it is important to have a collective approach to the problem and to view it as an organisation in its entirety. Discipline, measures and sanctions against individuals are not, as the Progress Party pointed out, the answer to the challenge facing Norwegian school in relation to much trouble, noise and unrest. I would also like to point out that the government fraction in the setting says that national and international research is quite unambiguous that the segregation of the students leads to students with problem behaviour either maintaining or strengthening their problems. We have some research-based knowledge about how to prevent and reduce the extent of behavioral problems in school. In this setting, the entire Committee stresses the importance of schools implementing the knowledge-based programmes in order to reduce problem behaviour in schools and create lasting improvements in the learning environment. One of these programmes is the respect programme. This programme has an overall approach to solving the problem, involving both school, parents, teachers and students. This program also says that discipline like coercion and threats does not produce less bad behavior. Many of these different research-based programmes have a good impact on the learning environment. In the opinion, the Committee also mentions social professional competence and the importance of inclusion in school. I was a few days ago visiting Rein School in Tromsø, which had introduced this. They noticed a great improvement both among teachers and students, and the parents were very pleased. In its opinion, the Committee called on the Government to assess how best to stimulate municipalities and county municipalities to better include social skills in schools. I would like to make a quote from Byavisa Trondheim, March 13, 2007: ‘Those with serious behavioural problems should rather go to their own special schools. Both for their own good and for the benefit of the other students, Trond Birkedal from Stavanger believes Frp. Also, ‘students with brain damage and other injuries that make them not fit in as well’, as Anders Anundsen says, shall be moved’. SV strongly disagrees with the main points of the proposal of the Progress Party. This is to start at a completely wrong end. It is easy to recognise the narrow school policy of the Progress Party - a policy that makes individual groups a loser, helps push responsibility for creating a good school away from the community and across to the individual student. The proposal from the Progress Party to get even more segregated measures believes SV is irresponsible, and it is not in the best interests of children. This progressing party society, as I will call it, is such that one divides society into classes with ‘us’ and ‘the others’. This is a human vision that SV will not afford. This way of organising society leads to more insecurity, more conflict, a less pleasant and a colder Norway. The researchers also say that this is not the right way to go. The school shall be a place where all children participate in the community. We're going to have an integrated school as far as we can. Of course, some children need a different learning situation for a shorter or longer period, but there should be room for all our kids in an inclusive common school.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e829	The proposers shall be commended for the inclusion of an important theme, and the case-rapporteur shall be commended for having done a thorough job on this proposal. Recently, we have received several studies to show that Norwegian students are fighting a lot. Both student surveys and international studies tell us this. We have a bunch of school students in the gallery today, I see. They've been mouse still all along, so cutting all over one comb is well the last thing we're going to do in this discussion. But that is: the former right-wing French Minister of Education wrote the following not long ago: if the old methods had worked, they would still be in use, and we hadn't been sitting here and looking for better ways. I believe that reintroducing the shame hook and using old ways to run discipline in school will not bring more peace. I would also like to say that the politicians who talk the most about students having to respect the teachers must show respect for the teachers themselves. It must also reflect the important school policy discussion we have in these days. We politicians have to show respect for the important job that teachers do. When our parents went to school, they learned that they would be obedient and do as the teacher said. If the students had a conflict with the teachers and told it at home, yes, they got fucked by their parents. At home, the kids were told to listen to the teacher. There was more peace, but many can in adulthood tell about humiliation and abuse of power from the teachers of the day. Some of those who went to schools with more rest did not learn to read and write properly. So even though there was a lot of positive at school before, there's a reason we've left the methods from then on. Today we see that lack of employment is a major problem in school. As parents, we teach our children that they should not be bored. We are for discipline and tranquillity in school, but many people accept little correction of their own children. So eager have many become to defend their children that someone is talking down about the teacher at the dinner table. The result is more conflict in the classroom. This makes the teaching profession far more challenging than before. As parents, we have to take greater responsibility for making school calm and telling our children that they have to listen to the teachers. In return, the school must involve the parents. Parents do not necessarily expect to have influence over curricula and day-to-day school operations, but all expect to be involved in how their own child is treated. It requires more of the teachers than before. Parents who are told that the children have been unfairly treated by the teacher, and feel it themselves, must feel that there is room for bringing critical questions to the school. Unfortunately, we know from a number of studies that some parents are anxious to take up criticism with the school, because they fear this could affect their own child. But the result of a lack of good communication between home and school is that parents don't tell their children enough that they should respect the teacher. It's important to calm down at school, but it's not like working time automatically gives more learning. Norwegian school students struggle a lot and do not do so well in reading and writing in international surveys. But if we look at Finnish students, who are at the top of both reading, writing and mathematics, these students are having a lot of trouble with students in other European countries. We know from international surveys that Norway is at the top in terms of well-being and self-confidence, and there is less bullying in Norwegian school than in many other countries. It is now important to work systematically for calm, discipline and more systematic work, but we must not lose sight of the results we have achieved in important areas of Norwegian school. On the website of the Progress Party it is stated that today the Stortinget will say yes to the unrest in school, because we have chosen to attach part of the proposal of the Progress Party to the protocol. Well, in a debate on respect and working order, you might want to start by having respect for the arguments of the other parties. There are no parties on the Stortinget who want trouble at school. Now that we have chosen to attach these proposals to the Minutes, it is because several of these proposals will come back to us. It is not necessarily that because the Storting today does not decide that we should go for a price for those who do good work with discipline in school, you reject all important work that is about discipline. There is no one in this room who wants trouble at school. We also disagree with some of the proposals of the Progress Party. This applies, inter alia, to: special education. I have seen many examples of students who have been taken out of the ordinary classroom and given a well-organized offer outside the classroom, and thus acquired basic skills in new learning venues. It's important. But it's not necessarily that taking all the students out of the classroom, automatically gives more power. In Skedsmo municipality, where they have a very good job of special education, you often ask the school the questions -- if a school sends many students to the Pedagogical-psychological service: what does the school do wrong? How can school get better? How can we create a more inclusive school? Special education is important, and in Norway we spend far too little resources on special education for the first time. Much of this special education may take place within the individual classroom. Being taken out in every single hour has little documented effect compared to giving learning. The proposal for more social skills in schools, I think, is a good proposal, which we also discussed in connection with St.meld. No 16 for 2006-2007 on social inequalities in schools. The teacher can't be a thousand artists, said former Minister of Education Kristin Clement, and I think that's a good statement. Those who talk about the teacher having received a lot of other tasks should consider the possibility that one in some areas should be able to call on other health professionals. Lack of health sisters in school can contribute to giving more work to teachers, so hiring new occupational groups can be a good idea. We've started a series of programs on work with discipline and calm at school, and these will continue. In the course of the year, the size of the population will also receive a major report of teacher training, where this will be a central theme with classroom management and continuing training in relation to calm and discipline. So here's a lot of good suggestions. There has been an important discussion. But those who today choose to attach the proposal of the Progress Party to the protocol, I would like to stress very strongly is too calm and discipline in the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e859	National and international studies show that Norwegian classrooms are in a special position in terms of lack of order and order. The progress party has been claiming this for many years, but the school principals have done everything they can to let us out. Now it's no longer the Progress Party alone who thinks there's a link between learning environment and learning outcomes. An increasing number of trade unions confirm the link and some believe that the school’s main unsolved problem in 2008 is trouble and unrest in the classroom. There should be an alarm for all politicians--some in this room and others outside--who have closed their eyes and shot at the Progress Party with strong verbal ammo. The challenges in school are diverse, and it is right that one cannot solve all the challenges with simple grips. However, this does not prevent you from solving anything now. I will begin by thanking the case rapporteur for a good piece of preparatory work in the preparation of the matter. The Committee has conducted a separate seminar on this proposal for a representative, and a number of good input was made. However, not many of the recordings have led to government parties wanting to act concretely against strife and unrest. They shirk responsibility and show that we need to discuss this more in the future. The Progress Party believes that this issue is far more important than a constant pushing ahead of it. Since the 2003 PISA report identified school students in Norway as the largest troublemaker in the OECD area, nothing has happened. It's political apathy, and frightening for the kids who are now struggling to learn because of unorganized classrooms full of trouble and unrest, while the political majority of the Stortinget say we're going to wait and see. Maybe it can be done for those students who start school in five or ten years, but not for those who go to school today. It's not possible for the majority to take over. It's quite frustrating. If for a short while I'm going to put on a mother's or father's hat with children in school, I'm really getting pretty pissed off and I'm going to be named over this majority apathy. It's a time for everything: a time for talk, and a time for action. And the time for action has come. Nearly one third of the time in Norwegian classrooms goes into so-called non-professional activity. This means, in practice, that when the size has now decided to increase the number of hours by approx. Sixty-five hours of school a week at the elementary school stage, so two of the hours go away to acids that have nothing to do with learning. It's a wake-up call. I will not go through the 17 proposals that have been put forward in the vote, but I think some of them need to be commented on separately. Firstly, it seems totally incomprehensible that a government that has opted to feed its children at primary school is now voting against a proposal to introduce a free fruit and vegetables scheme for all primary school students. Government parties are satisfied that half of the students are pushed outside the scheme required by the Soria Moria Declaration to be universal. A knowledge minister from a party who, before the 2005 elections, promised children chicken or fish at school, delivers a carrot or apple to half of the students and is satisfied with it. It goes with respect not to report. There are people who have wondered about the causes of political disdain. Those who still wonder can start here. In order to bring together measures against fighting and unrest, the Progress Party will have its own action plan. There will not be a majority for today, but the government parties have promised, on behalf of the Council of State, that the issues will be addressed in detail in the notification of quality of initial training. That's good, because it can also help to give a more complete picture. If the Council of State wanted to adopt some of the proposals of the Advancement Party in this matter, he would know that he was warmly welcome to it. The aim of the Progress Party will always be to maximise the impact of real policy on good and practical solutions. I hope that the Council of State will contribute to this by resuming some of the proposals of the Progress Party that are being discussed here today. Competence is an important key when fighting and unrest are debated. Competence in all terms, actually. It is, of course, a matter of reducing students’ ability to increase their professional skills when the fighting takes over. It also means that those who are to be teachers must have sufficient professional competence to develop self-confidence in order to exercise the teaching process, but also the competence to lead a class. It is also about the competence to deal with children with particularly large learning or behavioral challenges. No one expects a teacher who is trained to learn away, also to have special skills to deal with such difficulties. Therefore, we need to actively contribute to a broader competence in schools. It concerns protective care providers, child protection educators, social workers and health professionals. It is often felt that children develop behavioral difficulties in difficult home situations. This may be because parents have a difficult time and, if necessary, because of a break in their lives, and it may be illness in the family, violence, abuse, or other conditions that will affect the child in their time at school. Then the school must be able to meet the student with the necessary skills, not a half- or half-hour teacher as a jaw and whimper because the child is unable to gather his thoughts about what is happening in the hour. If the school does not succeed in this task, it cannot succeed as a knowledge intermediary, nor can it contribute to helping children out of a difficult phase. I'm not saying that the school should take over some of the parents' responsibilities for their own children, but when the parents fail or other circumstances cause children to fall outside, the school's contribution must be of such a nature that the child can return in learning mode. The Progress Party believes that all these skills needs need to be addressed, and believes that a more interdisciplinary school is a prerequisite for helping each student to learn as much as possible. So the Progress Party thinks it's strange that it's so politically incorrect to talk about special arrangements for students by offering schools with special skills. No matter what the best-witnesses say, there are some students who have zero returns on going to an ordinary class in an ordinary school. Then it is frightening that a political ideal, such as the principle of integration, should be met by the individual student's needs. In 2006, an NTNU survey on school integration was presented. It can be seen that three out of four students with mental retardation are not together with peers in the mid-terms - approx. 80 pst. by this group of students feels excluded in the school environment. The children’s ombudsman reported feedback from children who felt integrated into school solitude at the same time. I think it's strange that we, who point to such issues, are told to shut up and keep up with the hour because the total integration has come to be. The Progress Party does not agree that children should be set aside in the name of political principles. Nor do we say that all students with learning difficulties or challenges at school should leave ordinary school, but we will demand that they be given the opportunity to choose an alternative approach that can be well-placed for the individual, in or outside ordinary school. However, there is one thing that is worth noting. All parties now recognise that fighting and unrest in classrooms are a problem, and that it is important to increase the focus on finding good solutions. There is also recognition that the learning environment has an impact on learning outcomes, although there may be different perceptions of the impact. The Committee is now unanimous in stating that ‘flashes and unrest and the challenges of the learning environment and the learning process involved are one of the main unsolved problems of the school’, shows that we have helped to move political Norway in the right direction — even if it takes time. The actual recognition of the problem is at least the first step in the right direction. If more steps are to be taken, faster, the voters will have a clear alternative in 2009. I would like to ask the voters to note that on behalf of the Progress Party I am promoting the 16 proposals that have been included in the vote. And on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right, I take up proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e908	The representative Jon Hunter Gåsvatn has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e911	First of all, I would also like to congratulate both the rapporteurs and the rapporteurs for their thorough work. Discipline problems in schools have gradually been well documented. It is also well documented that fighting and unrest in the class weakens the learning environment of the students. Several people have pointed out that the school has been too affected by a sluggish culture and too poor discipline. School researcher Alfred Oftedal Telhaug believes that such disciplinary problems are largely due to the shift in the balance of power between children and adults. He believes that the Norwegian school is too much influenced by a love culture. Professor Peder Haug, in summing up the Reform 97 evaluation, pointed out that some teachers are withdrawing and leaving the arena and initiative to the students. Many teachers are afraid to make clear professional demands for students and give a positive feedback in cases where there is really no basis for doing so. Professor Fröydis Hertzberg, who has also participated in the evaluation of Reform 97, says that there is too much tolerance in Norwegian classrooms, and she believes, like Haug, that it happens because many teachers are anxious to act authoritarian or to kick the students off. They thus become indistinguishable adults. For example, of fear of wounding, a teacher can give the same positive comment to both a very good and a very poor response, and they make it sail if the students look it through. It is important that the students are given responsibility, but at the same time they must be led by teachers who act as adults, who meet them with clear expectations and demands. The students also want seagoing to meet expectations of what they can accomplish. The right took hold of government to improve the learning conditions in classrooms. The regulations were reviewed, more stringent requirements were imposed on schools to follow this up, and work was started on a new learning poster with basic quality requirements for schools in order to create calm and order. We also know that it's about developing skills to make teachers clearer and better manage classrooms. That is why we started an extensive continuing training work for teachers. Repatriation of the teaching authority is a formidable challenge for Norwegian school, but it is a fundamental prerequisite for a good working environment and better learning. The recent major school debate was a consequence of the presentation of PISA, PIRLS and the results of the national tests. There has been an open and concrete quality debate on school shortages and how to improve the school. In today's Business, December 8, 2007, there was a big report about the Old Town School in Oslo, which had very good results in the last national tests, despite the fact that the school has a student mass of 38 different languages and often very varied social backgrounds. Vice-Chancellor Karin Eger makes the following statement in the report: ‘The students’ background is not as important as many people are inclined to think. Our students have the capacity to learn in the same way as all other students.’ She also gave the following recipe to achieve good results in school: clear learning goal pressure on learning ambitions on behalf of students systematics over time good management In the right, the local school owner believes that it has a significant responsibility to provide good school management and classroom management. This is also underlined in the Knowledge promise, where knowledge and quality requirements are tightened up, and where it is expected to address the challenges of trouble and unrest. There are numerous examples of local school owners who care for this responsibility in a very good way - with systematic follow-up and development of good management principles. Often, there are simple measures to be taken. The important thing is that they are enforced through ongoing follow-up and sanctions. We can see that schools with principals focusing on active leadership and follow-up of teachers create inspiring learning environments with enthusiastic teachers and students, while at the same time schools have exactly the same financial framework as other schools. We see that how a single school is run often means more to school outcomes than resources, geography and ethnicity do. The proposals of the Progress Party focus on many key challenges and contain many interesting proposals. We in the Right would stress that the causes of trouble and unrest are many and complex, and that, in our opinion, such a series of causes cannot be solved only through individual measures. It requires a broad and nuanced approach. We are concerned with stressing that the school owner has a separate and maritime responsibility, and will therefore avoid interfering too much with responsibilities that are obviously the responsibility of individual local school owners. It can also create new and unforeseen challenges to introduce unconnected individual measures. Let me comment on some of the proposals of the Progress Party. We believe that the proposals of the Progress Party largely link the need for special education to students with great behavioral difficulties. Many pupils in need of special education belong to groups who do not have behavioral difficulties. It is not right to give this group such a great deal of responsibility for the general challenges that the Norwegian school is facing with trouble and unrest, as we see the Progress Party is doing. The right-hand approach to pupils with special needs is that flexible offers are important, whether for mainstream school integration or for a school with a specially organised offer. Special education is an area in which Norwegian school differs significantly from Finnish school. We in the Right believe it is important to carefully study whether this may be a reason why the Finnish school has better learning outcomes than the Norwegian. We therefore expect this to be discussed carefully in the forthcoming big message. With regard to the proposal No of the Progress Party. 2, I would like to use a quote from Professor Peder Haug at the seminar held in the Committee in January 2008: ‘To solve single challenges could risk creating more new ones. During a period almost 40 % of all students in Swedish school received special education, due to the automatic economic incentive.’ I think that is a pretty good summary of the point, namely that there is no indication that economic incentives related to special education lead to better learning for students; there may also be other consequences. The right supports the proposal to introduce a mandatory evaluation of teachers. We believe that if this is done in a well-considered and good way, it could help to increase the quality of educational activities in school. The evaluation must be carried out in such a way that the school and the teachers receive a constructive feedback - also on what is going well and from which others can learn - and should therefore be included as part of the employee interview. The right has been working for a long time to expand and improve cooperation between school and home. We know that good cooperation between home and school is positive for students' learning outcomes. Such cooperation shall provide parents with information on the objectives of training in the subject, the professional development of pupils in relation to the objectives and how the home can contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the students. Strengthening the involvement and awareness of parents could also help to reduce the scale of fighting and unrest. We do not want to give priority to the introduction of a free school meal scheme. We have both in our alternative budgets, and are going to do today, a priority which is to use school resources to strengthen vocational training. Suffering if you sometimes get into doubt when you hear socialists say something, so your parents have a seaworthy and obvious responsibility for the good education of their own children and making sure that children acquire good eating habits. It's a problem for your parents. So they have to make sure that their own children have healthy and good food at school, because it's absolutely right that good diet is also an important prerequisite for good learning. To get away from the old authoritarian school system, we ended up in the opposite ditch for a long time, where the dominant pedagogics have had the main focus on students to thrive at school and to know themselves rich at sea. It's important, but well-being isn't the main goal of the school. There has been a demand for teachers to have great respect for students, but to a small extent vice versa. This creates problems in the learning situation. Evolution depends on effort. Tolerating disappointments is a prerequisite for creative learning activities. Therefore, it is good that the pendulum now swings, and that even SV has begun to talk about the teacher having to get the authority back in the class. The raising of knowledge implies increased commitment to basic skills, clear learning objectives and improved learning skills. If the reform is followed up in a good way, I'm sure it will also provide better learning outcomes, more calm and better learning environments in the classes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e984	The theme that is considered today is important. Several studies have shown that Norwegian school is characterised by trouble and unrest. International studies may also indicate that there is a link between uneasiness in classrooms and poor learning outcomes. I would also like to say that common sense should mean that it is difficult to learn something where there is trouble and unrest. I believe that the essence of the matter is the role of the teacher. It is absolutely vital what status and security the teacher has in his teaching. Teachers must have good working conditions. They must have opportunities and time to be what they should be, namely, educators, and to be with the students and not be concerned with a number of other things in the job that take their time and energy. The teacher is a pedagogue to impart the necessary knowledge and to ensure that there is learning in the individual student. In order to do so, good learning strategies need to be kept up-to-date and developed. A good working environment must be created that gives room for learning. You can do a lot to make the students keep quiet, but it's not sure--at least there's no guarantee for it-- that they're learning something while they're sitting perfectly still. I'm almost going to say that some self-activity promotes more learning than the fact that the students are in line and row and listen and repeat. We have much more exciting ways of working, and with good results, where the students are moving and there's constructive unrest in the classroom. But unfortunately, there is a lot of evidence to suggest that the working environment in school does not provide good enough learning conditions for everyone. It may be that a good part of the teaching methods used today may be used without goal and meaning, i.e. a lot of activity and little learning, because one does not have a clear goal for the activity in the subject. It is a challenge for students who need structure, that we are currently using project-oriented working methods where students have to accept many impulses at once and structure their own working day. These are relationships in which the educational environments are much better suited to finding good solutions than the politicians from the Stockholm pulpit. With respect to reporting: After 20 years in high school with work as a teacher and principal, I can't recognize myself in the picture of Norwegian school that the Progress Party draws. I can't recognize myself when the Right says there's been too much focus on well-being, because it's my experience that if the students thrive, we get less anxiety at school. If the students have a good learning environment and thrive, we've got an inner path to solve the problems of anxiety. One thing is at least certain, and it is that we do not solve the problems of the 16 measures proposed in this document that we are dealing with today, because here it is all possible without coherence, setting up special schools, more police and free school food. The proposal as such focuses on an important issue, but solutions become too simple. We are against most of the proposals that are being made. We're against special schools, police, etc. We are against the motions for resolutions. 1, 2, 4, 5, 8, 11, 12, 13, 15 and 16 of Document No. The 8 proposal, and I don't have time to go into why. What is clear, however, is that the problem of school unrest can be solved. You don't have to set up special schools to solve it. So there might be students with behavioral problems, but they don't necessarily have to be the students who worry. Anxiety and trouble are a general problem at school, and therefore it is wrong to point to special schools as a solution. We would like to support and see something positive in some of the proposals in Document No. 8:113, e.g. the proposals No 9 and 10, where one asks the Government to ensure that class management becomes an integral part of teacher training, and that one focuses on cooperation between home and school. This we think is the right step to go. It is important to involve parents more actively in cooperation with the school. Similarly, it is important to facilitate greater entry into school of social professionals. But we have a broader approach than just pointing to that profession. In general, we believe that it should be opened up in order to get more professionals with different qualifications into school. It's pretty hard to say yes or no to each of the 16 proposals because they have to be seen in context, in a larger whole. This means that we believe that the conclusion in the matter should be that of Document No. 8:5 on loss of teaching time, i.e. the Government starts a nationwide survey of the causes and extent of loss of education throughout initial training. To launch scattered individual actions without knowledge of their causes becoming incorrect. One must have a broad approach to this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1003	Well over two years ago, Professor Alfred Oftedal Telhaug made a strong deal with what he called SV's school policy. That's not why I now refer to it, but in that context he asked the following questions: What are we going to do in Norwegian society when we can no longer support a general acceptance of Protestant duty? With that in mind, Alfred Telhaug said that when we don't have a general set of perceptions in society of right and wrong, rights and obligations, then we have mildly said a significant challenge. The debate we have today is about how the general perceptions of justice and wrong, rights and mutual obligations are to be reestablished in a society where we no longer have the Protestant duty to support ourselves unequivocally. There's reason to start with this, because school alone can never create something independent of society outside. That's why I think the teacher who spoke to a coworker of mine expressed himself well, as he taught the teacher said to the representative here in the house: we expect from you parents that when the children come to school, they're rested, they have a good food package, and they know what it's like to say good day. The rest we're going to get rid of. What this teacher expresses is an attempt to restore some of the minimum principles of Protestant duty. There is an attempt to reestablish some common norms in a dialogue between school and society and between parents and school. The left would very much like to stress that this is absolutely necessary as part of a whole that ultimately is a debate on calm, order, concentration and discipline in school. The left will also conclude that the rapporteurs have made a worthwhile effort by putting the topic on the agenda in the way they have done and that the rapporteur has done an excellent job. When we choose the approach we make and do not vote for any of the proposals, it's because we want to get back to this in other contexts and in a whole, where it belongs. But some comments are necessary. I think it's very true what the committee says in the setting, that when we listen to all the professionals who are trying to restore some new standards for the Left will call mutual respect in a learning situation, whether it's called PALS or Connect, which is now renamed Respect, the core of all these proposals is that there are some mutual rights and duties. All people in this life, whether small or large, must experience it. The headmaster of the Old Town School, as shown earlier in the debate, is a model by standing in the school gate every morning -- I've been with her -- and saying good day to everyone who comes to school. Good day, she says, and greets everyone. Then those who come to that school also realize that it has some consequences if you get five minutes late to an hour. You don't get referred to a penance but you end up, for example. in the library, for it must have the effect of suddenly starting to steal the time of others. It's also part of restoring what we can call the norms we're going to have in common. When we then go back to the Connect study, or as it is now called, the Respect Study, which was done in Oslo school a few years ago, it summed up some of what Left believes is the core of the whole thing, namely that in a situation where teachers are professionally safe and safe adults, a basis is created that allows concentration and order in the work situation in a school. In other words, it is absolutely vital how teachers are referred to in the thousands of Norwegian homes, cf. the small reference to the conversation that I started with in my post. It is quite important how governments, demanding teachers, meet society by giving an extended hand back, for example. through a systematised continuing training of competence, to which the Left will return in other contexts, and through a basic training of teachers which dramatically improves both subject, pedagogic and practical practice. Doing it takes time. This believes the Left is absolutely essential for us to achieve many of the purposes mentioned in the case. With regard to the debate on special measures, the Left is also concerned with the Finnish school, which uses teachers with good skills, who see young people struggling with their lives early. To do as in Finland, to use special pedagogues literally in seconds zero in a teaching situation, the Left believes is a perfectly correct approach. We think that in terms of the perception of what kind of school services we're going to have, we're essentially going to use a regular school, but the left believes in the mix we have in this capital, where we have 120 primary schools, about. 25-30 secondary schools and 20 special schools. The special schools are quite varied, but they meet different needs based on the hard school of life and on experience. They're not based on inhumanity, but on the fact that people are different. These words are Left's comments on the vote and our vote today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1029	The custom training principle shall be implemented in each individual school. With the growth of the local economy, they are better able to enable all the elephants to benefit from the training. The research is relatively clear that the segregation of elephants that show behavioral problems leads to these either continuing to have or to reinforce their problems. Placing elephants in segregated small groups may also lead to social isolation of some elephants. In my view, the comprehensive establishment of specific and segregated organisational measures will not solve the challenges of the Norwegian school. On the other hand, one in the public school needs to find good and attractive solutions for elephants with different backgrounds and different challenges. The proposers are contained in Document No. 8:113 for 2006-2007, 16 proposals to address the problems of unrest and discipline in the school. I would like to comment briefly on some of the central suggestions within the speaking time. Proposal No. 3 and 4 of Document No The 8 proposal applies to the social educational work to be seen as part of a health care system, so that there is a good link between different interventions for the individual student. Today, the social educational advisory services also have professionals with specific professional competence for this. Changes are now being made to the legislation on counselling with a view to sharing the service in a social educational part and a part covering educational and professional counselling. I'm positive that we need to look more closely at how we can get social and other types of skills into the school, and connect the skills that exist, up to the school -- without me believing the tools that are proposed here, they are the right ones. For proposal No 5 of Document No The 8th proposal: It is important that teachers receive feedback and assessments of their closure in their work. Schools are required to use the student survey at the seventh and tenth stages of the primary school and in further training. The examinations will be carried out, inter alia: information on how pupils, apprentices and parents assess the work of their teachers. National tests and mandatory screening tests provide knowledge of the quality of school work and of the closure of teachers. So to proposal No. 6 of Document No The 8th proposal: In schools where placements are involved in work processes and in educational work, they can be used as a resource. They will also strengthen a positive attitude towards education, learning and the learning environment. FUG shall work for good cooperation between school and home and shall take care of the interests of parents in school settings. The Education Directorate, in cooperation with the FUG, has just made a proposal for a cooperation agreement between leaders/parents and schools, to inspire cooperation. These cooperation agreements are particularly useful where one experiences major problems and conflicts. So to proposal No. 10 and 11 in the document: The current framework for teacher training requires students to develop opportunities for interaction and communication, and to be clear as leaders. We will continue to work in that direction in connection with the staging message about the teacher's role and the teacher's training in the future. At present, there is a complete consensus that the additional resources provided by municipalities and county councils through the ‘Knowledge for Development’ strategy for the period 2005-2008 should be prioritised in line with local skills needs. An evaluation will come to spring, and in my view, as the Government has proposed in the 2008 State Budget, we should continue it this year. In the case of proposal No: 6 of Document No The 8-proposal: all schools shall have a school-environment selection where the elephants and the occupants shall be in a plurality. The school environment selection shall contribute to the active participation of the school, the students and the trainees in the creation of a good training environment. Programmes for the development of a good learning environment are many. There are actions that have been shown to have an impact and that have received state support. So to proposal No. 15 in the document: Both the PISA 2003 and the Student Survey have shown that many elephants are plagued by turbulence in the school. Training laws §§§2-9 and 3-7 require the owners of schools to ensure that regulations are laid down for the individual school. In this context, I refer to the creation of a circular, Udir - 07-2005, on rules of procedure which contain principles for the preparation and use of the rules. In the case of proposal No: 16, I would say that a selection has recently been created to look at the superior principles of special education and the right to adapt training. It was said here that the Progress Party is alone in believing that there is a connection between the learning environment and the result. It's wrong, of course. Of course, the learning environment and the result for the students are closely linked. The question is, what kind of learning environment do we want to facilitate? And what kind of measures do we take to get that learning environment? Then I think that most of us can be certain that the code of cadaver from the past is not the way forward, but that we need to strengthen a school that promotes respect, that one should take care of one another, and that the actions of the elephants have consequences. There are some individual measures that need to be implemented - many are in progress - but of course the holistic work that takes place nationally and locally is also important.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1058	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1061	Some students are struggling with a lot of behavioral problems because they have problems in a number of other areas of life, not just in school. The Progress Party is today promoting a proposal for cross-sectoral cooperation in order to be able to intervene early and with broad professional weight in the case of pupils with behavioural disabilities. Government parties have announced that they will vote against, as the Council of State also underlined in its statement. What, then, is the proposal of the Council of State for action and advice to a teacher who in high school experiences having a student who is uneasy and quarrelsome, who does not take notice, or who offers resistance to borders and clearly has an authoritarian conflict?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1068	First, there are many people who can be a little troubled at a young age without having behavioral problems that give a diagnosis or cause them to be placed in special schools. Secondly, broad research shows that elephants with different challenges should be within the same system and not be segregated. There is provision for elephants today that have a special need for it. The question here is where the threshold should be. So I'm going to show you one of the recordings that I think is constructive here, the question of getting more health and social education skills, and, as far as other competences, into school, either through addition or through increased use of cooperation. What I think is a big challenge. We see that a lot of municipalities actually work well, but we still have a lot to go on in that area for years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1079	After all, there is a great deal of consensus about the teacher's key role in children's learning and development. Evaluation of teachers has long been a matter of struggle for the Student Organisation as well. They've been working on it for years. The right is of the opinion that if you use the evaluation correctly and in a good and balanced way, it will be a very important tool for school management to both motivate teachers to adjust the course where things don't work well, and to share examples with other teachers, and not least to help those teachers who don't work. Then my question to the Council of State: why do the government parties have this extreme fear of evaluating teachers, when we know at the same time that the teacher might be the most important individual factor in children's learning?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1086	On the contrary, we are very positive that teachers should be evaluated in a variety of ways, as they are also in today's school. Of course, the principal and the principal at the individual school are responsible for both evaluating and following up and guiding the teachers. Fortunately, we have an extensive use of cooperation between teachers, and to a far greater extent than before, where one evaluates each other's teaching. In addition, we have a number of studies, for example: The student survey, which can be used in various ways to evaluate their efforts. So I would like to stress that the tests we now have - the national tests, screening tests, etc. - also evaluates the results of the students and thus says something about the learning of individual subjects in the individual classroom. So it's important both to evaluate and not least to follow up and guide the teachers, but in other ways than what the Right proposes in its proposal now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1091	The Christian People's Party believes there's a connection between anxiety, dissatisfaction and the feeling of being short. We believe that some students, especially in childhood, are struggling because they have a theory heavy schoolwork day. When they do not master school everyday life, the result may be distress. I heard from the post of the Council of State that he was positive about having other occupational groups in school, not only groups of social professionals, but also other competences. The Christian People's Party is concerned with a more practical school day, where you can get in both crafts and other practical subjects and activities. Instead of sending students to special schools, there can be an alternative to making school a master arena for some. Is the Council of State positive to think along those lines?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1100	Now we're not going to have any add-on processes from the Storting Chair. I would like to stress that these are the local authorities, i.e. counties and municipalities and the individual schools, which are responsible for acquiring the skills they need. I don't think there's any doubt that different groups of professionals who have the pedagogical skills that must be the basics of the school can be a good addition to teachers and others. In addition, we see that we have some schools with special offerings for separate elephants, which have elements in them to be able to hit more people in the ordinary public school. I'm positive with this thinking, and I thought we saw a lot of good examples of something happening in that direction around Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1109	Throughout the debate, it has been stressed that there needs to be an open and honest debate on the content of the school. As the Left sees it, we have some concerns because that debate has been absent in many Norwegian municipalities. We have a debate on which school buildings we are going to have, at least on where they are going to be. We have subsequently also had a debate that the students should be healthy, in the sense that they should not get sick from being inside these buildings. The left is concerned about and would like to come back to the Council of States with questions about whether we can have a local debate on the content of school, a debate where it may be possible to discuss how to create the common framework and - we should call it - the rules of the game that are necessary, and which can lead to a teacher telling parents that they expect the children to rest in school, that they have an OK food package, and that they understand what good day means - and the rest we should do. What are the thoughts of the Council of State on how to revisit a debate on the school locally, so that there is a mutual case between local communities, teachers, students and parents?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1118	I would like to encourage local politicians all over Norway to put school on the agenda at least once a year, with the quality, content and results of the school as a theme. In my opinion, parents, teachers and others should demand it from their local politicians. A starting point for such a debate may be national samples and the mandatory screening tests. Another starting point should be: does one bet enough on the competence of principals, teachers and others in school? Does one focus enough on the years before transition to school? Can you follow up the students with their starting point from the beginning of the school year? I could have mentioned other things if I had had better time, but I would repeat: I thought municipal politicians would discuss the school's content, and I thought everyone who has to do with the school should demand it from their politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1125	I hear that the Council of State will go into the matter. That's great. What can the Council of State expect to do as a matter of urgency to prevent students from leaving by class year after year without almost anything happening?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1132	One might sometimes wonder if the Progress Party is enough around in Norwegian classrooms and consider all the good work that one does there, how well it will work to get a good learning environment, for concentration and focus to be at the center, and for respect and consideration of each other to apply. And then we have a lot left to go on. I have now gone through many measures, actions that have been implemented and that we will consider in the future. But I think we need to have the picture of how a person works. If we are to be able to get to the most important thing here, simply respect for the teacher and the people who do the job, we must also show respect for the job they do today in the Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1140	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1145	First, I have to say that I was rather upset by the SV's representative Lena Jensen, who was able to say something such as that the human vision of the Progress Party was a major problem in relation to adapted training and special education. If there's a big problem, it's that children are actually being integrated into solitude today. To stand alone in a free minute and be clearly different from others in the class is difficult, and it's stigmatizing. Then you can talk about poor human vision -- if someone wants it. Back to the beginning and what I had really prepared for: it is time to admit that the Norwegian school has a significant problem with trouble and trouble in the classroom. There are several problem factors involved, and it's our responsibility as politicians to focus on them and show the power of action to get them solved. Children need clear adults, adults who can be leaders, and adults who can set limits. Actually, setting limits is a sign that we care. A child’s schooling day will depend on several factors in order to be meaningful. Cooperation between school and home needs to be much more focused. Many young people today come to the first hour without lunch in their stomachs, without possibly having contact with their parents or other adults, and without the ballast needed to be able to interact with other children. The fight for attention at school steals time from learning. The Progress Party therefore refers to the important work of the Parental Committee for Primary School, FUG, to help parents with a better understanding of how they can help to influence their children’s everyday school life. Fuzzy rules affect the teacher's role in the classroom. Too much interaction between activity and subjects, new student groups and compositions, too much responsibility for your own learning, lack of learning goals and maybe the last, but not least, lack of motivated children are just some of the areas we need to look at. All of these factors -- and probably many more -- have led us to face a day of school life how much of the precious time is going to help get the rest of the class instead of learning. It is totally unacceptable that almost one third of the time in Norwegian classrooms is involved in non-professional activities. It's important to be able to see the individual student. There are often complex reasons why students are worried, and we have to distinguish between students who are bored or talking - a little small talk - and students who have serious behavioural problems. Therefore, the solution will also be different for different student types. It is necessary to facilitate the possibility for students who do not master an ordinary teaching situation to have an alternative approach. This should lead to increased pressure for better individual organisation in the school situation, rather than just a call for more collective action. It is important now to focus on early interventions, to see if this is one of the reasons why Finnish school is doing so much better than Norwegian. When we see today the need for more quiet in the classroom, this is based on the recognition that something has to be done. It has been important to be concrete in many of the proposals that we have made in the proposals of the Progress Party. If we are to succeed in grasping this, it is of great importance that it is not only beautiful words, but also followed up with action.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1160	The Progress Party claims both on its website and here in the Chamber today that the majority in this Chamber are not concerned with stopping trouble and unrest in school. This is completely wrong. It is important to relate to reality and to numbers as they are today. We know that over the last 15 years, we have seen a sharp increase in segregated measures. The number of alternative schools has also increased. We know that we have too little knowledge of these measures. We know that a lot of students go out and never come back to the ordinary classroom. Therefore, the government parties in Stortinget are very concerned that more research should be done on this, how this is experienced for each student and the individual parents. What worries us is that we have begun to have a domino effect, which the Progress Party, through its proposals in the UK today, would have increased by investing in even more segregated measures, even more special schools. New research figures also show that about 15 pst. of our schoolchildren have different types of behavioural problems, such as anxiety and concentration problems. We can almost start calling this a normal phenomenon, and it's obviously serious. What is an important medicine for this is early effort: organized education, organized training where children get early help for the problems they have, rather than falling outside the social community. This is exactly the opposite of what the Progress Party wants. And when the Progress Party says that only through this proposal have we started to focus troubles and concerns in school, it's completely wrong. For example, I can refer to the comments in the settings on school-home cooperation. The whole size is concerned about this, and the government parties are very concerned about this. During the treatment of the state budget, we granted an increase to the Parental Committee for Primary School, so that you can work even more closely and focus more on supporting parents in encouraging their children in the learning situation. The Committee also asks the Government to assess how the knowledge of school-home cooperation can best be enhanced in teacher training.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1175	The representative Lena Jensen said you should deal with the realities, and I would like a few more people to do that. When we hear in the debate that the Progress Party is in favour of reintroducing the cascade hook and the spanish tube, and that we are drawing out abuses in special schools, then perhaps we are not dealing with the realities of the proposal for a representative. The quality concept at school is complex. It is linked to the fact that there are a good number of national and local goals for the school, and they are many and complex. Training has a broader perspective than providing students with expertise and skills. There is talk of both a education and education perspective, and it is important that everyone takes part in the debate. We all agree that Norwegian classrooms are characterized by trouble and unrest. It looks as if the problem is bigger at the lower stages and decreasing up at school. We had a new student survey in 2007 that again revealed that only 12 pst. replied ‘rare’ or ‘never’ to the question of whether the teacher spent a lot of time getting settled in the class. In terms of punctuality, we see the opposite trend. Nearly half of the students in the tenth grade say they're often late for class. Such a lack of order and respect for teachers and fellow students goes naturally beyond the learning environment. It is probably also natural to conclude that this once again affects professional performance. It was brought out here instead that it was important to enjoy well-being. 95 pst. Norwegian students thrive at school. The challenge is to maintain that well-being and at the same time create the necessary calm and discipline so that there is a good learning environment in the individual classroom. Although the position highlights that the school is a good socialization arena and that the students have a well-developed sense of democracy, it does not reflect as much education as the classroom appears to be almost like a Polish parliament. It will also be difficult to have the necessary professional pressure, both in relation to coherence, continuity, depth and requirements for students. Low expectations and unclear communities may thus increase differences rather than equalise differences. I thought the government parties were concerned about that problem. Similarly, when we talk about early efforts in relation to children with behavioral problems, it's a concept that government parties have also made of their own. That is why I am a little surprised that it is to a large extent the Progress Party that is standing alone on the proposals today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1190	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 2048]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1205	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines within the allocated speaking time of up to five lines following the intervention of the Council of State. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1214	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for constructive cooperation and for a good dialogue on an important topic. This debate touches on much of the same topic as we were in the previous debate on fighting and unrest at school. The loss of teaching time in Norwegian schools is an important topic, and this theme is taken seriously. Both the PISA and the Student Survey show that many students are troubled at school. This means that both teachers and students need to spend a lot of time on activities that do not promote learning, which in turn leads to the loss of learning and learning time. This can also lead to very late learning, to its interruption, and to different types of interference along the way. In its position, the Committee has promoted research in this field, including: research led by Peder Haug at the Hochskulen in Volda, where one actually finds out that only half the time in school is spent in the subject. This, of course, varies from classroom to classroom. In student groups where education is thorough, systematic and coherent, and where the teacher focuses on motivating and challenging the student and keeping the professional focus up, the working environment is much better. The research shows that the teacher’s competence is crucial in the use of school teaching time. This research is also consistent with a lot of other research. In the previous debate, we were also involved for many different reasons of anxiety and loss of teaching time. I would also like to highlight what the evaluation of reform 97 shows. It's very diverse, and many different kinds of problems are raised. These include: that the rules may be unclear and that the students do not have control. It's that a number of forms of work in school are disturbing, and also that the teacher is not able to relax in the classroom. There may be a lack of systematics in work or a lack of continuous time for professional work, i.e. there is too much exchange in activities. In other classrooms, there is too little variation in training. Another thing is that you actually spend too much time on things other than learning. One reason might also be that the teacher has been withdrawn from teaching the students, or that the teacher has received too many tasks that remove the focus from the student and the learning. Another explanation is that in some classrooms, the individual focus on individual work is very high, that the cooperation and interaction between the students are decreasing, and that the groups can be too large. This shows that different measures are necessary and that there will be a difference between school and classroom and classroom. Therefore, it is important that municipalities and schools work systematically on this. I am glad that the government has notified a big message about teacher training, and that in other ways it is working systematically to strengthen teacher training after NOKUT's evaluation. The Government is in the process of developing a national strategy for education research to contribute to greater coordination of research efforts, with a view to a more systematic overview and identification of the causes of loss of education time. The Government has also established a research programme in the Norwegian Research Council. Loss of teaching time cannot be assessed and treated in isolation from quality development in general at school. I point out that the government will present a report of quality in the school where both the lack of work and the loss of teaching time will be a topic. Last week, I met a father of a 20 - year - old boy. The boy had an assistant all the years he went to school. He had got the hours he needed, but the contents of these hours had not given good results. This was discovered by the parents only when the student had a support contact in the evening. In fact, it turned out that the results for this student after contact with support were revolutionary. That's why it's important that we have a strong focus on the content of the hours our students get. Finally, I just want to say that SV believes that it is not necessary to submit to the Right-wing proposal. We have a lot of research in this area, and there is no need to spend even more resources to get a survey of lost teaching time in the Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1242	The debate after Christmas has shown that we have major challenges in the Norwegian school. The challenges range from poor reading and writing skills and poor math skills to trouble and trouble in an hour. Today we are dealing with two representative proposals that deal with the very last. They have different approaches, but are easily intertwined, and that is not to avoid mentioning some of the things that have already been said in the previous debate. Studies and research have shown that much of the teaching time is a cause of alarm in hours. Students' studies show that students are well at school. That's where they have their friends. But the students also state that a lot of time is allowed for the teacher to try to calm down in the class after the end of the free minute. The teacher also spends much of his teaching time on briefing and planning. In addition, studies show that Norwegian students have a high level of democratic understanding. They participate in debates in the class, take the floor and have high confidence. Earlier this year, the representative Anders Anundsen from the Progress Party raised the topic in an interpellation. The problem then was that several high school students cut their teaching time to save money. There is a broad political consensus that the loss of teaching time is a problem that needs to be solved. The proposal for the Right involves a survey of the reasons for the loss of teaching time. I don't think that in itself is the answer. It's more complex than that. It is related, inter alia, to: the role of the teacher, the number of pupils in a class and cooperation with the home. In addition, the quality of education is central. There'll be a big message on that later. In order for the student to get the most out of teaching time, it is important to have a safe teacher who can do his or her job and who takes control of the hour. I have no doubt that there are many skilled teachers in Norwegian school today. But it is important that we get an overall review of teacher training in a big message, and like the representative Lena Jensen, I am very pleased that that review has been announced. Times change, and so does the student mass. In addition, during the spring we will discuss a number of representative proposals - on teacher recruitment and enhanced teacher competence, 5-year teacher training and teacher mobility in primary and secondary schools. I look forward to good debates in those areas beyond spring. Of course, it is not good that the students lose a lot of teaching time, but the signals are that the students are safe. They're safe on each other, and they're safe on the role of a student. Drying questions, taking discussions, and being involved in deciding about their own school day are important. We don't want to go back to the time when the students were lighting the lights in the hour - afraid of the scabbard hook and the pole. Then the learning outcomes weren't necessarily on top. At the seminar in the context of the consideration of the proposal of the Progress Party on unrest, which we recently debated, we were given a good example of this. In a class with a lot of anxiety, the exchange of subjects, classrooms and teachers can create calmness, but it is not said that the learning outcomes are something greater. The problem is complex - motivation for the subject, learning methods and the indoor environment. It is important that parents take part in children’s schooling and that the school facilitates parental cooperation with the school. School-home cooperation is central to understanding respect and other key issues that arise in a child's life. It is important that parents encourage their children to learn. That's an important proposal right there. The Government is in the process of developing a national strategy for education research in order to achieve greater coordination of research efforts. In this way, a more systematic overview is provided, and the reasons for the loss of teaching time are precisely identified. The Government has also established a research programme in the Norwegian Research Council and the allocation to the Research Programme Knowledge, Education and Learning has continued.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1263	We have just had a debate on unrest at school, and we all see that many of the problem areas mentioned there also intervene in the proposal for a representative we are now considering. Just the need to see things in context, find the red thread -- some talk about the domino effect -- makes the various measures promoted, actually have consequences and ring-effects for a much larger field within the school. It turns out that after this proposal was promoted by the Right, there have been examples of some high school students planning a smaller range of hours compared to the minimum set by the curriculum. Furthermore, it has also become known that some schools allow the provision of ordinary class hours for students when they have been and participated in various events after school. There is currently no systematic and nationwide survey of the situation, which in our eyes must be put in place as soon as possible. That's why it's actually urgent to put this in place right now. We had hoped that the government parties could have seized this ball. In its motion for a resolution, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has tabled a number of amendments. 8:113 made it clear that the loss of teaching time may be due to both structural conditions at the overall level, such as cut during teaching hours, requirements for teachers as administrator and non-teacher, and conditions coming from below, i.e. problems and concerns and disturbances from the students. It's also a fact that a lot of time goes away to non-professional tasks like administration, telling what's going to happen, corrections, etc. Furthermore, we have seen that class teachers often have to leave the classroom for different reasons, leading to further unrest and loss of time. The party of progress has highlighted the importance of the teacher being present in the classroom preferably throughout the hour. The teacher should be the first to come, and the last to go. We have also seen lack of resources and tight budgets used as an argument, and we understand that. It's probably true in those schools where you have problems finding qualified temporary workers that can step in if necessary. Quality costs. It's a reality. Many schools allow entire classes to sit alone with only sporadic supervision or allow the students to be sent out earlier in the free minute, to save money. In our opinion, in such cases, school management should give far greater priority to the classroom or the learning arena and not to the administrative, which can be pushed on in such cases. Two studies on education in Norwegian school concluded that relatively much of the time goes with things that are not professional. One study actually found out that 30 pst. of the time during the school hour goes to anything other than learning. It is also important that there is sufficient interdisciplinary competence in the school so that the teacher can concentrate on being a professional professional intermediary and not having to be a psychologist, a parent and a social worker at the same time. A group that suffers most from loss of education is boys in high school. A school that is more theoretically based, and allows the individual student greater freedom, causes more people to fall outside. Increased focus on learning methodology adapted to individual groups is one option, in addition to several other instruments. In addition, there is a growing need to be able to motivate individual students, as well as vocational guidance. The dissolution of the solid-unit class may also be a contributing factor in the increasing tension and unrest. Several members of the Committee have also been mentioned today. It is also important that students receive more differentiated education than now in order to get more focus on professional activities, so that good students also have greater challenges. In particular, these students may feel that much of the teaching time goes with non-professional things, and not least that there is a lot of repetition of the same substance with the aim that everyone is going with and preferably at once.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1286	I'll start by taking up the proposal, and it's done. The right-hand proposal is divided by two. It is partly about lost teaching time as a result of trouble and unrest and partly about lost teaching time as a result of the fact that students do not receive the instruction they require according to their curricula. There are many reasons why many students in the Norwegian school do not get the number of hours of education they require. The main problem today is that there is no systematic evidence of the extent of lost teaching time for students. That's why the representative Lena Jensen doesn't say that we know enough about this. Was it so that we knew enough, it was all the more puzzled why the Government has not taken action to ensure that the students get the instruction they are entitled to. It is also well documented that trouble in the class weakens the learning environment. We have just had a longer debate on this and have developed several aspects. Anxiety, disturbance, and late attendance mean that students start schoolwork late in the hours. The 2006 survey on pupils’inspections shows that seven out of ten tenths of them report that teachers spend a lot of time trying to calm down in the class. It is also supported by the 2003 PISA study. Erling Roland at the Behavioral Research Centre stated for a while back to the Evening Post: ‘It has been a perception that tackling the disciplinary problems is an expression of an authoritarian attitude towards children and young people that we do not want in Norway.’ It is precisely those attitudes that need to be changed if the learning environment is to be improved. Several researchers have pointed out that one of the main causes of trouble and unrest in the classes is that many teachers do not function as good leaders. In this way, the teaching profession does not distinguish itself from other management jobs where delimitation is an important part of professional practice. The right believes that it is important to remember that the teacher is not only a professional but also has to perform important leadership functions in relation to the students. As with all other leaders, it is necessary to find the balance sheet. A teacher shall be an authority without becoming an authoritarian. Should the school be able to expect the students to deliver as desired, the school must first deliver what it is obliged to do. In the last few months, we've had numerous examples of how it's being cut in the students' teaching time. Oversight has been established in several schools, cutting the teaching time of teachers and, therefore, of students, freeing resources that the school management believes can be used for other functions. Another well-known example is that summer holidays often start long before the last day of school. In the spring of 2007, the evening post asked nine students from nine different secondary schools to log what education they had from 10 April 2007 to approx. 21 June 2007. It turns out for these students have an average of more than 30 pst. hours lost. When they logged especially for the months of May and June, it turned out that up to half of the teaching hours in that period disappeared into things other than ordinary education. In the weeks before the summer holiday, the school days are filled with bathing, cake pissing, cinema, theater, excursions - and one of the most frequent reasons why the schedule is not followed is that teachers are busy with other things, such as courses, tours with other classes and sensory activities. All schools are, as you know, obliged to meet minimum educational requirements, and such cuts are therefore a violation of students’ statutory rights. There is currently no system to make sure that the students get the number of hours they need. In the right, it is important to provide an overview of the extent and causes of the loss of teaching time, so that the prevalence of the problem can be established so that the necessary measures can be taken. While systematic monitoring needs to be carried out, it is crucial that the local school owner continues to focus heavily on meeting the requirements of teaching time. The letter received by the Committee from the Norwegian Lektorlag estimates that about 1/3 of the teaching time disappears in difficulty and unrest and that it is planned for a minimum number of hours than the national minimum standard. In the new curricula of the Knowledge Charter, there is a stronger commitment on the part of the schools to provide students with the levels of education they will have in each subject. Each syllabus is given with a vintage metal and not a number of weeks as before. It has thus become easier for both pupils, parents and educational authorities to follow up on whether schools fulfil their obligations. Although the promise of knowledge implies an improvement in relation to the situation as it was in the past, the Right considers that it is important to develop a nationwide survey of the causes and extent of loss of education throughout initial training. We need to ensure that the students are guaranteed the training period they require, and that the hours they have are used in the best possible way, for professional education and training. Especially in the light of the many discussions we now have about extending the school day, it is particularly important that we make sure that the teaching time we actually have is used as intended.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1315	The representative, Ms Soreide, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1318	Initially, I would like to say that I agree with the representative of Eriksen Soreide, who says that there is no systematic documentation of the loss of teaching time. But in addition, there is no definition of what you mean by lost teaching time, because today's debate has at least shown so far that you talk about different things. Is it lost teaching time when the class is on a ski trip? Is it lost teaching time when teaching or learning takes place in three different rooms, when the students are divided into libraries, classrooms, group rooms and teachers go in and out all the way? Or to ask the question in another way: Is it lost teaching time if the teacher is out of classroom? My claim is no, so if there's learning and the student has a learning arena and a problem, this doesn't have to be seen. So the initial conclusion must be that if you're going to map this and get a common result, you're going to have to define the lost learning time. The Christian People's Party agrees with the proposers that lost teaching time is a problem. There is a need to go in more thoroughly to find the cause of the problem. We have too little knowledge of the causes and extent of the loss of teaching time. This means that it is not going to be constructive to introduce scattered individual measures. That's why we think there's a need to agree on what we're talking about and get a nationwide survey. The Christian People's Party will therefore support the proposal submitted. Several studies have shown that Norwegian school is struggling with trouble and trouble. Students clearly demonstrate that there is a problem that inhibits education. Talking about lost teaching time is a constructive way to approach this issue. Because this is the real consequence of trouble and unrest in the hours. If there is no setup for the students, there is a likelihood that there may be trouble. At the same time, the proposal focuses on other elements that hamper teaching. It takes time to start teaching, and there may be interruptions of many kinds that lead to a lot of valuable time going away. Another problem pointed out is the lack of teachers, especially in high school. Problems with, inter alia: Getting qualified temporary workers makes you have hours without a teacher. It should be a minimum measure that you had a national recruitment plan and a focus on employing a sufficient number of teachers in school. With the generation change that will come in the next few years, the government is in a hurry to get its eyes up on this problem. It is serious when, in a letter from Norsk Lektorlag to the Ministry of Knowledge last November, examples show that some secondary schools plan to offer fewer hours compared to the minimum set by the curricula. It will hit the individual student. It must put the receiver of the message on alert. We have to make sure that we provide students with the education they require, and then the teaching time is a crucial element. To put it another way: there may be a need to tighten up, so that the students get the number of hours they are entitled to under the law. Finally, I think it's a danger when we discuss the challenges in school, that we look too much into school's problems and forget about society around us. I think we need to see more clearly that school and school challenges need to be seen more in a holistic society perspective. I think we need to be more serious about the fact that the society we see outside of school is also reflected in school. The school and its student mass will mirror the community of which they are part. This is why we believe that even more general family policies will help to create good educational environments in school. Efforts at parental guidance, child and youth psychiatry, family counselling, combating unemployment - which fortunately is much lower now - adult education, etc. contributes to the creation of good growth conditions and has a positive impact on learners’ learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1333	We have national tests in Norway to check how learning goals are achieved. We do it because we want to find out where the schools, the students and the teachers are in relation to very specific objectives, in concrete areas. If I were to rewrite the Right's proposal to study lost teaching time - for which the Left votes - I would say that it is a national test for politicians. We expose students to national tests, but a national test for politicians is about how those responsible for national policy, those who in turn are responsible for local policy, whether in a municipality or a county municipality, follow up. This is, of course, the kind of knowledge that representatives of the interlocutors have been involved in, which makes it possible to figure out the various reasons why time is lost. We know, of course, that when you underfinance county municipalities, when it gets small with money in a county municipality responsible for high school, yes, then you will have problems. We have enough anecdotes about temporary workers that don't come, and you're left to yourself. Having a systematic study is going past the anecdotes and making sure you get systematic knowledge. It's amazing that we get this knowledge of the students -- we have it to a significant extent -- while this test, which is about how school owners, to use the modern word, seem, you're not willing to vote for it. The left will actually encourage the red-green government to go a little bit in the mind box, so you can figure this out, because that's the way you expose others to, you also have to expose yourself to. That's a pretty simple morality in it. As a community, we have agreed that we want to define concrete learning goals, we want to press on the learning goals. We've defined it as concrete skills. It's in the Knowledge Lift. And then we're going to try out where to stand, both in order to be more educational in achieving the goals, and in order for the individual to know that it's a development. The left also believes that an approach like this will in another way shed light on what was also in the hands of the previous representative, the representative, Mr Tørersdal, that there is a poor record of leaving for teachers approaching retirement age. In this room, government parties have rather massively rejected any attempt to create systematic national recruitment plans for teachers, both in high school and in primary school - completely massive. The underlying thing has probably been that you think you have complete control. That's one of the reasons why we, who are then downhearted when we promote visible and, in our opinion, obviously good suggestions, have to come back in other ways. To go into whether or not you get the teaching time you're going to have is to give us insight. And the answers are sure, as it says in the committee setting, compound-- there's several reasons why it gets like this. We know, as we were in the last case, that you want to lose time when you're not concentrated enough. But such an instrument will also be able to support the positive feedback given by the Council of State in the past, to strengthen school management - that is, to strengthen the management of the individual school - and also the feedback given by the Council of State to me on a question-time issue, to strengthen the quality of administrative management in a municipality. What is left's concern now is that when we no longer control the school locally -- and we don't think we should do that -- then we need enough knowledge to allow us to reflect what's happening locally. We mirror students. We must also be able to mirror school owners. The insight that I believe the study that is proposed here, and which unfortunately is downcast, would have been a contribution to a local debate that is about what's going on with the school in our municipality and in our county. What can we do to improve our quality? What can we do to support under the general and common rules we want between teachers and students and teachers, students and parents? And what can we do to stimulate professional development, continuing training, continuing systematic training? Getting this knowledge on the table, as well as what it's referred to in the committee setting for Peder Haug's work, as well as what the committee leader pointed out when it comes to the recording from the lecturer team, would be a useful tool for Norwegian school. So with these premises, the Left supports such a national test -- to use that expression -- for school owners. After all, we have to make the same assessment, we, as we believe we have to submit to everyone else, and as it has gradually become a broad agreement in Stortinget that we should have - that is, the national tests - for the results we achieve. This is a way to test us who are school owners and have political responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1354	Both PISA 2003 and the Student Survey show that many elephants are troubled at school. This means that both learners and learners need to spend a lot of time on non-learning activities. It leads to lost teaching time and is a challenge that I take seriously. When the teaching time is not used well, there may be symptoms of at least three things -- first, that the teachers do not have the skills and authority necessary to create a good learning environment; second, that the school has not established clear enough rules and standards of conduct throughout the school; and third, that the student does not have the mutual respect for each other necessary to interact. I therefore believe it is important to stress that it is the general pedagogical approaches that produce results for well-being, learning and behavior. Leadership and their addition to the individual school must work systematically and in the long term to create a good learning environment. It is therefore important that both research on lost teaching time and tools be put in a wider context. The Ministry is in the process of developing a national strategy for education research to contribute to greater coordination of efforts. The Government also strengthens the commitment to educational research with the creation of a new research programme in the Research Council and continues the allocations from the Knowledge, Education and Learning programme. There is also a warning that the Government will present a quality report in the training. Lack of rest and loss of teaching time because of this will be important problem settings in the message. In addition to making good use of hours, it is particularly important that students actually get the hours they have the right to. The professional and hourly distribution of the initial training of the elephants is regulated by the Regulation of the Training Act. The requirement sets a minimum of one hour for each subject to receive further training. By law, students are entitled to training in accordance with the regulations. It's not acceptable if students don't get the hours they need. I'm busy getting as good a picture of the situation as possible, while at the same time ensuring students' rights. The Directorate of Education, by letter of 7 December 2007, has entrusted the counties with the task of carrying out written supervision of the compliance of counties with the minimum hours for the training of elephants in secondary schools. The supervision shall determine whether the schools have a defensive system to ensure that the students are given the hours they are entitled to. This should be done by checking that the schools plan the school year, so that the students receive the classes they require. Supervision shall be carried out as a self-reported written supervision, where the county must do well to ensure that the minimum hours are met. Municipalities must also submit plans to correct any deviations. The county council may request further documentation. To the extent that there is a breach of the legislation, county councils will require county councils to rectify the situation. In addition, I would like to add that when there is a notification of a situation that may be a violation of the law, this is naturally followed up by the department towards the county, or by direct contact. It is also important for me to say that we must encourage that a take-up of it might be a minor deviation from the law, if one has the basis to believe it. Finally, I will say that the result of that supervision will be reported to the Education Directorate by 30 May 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1375	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1379	Today, the government parties will not support this proposal to identify the reasons for the loss of teaching time. Instead, reference is made to future education research and to a forthcoming report on quality in school. Governments pointed out in their statement that lost teaching time is a symptom of three things. One was the teacher's lack of competence and authority; the other was that the students lack mutual respect; and the third was that each school has not established clear rules and standards of conduct at school. My question then is: what will the Council of State actually do to ensure that such rules and standards are established at all Norwegian schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1388	I guess I showed you that there could be three things. Then we have regulations of order that are regulated in the training laws of all Norwegian schools, in addition to a systematic and good work of the principal and school leadership, which is the class leader role of the individual teacher, and which is also to be closely followed up by municipalities and county councils around Norway. In addition, there are important measures in the other areas, not least when it comes to competence. There we have worked so far on a big message about the role of teachers and the training of teachers. There are also questions about how to obtain clear and good guidance in the class for the individual teacher. A work where a caretaker makes good use of teaching time will also be important.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1395	It is true that any proposal from the opposition seems to have to be backed up by a future announcement from the Government, but I also want specific feedback on the proposals we are promoting. I do not think it is in any way satisfactory that the information we receive on the extent of the loss of teaching time comes through media lookups, reports and self-reporting. The lack of a systematic effort to identify the causes and extent of loss of education time is not good enough. One of the stories mentioned is published in Education No. 3 2008, where reference is made to the fact that in Workers’ Party, SV and Centre Party-led Buskerud, the adviser will streamline the operation of secondary schools by not giving the number of hours in each subject specified by the Ministry of Knowledge in circular F-12-06. So it's a planned minor consumption, and it's hardly a single case. Does the Council of State think it acceptable for his party traps in Buskerud to plan for such a small amount of time spent by the students?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1406	I do not know the individual case referred to here, but I would like to say on a general basis that all planned deviations from the minimum number of hours required by the students should be followed up. That is to say, any report that comes in on the possibility of anomalies, or that there may be a planned deviation, should be examined. The role of the county council is to ensure that this is followed up in all the states of Norway. It's just a warning that we're going to have an oversight, that is, an investigation of how this can be followed up around Norway, if that kind of planning is going on. Then I'll come back with the results from it, so we'll get a better basis for the further discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1413	It has become a truth that there are many hours of school leaving both primary and secondary. The focus was on the NHO Annual Conference, where the Prime Minister was asked the question: what do they do in the time that falls away, with everything that goes away from normal teaching time? It's a truth, but you don't know the extent, and you don't agree about what's really happening in the time that's falling away, and why: whether it's because there's not a teacher there, or whether the teacher's doing other things, or there's teachers missing at school. The debate today has been very much about the need for monitoring in order to take action against this. But I have a question to the Council of State: isn't there also a need for a survey to prevent the school from having that burden, criticism or accusation pending that they are wasting education?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1420	Let me first make it clear that there are two slightly different things that many people here have been dealing with. One thing is that you get the minimum hours you have a right to. That's where we've been looking at an oversight. Reports from it will be published. The level of supervision is more systematic to find out whether there are deviations from the minimum hours, and it will provide a good basis for assessing further action. The second is a very complex and much more difficult problem, which is what your teaching time is used for. There I showed that there will be an area we will be able to reach, in connection with a new strategy for education research. Because there's no doubt that just as the questioner asks, we need to have a greater knowledge base for further action than all of the things we're already doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1427	The opposition really invites the Council of State to be part of something sensible, namely to find out in common what you're spending time on. The council spends about all its time saying that he will basically come back to, with a message, later. On the left hand side, we just have to bear in mind that when we from the Left and the opposition parties propose to have a national recruiting of teachers, it agrees - so far. When we propose to provide systematic, competent further training, it is put to the vote. I understand that the proposal today is being voted down, even though the Council of State in the last answer was close in touch at least to agree that there is a real need behind it. Then my question comes up: can we expect that in the big message that the Council of State is talking about, we will get a systematic and broad review of all that now exists, and will be found in the coming months, about knowledge of lost teaching time, presented so that the Storting will at least have it as a starting point? The left doesn't think of it as the ideal, but we think of it as perhaps the best achievable when it's "the power that flows". So that's this question I'm asking through the President of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1436	First of all, we're doing a lot of the things that were wanted here. We've raised 375 million. kr from the State side to introduce empowerment for teachers in 2008. We have warned that we are now working on going through the teacher's role and further education in the future and will provide a big message about it. And we've done some other things, for example. to increase the number of hours - something that the Left does not demand, because they are against it. So I answered the question here by referring to one thing that we've already seen, that's one that could call a national selection test when it comes to getting the number of hours that you're entitled to-- that's an oversight. We will come back to that and report from, from which I believe the representative is aware. I would also like to show that there is a need for research, and that we are working on a national strategy for education research. It is one of many important themes that we are forced to address.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1445	In its speech, the Council of State said that there were clear rules and standards in relation to behaviour. But in the reply to the representative, Gåsvatn, the Council of State said that there are rules of order that draw up the norms, as a reason that he will now do nothing. How does this relate?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1450	It is consistent in that way that we have an order of business today, which I believe the representative is aware of, which is being enforced around. So I said that at least there may be three different reasons why the teaching time in the school is not used well enough. One reason might be that despite the fact that we have that orderly regulation, there may not be established clear enough rules and standards of conduct throughout the school. I would like, among other things: demonstrate that one thing is to have a regulation, another thing is, of course, that one has that competence, that leadership, that system and that integration among parents and others about clear rules and norms around the schools. We have to have the code at the bottom, and then we have to have everything that actually makes it look like life, on top of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1455	The replication shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1461	After all, I am pleased with what has developed into a rather warm support for the proposals of the Right and the other opposition parties. It is therefore all the more incomprehensible why government parties cannot support the proposal to put in place a nationwide monitoring of the causes and extent of loss of education. Because we have to realize that there is a very big difference between what the representative Lena Jensen said at the beginning of his speech, namely that we know enough about this and really don't have to know so much more, and the Council of State Solhjell said in its first and subsequent contributions to the lines, namely that there is a need for more knowledge on this topic. If there is a need for more knowledge, as the opposition parties believe it is, monitoring and research should also be initiated, with the clear mandate that this is what it is to be researched on, not all possible other surrounding factors and everything else related to school, but precisely this theme. Because it can't be that the only information the decision-makers have, whether it's in county municipalities, municipalities or here on the Stortinget, is based on the representative Dørum called anecdotes, which is a precise description. Anecdotes, headlines in the media, reports and self-reports from students who are asked to log the time they have for teaching, cannot be the basis on which to make decisions. We make decisions when the budgets come every harvest, to expand the hours at school, as there has been a great deal of agreement on the Stortinget, that it is a right way to go. When we see at the same time that as much as 30 pst. Every hour disappears into things that have nothing to do with teaching, when we know that 2-5 weeks of the school year disappears into things that are not educational, because either the county councils are planning to spend less time on hours, or because you spend time on anything other than education, you also have to ask yourself if the priorities we do are doing on the right basis. That's why it's so important to get more knowledge about this. I can also mention that the case that I used as an example in my reply, namely the case from the red-green-throated Busherud, is mentioned in full over six pages in the previous issue of the magazine Education. Unfortunately, I don't think it's unique. The reports we have - not based on systematic research, but based on media surveys - indicate that this is happening both in municipalities and in county municipalities. It is serious that county councils with open eyes are planning for a large reduction in the use of hours, which means that the students do not receive the education they are entitled to. So they're breaking the rules with their eyes open, either to make money more efficient or to save money. It is a practice that is not acceptable and that we should know a lot more about and then be able to put in place the right measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1470	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2049]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1485	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of up to 5 lines after the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1492	The representative proposal addresses a topical and urgent subject. There is a great need for workers with real-time skills in the Norwegian community. In view of the fact that international tests have shown that Norwegian students have poorer mathematical skills than students in comparable countries, special emphasis has been placed on real science in recent years, both through the Knowledge Lift and the «Real science, of course» strategy. This is to increase both the interest in and the skills of the real subjects. Many secondary schools have made use of the action space within the Knowledge Commitment and are gradually offering varied and good training in real science. A number of examples of this have been presented both through the proposal of the representatives of the Right and at the Committee's examination of the matter. The Committee has noted a number of offers, including: at the technology line at Sotra secondary school, where business provides mentors for students who choose real and technological subjects. Similarly, students here also have the opportunity to start with similar subjects at university or higher education. Furthermore, the Committee has noted offers related to the technology environments of Kongsberg and Raufoss. There is also a line for technical/general subjects, known as TAF offers at Levanger secondary school and other schools in the country. At all, there is a great deal of activity in many high schools across the whole country. It is very gratifying that there is growing interest in the real world, because we need a great deal of expertise to solve many of the challenges we face, both in terms of climate and environmental issues, and not least in relation to medical challenges. The Committee stresses the importance of close cooperation with industry in the establishment of real and technological subjects at secondary school. The business community also expresses satisfaction at the fact that the real science strategy is now giving positive results in the search for the technological disciplines of our universities and colleges. Norwegian Industry is now expressing concern that there will not be enough study places for all those who have real-time vocational qualifications from higher education and who want to study technology. This means that we are in the process of succeeding in getting our young people interested in real science and technology. It is therefore important that we continue to stimulate real science, as we have seen that the Minister of Knowledge has contributed to this in the past. The Committee expresses concern that girls often opt out of the real subjects, and a number of measures have been put in place to ensure that girls are just going to choose real subjects in secondary school and to choose technological subjects for future occupations. The White Centres established in several regions and local variants thereof contribute positively in this context. We also focus on better counselling in high school for all students, which also offers new opportunities to make the opportunities of real-life education more visible to the girls. There is a considerable gender imbalance in these subjects today, both in terms of the number of students and the number of teachers. The Committee hopes that the various measures taken to recruit girls to the technology disciplines will produce results. We see that increasing attention and our own strategies help if we want to stimulate increased interest and skills in a field. As far as real subjects are concerned, this has been and is absolutely necessary, and the strategy must, as I have said, continue to continue in the future. The majority of the Committee believes that there is room within the current framework of the secondary school for continuing the provision of this type of education, showing all the establishments of offers now available throughout the country. The majority consider it essential that these offers be established in close cooperation with industry. This is in order to ensure good guidance and also to stimulate more employees in the business world to qualify for real-life and high-tech education. The Committee agrees on most of this issue, but the parties conclude somewhat differently on the basis of the challenges we face in the relevant subjects. The minority will present its proposal to set up its own technology schools to ensure real and technology competence in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1513	We have long been aware that we have had major challenges related to real science in the Norwegian education system. We have failed recruitment for studies in real-life subjects and professions that require real-time vocational competence. There is particular concern that this problem appears to be more serious in Norway than in most other countries. Norway, as a nation, is dependent on a high level of competence in real science if we are to continue to prosper in the international community and ensure our future prosperity development. In this context, a national strategy to give real-life professionals a boost has also been developed. The Strategy Plan is followed by Action Plans to translate strategy into targeted action. Action plan 2007/2008 places recruitment at the centre and underlines that high quality training at all stages is necessary to create interest and maintain motivation for work on a real-time basis. Djupedal State Council stated: “The most important thing in the strategy is that we get skilled teachers who can inspire and motivate students into real science.” I see that the government has said in this regard that they will evaluate economics to recruit teachers or students to take master's studies in real science and to recruit realists for the teaching profession. At the same time, the Government has listened to Norwegian industry, and they see the potential of getting good real-life teachers from engineers and other business candidates with a real-life background. These measures are good and good, but they do not address the main challenge of providing stable access to people with real-time skills both to industry and to the research and education sectors. Recent media attention has increased in relation to the challenges facing the country in terms of lack of real-life skills. Some groups of engineers are very much in demand, and we are already seeing trends that industry is experiencing a slowdown in growth as a result of a shortage of labour with this kind of competence. Real skills are also very important in some areas of public and private services and, of course, in relation to the education and research system. We see here the well-known market mechanisms, when demand is greater than supply. There's going to be a lot of competition to attract the same people. The challenge we face is to get more people to choose real-time vocational studies, while improving the quality of real-time education throughout the education cycle. From 2006 to 2007, we see a slight increase in the number of students choosing real-time studies at higher education institutions and universities. There are still strikingly few female applicants for such studies, and we see almost no growth in the number of male applicants, so the recruitment challenges are great. We see a clear link between basic school outcomes and acquired real-time vocational skills. The challenge is to take care of and further develop these talents in the further education cycle. The international comparative studies have shown that Norwegian students lag behind not only our Nordic neighbours but also in relation to the leading Asian countries. It is these countries Norway in the future to compete with in an increasingly globalised world. Developments are worrying, and the situation requires all good suggestions for improvement to be viewed with positiveness and an open mind. The proposal we are discussing here today is to facilitate a specialised training offer in secondary school. It is beyond doubt that we need this kind of competence, so it is sad that the government parties will not look at this proposal in a more positive way. We know that such education is equipment-intensive both at primary and secondary level. Tekna conducted a study some time ago that showed that half of Norwegian schools lack laboratory equipment necessary to meet several of the skills objectives of the Knowledge Lift. Therefore, it is important, in the view of the Progress Party, to involve different other actors in relation to this type of education. Cooperation between primary, secondary, tertiary, business and regional science centres needs to be facilitated and stimulated. A well-functioning advisory service is one that the Committee has previously highlighted as being particularly important in providing students with the opportunity to make reasonable and correct choices based on good advice and information. Equally important is to erase some of the boundaries between educational levels, as one can do through hospitation and professional cooperation. In June 2006, the then Minister of Knowledge, Mr Djupedal, presented the strategy paper entitled ‘A Common Lift for the Real Sciences’, which he stated in this context: ‘The challenge for all in the time to come is to jointly implement the strategy with sound and well-functioning measures that together create the real-life skills that Norway needs. [[...]] In the light of this opinion, it is regrettable and strange that the government parties do not go in to support the proposal we are now considering.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1547	I refer to the proposal presented in the document. Norway has a major challenge. We need more students and students to choose real science. While real science has lost ground as an attractive route of education, society’s need for workers with real skills is increasing. After a survey of its members, Abelia concluded that only in the last year would 10 000 new employees with real-time skills be needed, and that only in the knowledge-based companies. In addition, the need for employees with real-time skills in the public sector, in industry and in the petroleum sector comes. This contrasts sharply with the thousands of candidates who are trained annually in this field. In addition to training too few realists, we have the challenge at the professional level. The last three PISA surveys have shown that Norwegian students are partly far behind students in other countries, and the trend is in the wrong direction. PISA 2006, published at the end of last year, shows that Norwegian students for the first time score below the OECD average in real-life subjects. Norwegian students lie as much as two and a half years after regular Finnish students, measured by level. Real subjects are also one of the disciplines where the distinction between girls and boys is greatest in recruitment. Through the ROSE project, «The Relevance Of Science Education», run by Camilla Schreiner and Svein Sjøberg at the University of Oslo, it emerges that boys and girls have very different attitudes to real science. In order to increase the number of girls who choose real science, the way in which the subjects are presented needs to be changed, so that girls too will be interested in choosing the subjects. Some of Schreiner's and Sjöberg's main findings are that even professionally qualified students choose away real science and technology. This is especially true for girls. There is a need for a wide range of measures to strengthen the recruitment and level of real-life occupations. The proposal to set up high technology is one such measure. It is very important to stimulate the interest in and take care of the skills in real science of those students who are particularly interested in these subjects. These aren't always the students who do the best, but they're the ones who might have a huge enthusiasm for the real subjects. That interest must be safeguarded and stimulated. Norway has a long and good tradition of offering specialised secondary education in sport. One example is the handball line at Ullern High School. We believe that there should be similar offers in other key disciplines. Specialised secondary education through the establishment of technology-gymnas will be a complement to real-professional immersion within the ordinary secondary programme of study specialisation. Many county councils have made good efforts. They have invested in the real world by establishing technology and research lines and general technical subjects. In our opinion, county councils should also be able to offer purely specialised courses in higher education, i.e. several thematic schools. In such a model, the total number of hours spent in real science needs to be increased in order to strengthen the technological and real-time profile. Technology and research must be part of the programme. There must be a large room for professional immersion. That is precisely why the number of hours has to be increased in addition to that of other secondary education. Moreover, this type of technology-gymnas could be linked to existing academic environments in higher education. It will be a prerequisite that the country contributes to the operation of these schools, because they will be relatively costly both in terms of equipment and in terms of higher hours. Despite the fact that this is a more costly offer than usual, we believe that it is an important measure to safeguard the interest in real science. It is also an important measure to help Norway continue to assert itself in a globalised world, where technological innovations and a high level of technological competence will play an increasingly important role, including: ensuring our well-being for the future. It requires that we focus on both basic and higher education and research. A good real-life education at a higher level of education presupposes that basic education provides students with sufficient basic knowledge. As we all know, there's a close link in the education system. What we do for the six-year-olds is important for the drop-out in high school and for what kind of researchers we get at the other end of the education system. It is very important for the welfare of the future to recruit sufficient numbers to further drive Norwegian and international technological developments, including: in areas such as the environment, petroleum, health, infrastructure and marine subjects.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1573	The representative, Ms Soreide, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1576	There is no doubt that real-time investment is important in order to meet the business needs of highly skilled workers in the future. This I believe is the consensus in all parties. What you may not agree on to that extent is what strategies will best be able to achieve these objectives. The proposers point to the creation of own specialised technology schools as the solution. Let me immediately say that I do not believe that this is the way to go. The creation of own technology-gymnas outside today's framework can, on the contrary, shift focus and become a sleep cushion in raising real-life subjects in the Norwegian school. At all stages of our education system, there is a need both to restore the status of the real subjects and to strengthen the students' professional benefits in these subjects. There is a need for an overall effort from childhood to high school. The government's bet has begun to produce results. ‘Real science, of course!’ and the ‘Joint raising for the real subjects’ plan are important strategies. The promise of knowledge gives primary school room for action to think new. In addition, the dossier can refer to a number of real-life courses linked to higher education, such as: the environmental and technology offer in Buskerud. All these measures show that, within the current framework, there is scope for specialisation in the real subjects. I would also like to point to the National Center for Mathematics in Education, which has as its main task the management and coordination of the development of new and better working methods and learning strategies in mathematics training, strategies focusing on the learning work in classrooms and on new methods, which will give teachers a boost, and which will once again strengthen students' knowledge. Showing students the link between what may seem to be a heavy theory subject in school, and what the subjects provide with exciting job opportunities in research and development is particularly important. It is gratifying that the business community here has known its visit time, and that many places around the country have good local examples of the good interaction between business and high school, primarily but also between business and primary school. I want to draw out here And Islanda Rocket Shooter Field and NAROM. NAROM is a national school laboratory for space-related subjects, and the co-location with Andøya Rocket Shooting Field allows students, students and teachers from all over the country to actively use unique resources in the form of exciting space laboratories and instruments. In 2007, NAROM gave approx. 2 200 participants offer a highly motivating and exciting offer within themes such as atmosphere, climate and environment. There are, therefore, a number of measures in primary and secondary schools to increase both the competence and motivation of real-life subjects. It's just the sum of this diversity that will produce results. Setting up own technology schools outside today's framework is not the answer. The answer is a long-term, continuous bet on the real subjects, and here's the government's strategy the right way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1595	We agree that Norway has several major real science challenges, as confirmed by one of the latest PISA surveys from 2006. Here Norwegian students score for the first time below the average in OECD countries, and they are two and a half years behind mainstream Finnish students in the natural sciences. This is not an attempt at black paint, but real challenges that we as the top school authority must address. I see this proposal as a constructive input to show that it is possible to use different tools to address the challenges we face in the real world at school. The Bondevik II Government has drawn up the «Real science, of course» strategy plan, and not least the «Knowledge promise» reform. We do not yet know what results we will be able to see from the Knowledge promise, but we see that the strategy plan has begun to deliver results by reporting more high-level schools now reporting an increase in search for real-time deepening. However, it does not help with good search alone if not the knowledge you get is good enough. It is essential that basic education provides students who wish to continue their studies, the basic knowledge required. We have noticed that the proposers, as an argument for the creation of technology-gymnas, state: ‘Many suggest that real-time depression in high school does not provide a sufficient basis for success in further real-time studies.’ There's a description to which we can subscribe, but if the answer to this challenge was just to create technology gyms, we disagree. We believe that the most important answer is to look at how real-time school depression can improve, so that those who choose this can succeed even better with further real-time studies. There is therefore a need for a more comprehensive approach with a wide range of measures to strengthen the real skills. The way the Sotra high school technology line, as mentioned in the proposal, operates, shows how these types of lines can be a good single measure to increase real-time competence. Here we see concretely how schools can well connect with local businesses, to the joy and benefit of students and schools, and to communities and businesses. I believe that cooperation with universities and universities in the neighbourhood could also be important, among other things. to draw exchanges of expertise from a higher level. The possibility that students can start with subjects at college and university, for some people, will be challenging and interesting. Other examples in addition to Sotra - from Kongsberg, Levanger and Raufoss - show that this type of action is already possible under current legislation. We believe that these good examples should be even better achieved, and we believe that the ministry can also contribute to this. Against this background, we support the proposal to ask the Government to facilitate the establishment of technology-gymnas as a specialised secondary training offer in real science - as one of many measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1615	The spokesperson of the SV actually gave an excellent argument on why the government parties should vote in favour of the proposal. I fully agree that the landline we have on Andøya in connection with Andøya rocket field, not to mention ALOMAR, is approaching in practice a technology gymnastics -- so that the sum of what happens in a secondary school, and what happens to built-up infrastructure, is actually a way of recruiting. I've been there, and I'm excited, both for school, the rocket field, the place on the mountain called ALOMAR, and all of it. It's actually part of my experiences, not to mention my upbringing, my own experience. I went on a real line, but with an enhanced curriculum in chemistry -- that was an experiment. At that time, the real line was supplemented with important parts of the natural subject line's syllabus. So I went on a line that was different than normal, to say it like this. I believe that the rapporteurs - and that is why the Left also supports the proposal - should not have this as a unilateral measure, but it should be one of several measures. Let's stick to one of the best Mao quotes: let a hundred flowers bloom--he didn't mean it in practice, but we who sit here in the hall mean it. This, plus the examples that are in the committee setting, shows just how to do it. Another way to comment on this, with examples in other subjects, is to say that these are thematic schools, i.e. schools that have their own weight in specific areas. There is no doubt that when these schools also have a good connection with, for example, the environment. a well-conceived local environment becomes exciting. But it's clear that if you think straight -- I kept saying -- education director's thoughts at the top of your head, there won't be much space for these variations, even if the law makes room for that. I have often seen a circular from the Education Directorate that is so narrow that it simply takes an old-fashioned educational politician to give it some kind of normal interpretation beyond the formality. I believe that both the Council of State and others will see this initiative as an attempt not only to be guided by the formalism of everyday life, for the formalism combined with the parody of business-economic Norwegian in the circular on school constitutes a rather poor terrain-- I'll be allowed to say it so directly. And the left-hand side also thinks that thinking about other sides, as we've written in the committee setting, is necessary. It is absolutely necessary to look at the type of ballast a sheep through general teacher training. We have a position on that, and we're going to come back to that later. We are also fully convinced that it is necessary to provide systematic continuing training. In particular, we are concerned that it is necessary to do so in order to keep real-time teachers who are about to leave at the age limit, but who might think of a longer race if society gives them a handshake. Someone will call this a wise senior policy-- so is it. There are several features that need to be included, and many of these conditions will come back to us in future debates. We've been around them before, but we'll come back to them. I think that now that we're dealing with the real subjects in this way, it's also because of the general nature of the real subjects. I'm going to provide an anecdotic information, as it is called, in the sense that I can't see my own life as a scientific study, but as lived experience. I took reality in my own time, knowing that I would never study those subjects later in my life, but I would know enough to know what I didn't know. And it ended up with me having a master's degree in social work. It's an argument for generalisation. This is very much in line with what the representative ine Marie Eriksen Soreide mentioned, namely Camilla Schreiner and Svein Sjöberg's studies, where, for example, they are conducted. In today’s school there seems to be a lack of a kind of humane recruitment language to say to young girls that, for example, For the sake of climate change and yourself, your family and possible children, it is not so stupid that you have knowledge that enables us, where possible, to find technology solutions in terms of climate. It's not so stupid that we can build tunnels that don't rage in people's heads, it's not so stupid that we can make houses that stand. This humane description of so-called hard or heavy subjects will be absolutely necessary to create a recruitment. And then we end up with anecdotal information. Rector Lillian Bye at Social School in Trondheim looked at me and said, "You, Odd Einar, are going to be a lecturer." And I then asked the general question, Why? The lady gave me such a cash and direct answer that that was what I became. This was an intervention to introduce human argumentation, agitation, at school, so that girls with skills in real science actually also want to pursue this further. Norway needs it, and we'll have a good time getting it. The left is voting with great pleasure for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1638	I choose to interpret the representative of Dørum in the best sense, that he does not think that we today have an inhuman recruitment practice in the Norwegian school for real science, but that we can further strengthen and nuance the humane recruitment practices we have. Real science is going to play an enormous role in Norwegian society and internationally for decades to come, and we have great needs in real-life recruitment. Let me give you two slightly different foundations for that. Firstly, many of the biggest challenges we face in the world over the years to come will only be solved if we have adequate skills based on real science. The climate challenge is the most open one. Here we are facing a challenge where we are going to stimulate a gigantic technological leap in Norway, in other parts of the Western world and in the Third World - one of the greatest challenges in our century. But also other things: Challenges related to getting enough water and good water supply around the world actually require considerable real-life competence. Then we have a challenge for ourselves in Norway, because we know one thing for sure: in Norway we're going to live on the knowledge of our hands and in our heads for years to come. It's going to be the basis of our well-being. We're not going to be able to compete with other countries on cheap labour. We have to compete for skills, and a significant part of the skills will be real-time. Of course, we will also have other major skills needs. This is the basis. This means that we need a systematic effort from the elementary school level, where we need to have an even greater interest in and perhaps a better practical pedagogical link to the real subject. And then we have a further level, where we have to get more people to pick real science and deepen it. Even if we have seen some progress there, we need to get more applicants towards higher education when it comes to real science. And of course, we have a big recruitment challenge when it comes to teachers. There are many with a high level of competence in continuing education, a good part of the youth school, but too many in childhood today do not have real-life competence in addition to teacher education. And that's a big challenge. Then I would like to comment on the concrete proposal for the establishment of technology gyms. A more specialised provision in continuing training can make a good contribution to raising the quality of real-time education and catching up and stimulating the interest of many in real life. Created correctly, there may also be a way to differentiate the offer, so that both boys and girls know that their values and interests are captured. It would be possible for both sexes to realize a future of competence in real science. In order to achieve this, it is important that the schools and municipalities benefit from the space for action in the Knowledge Lift. By exploiting the current higher education and training institutions and businesses in the technological profession, the equipment situation can also be remedied by far. It will be a good educational measure. Reference is made to the need for the Ministry to provide regulations on a specialised advanced provision in the field of real science and technology involving several hours, more and/or other subjects and the organisation of education other than that resulting from an ordinary course of training. I mean, there's no need to change the regulations. The establishment of technology gymnasiums as a specialised further supply in real science can now take place within the current framework and in cooperation with local businesses and the technology environment at higher education institutions. There are several advanced schools that have exploited the supply in a creative and positive way by, among other things. providing real-time good training. Such measures should be implemented within the current framework. Then, in the long term, an evaluation of experience should be carried out to identify the functioning of these schemes and whether there is a need for further action. Together, the school and the county council have to assess what they can do within today's structure in continuing training for the benefit of students who want to learn more real science. As the proposers point out, Sotra's ongoing schooling has created an offer within today's required framework. The students on the technology line at Sotra's secondary school have their own mentor from the business community and have regular business practices. It is also possible for students to start in higher education, and the school can attract exchangers from higher education. In Kongsberg, the planning and distribution of an environmental and technology supply has been started in further training in Buskerud. It is a premise that the supply is added to Kongsberg, initially to be associated with the technology environment that already exists, and that the supply is then linked to business. Other offers have also been mentioned here. Today's framework gives a very high degree of freedom of action to address the very important challenge we have of strengthening real-time vocational competence for years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1672	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1675	We see that the increased research in real science may be negative for other areas, because it turns out that there is a sort of commuting effect for the same groups of students in language education. Then my question is: how will the Council of State be able to maintain the investment in real science without real science becoming the loser in relation to e.g. language?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1682	That's a good and important question. From the perspective of the Norwegian business community and with regard to how we can contribute to solving major global challenges, both real science and significant language skills are important, for example. is the significant multilingualism of Norway a great strength. In particular, we have seen a very negative trend when it comes to searching for languages. As the representative is probably aware, we have implemented an action immediately - simply to merge the programme areas of language and social sciences. We will also go through further possible measures in this area in the language message that will be presented to the Stortinget now in our future. We are forced to continue our work so that we can attract more people both towards real science and against language, so that we can lay the foundations for more people in higher education and for the future recruitment of teachers - and competence in the school - in both fields.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1689	In the course of the debate, there has been a lot of good argument from the representatives of the government parties who should really be able to support the proposal of the Right and the other opposition parties. As I said, this is one of several proposals and an attempt to think creatively in order to increase the recruitment of real-life professionals while at the same time ensuring that the quality of real-life education is strengthened. Among other things, it is important in the fields I mentioned in my post, but also in relation to teaching skills - for those who will become teachers in the future. In the case of specialised sports offerings, we have a long tradition and are encouraged in Norway. At the same time, they, for example, are encouraged. have launched research and technology lines. Sotra secondary is one example, TAF at Levanger secondary is another. My question, then, is, why can't you encourage technology gymnastics in the same way as pure, specialized races? The reason why you need that encouragement is that it costs extra money that the government has to contribute. There are extra hours, extra equipment -- so it's a little bit more than just being creative in the county council that's required to create these offers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1698	In this debate, from the opposition, there are many very good arguments for the particular effort that the Government is now making, and on which there is a great deal of excitement, and, on the other hand, many good examples of why before the existing frameworks can just implement the intentions that the representative Eriksen Soreide has with his proposal. I now understand from the question that deep down it boils down to more money. The county authorities are responsible for the provision of further training, and they have considerable scope for action, including financial, to add extra funds. Of course, in all future budgets we will also consider whether there should be special provision and whether one should use financial resources on it. But the space for action exists, the large national investment in real science exists, and there is room, including economic space, for county councils to spend money on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1705	Time and again, we are now witnessing a rather interesting public education exercise. In school after school, we have the following observation: Government parties are a little cautious and a little laid back, government councils are fierce and almost enthusiastic. From the representative of Dørum and the left, we think this is exciting. It's almost a breakthrough in the sense that we're so close to each other in rhetoric that you could say, think about it, would it-- but do it? Not exactly. Now I'm not going to repeat questions raised by others. I'm actually going to talk about what we need to get to a good, public common school -- that's good enough teachers. Is the Council of State now on the verge that we can actually get the systematic, competent further training that will keep the real-time teachers who are about to leave school but who still have a lot of fire and enthusiasm, and who will probably be there if they get a handshake? Is the government now prepared to do that, so that in later rounds we can actually get a break for such a way of thinking? This is absolutely vital in order to achieve the good real science that we agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1712	Today's debates have shown that the proposals that the opposition is thinking about and thinking about are creative, they are implemented by the Government. That was the case in the previous debate, where one wanted a mapping: an oversight is all alert in that field and will be presented. So this is the same thing as this right over here. The representative Dørum, in his article, just gave a good example - as was shown from the pulpit - that one implements what is being asked for today. The representative Dørum himself said that just that happens. The room exists, this will be implemented within the current framework. I think the debate sums it up a good way, I think it's a lot of good intentions. Everyone from the government party who has taken the word, and I myself, just stresses that we have the starting point today. Then we both need the county to use the action space and a number of other measures, such as: enhance the competence of teachers in real-time education in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1719	Regional centres of excellence are central to attracting interest in real and technology subjects. We believe that these centres can play an important role in the interaction between primary, secondary, higher education and not least as a link to business. In the context of the budgetary procedure, a unanimous Kuf Committee presented the Science Center Østfold, which is now seeking regional science centre status. The question is whether the Council of State sees the importance of developing more regional knowledge centres than the seven we already have. If so, will the Council of State contribute to the introduction of fresh funds so that the approval of new regional centres does not go beyond the limits of the others? In fact, real-time betting costs money.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1726	I want to take the chance of boasting about regional science. I think they do an important job, they have a lot of good deals and they play a role in the real-time job. I know that there are applications with a desire to develop more, and I am aware of the situation in Eastfold. Of course, we will decide on this. I can't announce anything new here, but I'm very positive to regional science centres and will also consider the need for more in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1733	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2050]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1750	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines following the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Bjørg Tørresdal, on behalf of the rapporteur, Mr Dagrun Eriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1761	In this matter, the Committee has divided itself into a majority consisting of the governmental parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, and a minority consisting of the Advance Party and the Right. The majority is in favour of attaching the proposal to the protocol. Compulsory secondary education has long traditions in Norwegian schools. Lateral education is an important part of the school’s dissemination of the national cultural heritage, and knowledge and use of both forms of writing enrich our Norwegian language. The Christian People's Party believes the side goal has a natural place both in primary and secondary schools. Changes in the law that lead to optional secondary school education will involve a significant change in Norwegian language policy. We need mechanisms to protect minority interests - not least in areas related to linguistic and cultural diversity. Language and language development apply to all parts of society. It's about democracy and awareness of the value of language for culture and identity. At a time when neo-normous is under pressure, one should not open up to what is actually a liberalisation of Norwegian language policy. I believe that politicians have to be dry to rule in order that we still have a linguistic diversity in Norway. Today, for a number of jobs, it is necessary to be able to master both types of goals, including: within the school system and in the municipalities and the state administration. The proposal refers to the Norwegian Language Council which, in its opinion, referred to the following: ‘State institutions have difficulty in complying with target laws, and many of them justify this by the fact that the newcomer’s skills are too poor.’ In this context, we believe that there is a need to look at whether or not cross-target training, and especially new Norwegian, should be strengthened. The Language Law states that book measures and new Norwegian are equivalent language forms and shall be equivalent in all public bodies. Formally, nine Norse and Bokmål are similar language forms, but in reality, nine Norse people are more difficult to understand. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that the public has a special responsibility to facilitate the development of new Norse people in a good way. Finally, I would like to ask the Council of State to pay particular attention to the majority of comments in the vote, where the majority asks the Government to ensure that the objectives of language policy on the equalisation of our two objectives are pursued in the education system, and I ask him to confirm that this will be followed up. With this, I would like to propose the majority in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1781	The representative, Bjørg Tørresdal, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1784	In 2003, a proposal from the Progress Party was put forward which is identical to the one we are considering today. So here it's reconnaissance -- or, here it's progress. In this way, we maintain a tradition -- a discussion about a subject that has a long tradition. It would surprise me a lot if not also the argument today is quite similar to the argument that was led for approx. five years ago. I'm not going to break any tradition today. I will put forward many of the same arguments as our representatives made in the previous debate, and will therefore not support the proposal - precisely to continue the tradition of the side-target policy. It is clear from the case-law that the background to the proposal is that the results in cross-measures, and especially in the case of new Norwegians, are claimed to be too poor. Lateral education is seen as useless, and the two writing languages are said to be the same. If it's implicit in the proposal that side measures somehow go beyond the training of the main goal, I ask questions about it, simply because I haven't seen anything that can substantiate this. Our starting point is pretty simple. We want to take these challenges seriously in terms of results that are too poor and the experience of the subject as useless. We're taking the arguments with us. So we disagree that the solution is to make the teaching and exam optional. We want the students to learn as much as possible at school. Of course, we want the results in the basic subjects to improve. That's why we've had the goal of expanding our hours at school to get just better. We have adopted several hours for the current year, and we are there according to the objectives of the Soria Moria Declaration. And in the case of declarations, it said in the Sem statement: ‘The Swedish Cooperative Government will protect and maintain in our two Norwegian writing languages, and retain Norwegian writing culture as a support in our cultural life.’ The Language Council, which is also quoted by the proposers, has said that they want to strengthen the training in this part of the Norwegian subject - i.e. the secondary education - in order to improve the writing skills and attitudes of the subject. In connection with this, it will be, among other things. proposed to initiate attempts at systematic motivational work and alternative forms of teaching related to the written side objective. We need more proposals like this in order to improve the attitudes of new Norse people. We need examples of professional, sound teaching practices that engage students, because there is a great need for innovation in the teaching of new Norse as a side goal. I think it's possible to make the newnorm education exciting, varied and instructive for the students. Now there will be projects like this, such as: shall inspire Norwegian teachers to improve the level of secondary education of their pupils. Our goal may be very ambitious, but equally very serious, when we want the students to master the book goals and the new ones as well as the exams. When students have such a starting point, they have a real choice in writing language. It is particularly important that the teaching material in the new Norwegian language, such as: books, become available at the same time as the other books. We have far too much and too little experience in the fact that novel books come out too late for the students. Here the patience of the students has lasted long enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1808	First, a little visit to the representative Opheim, who pointed out that similar proposals were made some years ago, and wondered if it was progressing. Then I might answer the representative that I had hoped that the Workers' Party had got the time they needed to change their position. I record that this is not the case, so we get to give them even a little more time. Except for 20 pst. by Norwegian young people, initial training as a functional illiteracy is out of the question. It means that they read so poorly that they have difficulty working in society. Several national and international studies show that the literacy skills of Norwegian students are far worse than those of comparable countries. This is serious! The Progress Party believes that it is important to focus on how to address these challenges. They cannot be solved by a single operation alone, but probably through several measures. However, one premise to address these challenges is that one can agree on the objective. The aim must be for all those leaving the initial training to be able to read and write. This objective must not be fooled by a number of other objectives, which in a different way characterise school education. It is therefore appropriate to be concerned that the number of committees, all except the Advance Party and the Right, believes that Norwegian language policy and language policy objectives should go ahead of the goal that all students should be able to read and write! Not only do they want it to go ahead, but they ask the Government to step up language policy requirements and strengthen the focus on secondary education in school. It is challenging when politicians from all political parties say they are willing to go far to ensure that the students achieve basic skills. However, when measures are implemented, the interest disappears and is replaced by a desire to give priority to page objectives for reading and writing training in the main objective. It is pointless and helps to reinforce problems in Norwegian school. It is clear that students’ skills in reading and writing are impaired due to the requirement for lateral target training. It is equally clear that, especially in terms of language, there is a weakening of the student’s attitude toward nynorrhic in the areas where book goals are the main goal, being influenced by coercion and frustration. The Progress Party believes that a rather should focus on the fantastic aspects of new Norse literature and poetry through positive instruments, not coercion, which everyone, except the Advance Party and the Right, calls for. I think it is highly relevant to draw up the quotation from Professor Finn-Erik Vinje in this debate too, although it is in the proposal. He says about the crosshairs: «It has soon existed for 100 years and has played its role. There is almost no natural difficulty in expressing one's thoughts, moods and opinions in two variants of Norwegian writing languages, which are in addition to confusion." It is therefore this natural disparity that the Progress Party wants to live up to this proposal. We want to strengthen the training in reading and writing the main goal, focus on Norwegian-language cultural heritage in a way other than by forcing it over the heads of students who are already perhaps struggling to acquire knowledge of basic skills. Demotion must be replaced by motivation, and it is very worrying that everyone, with the exception of the Advancement Party and the Right, is stuck in prehistoric language war and refuses to listen, learn and focus on goals. Those who fear that the new Norse will resign at a rapid death if the students at school are to focus on one of two writing languages are likely to be thoroughly wrong. The new witch has put an indelible mark on this country -- at good and bad -- and its tracks will never disappear. I fear, however, that the reputation of the new witch can be the loser through a political unrealistic demand that all students love it and honor it. That'll be trouble, not learning. I take this up in the vote on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1832	The representative Åse M. Schmidt has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1835	Language questions arouse emotions - sometimes strong emotions. It's identity related to target form. Language is about culture, cultural diversity and respect for each other’s language identity. Both of our official languages have strong characteristics and are the bearers of rich cultural traditions. Both languages are well represented in our literature. It is of great importance that all residents of Norway have the opportunity to participate in the experiences of our extensive national literature heritage. Therefore, it is important that students across the country get a good knowledge of both target forms. In an increasingly globalized reality, it is important that we are constantly conscious of the history and peculiarity of the Norwegian language. An introduction of optional written lateral target training is, as a matter of fact, not synonymous with an exemption from training in the lateral target. For the right, it is important to say that the side dimension in this context is understood as both book measures and new Norwegian. Such freedom of choice must, in the opinion of the Right, be combined with enhanced training in Norwegian language history and literature in what is the student's secondary objective, while at the same time freeing up better time for training in the main objective. Good linguistic skills are essential for an active participation in society. The right has long worked to strengthen basic subjects throughout basic training. It's not good for our common cultural heritage that about 20 pst. by the pupils leaving primary school without basic reading and writing skills. Language professor Finn-Erik Vinje has asked us to think about the subject. He believes that there is something fundamentally wrong with the written double training we have today, and says: ‘If the language skills in Norwegian must be strengthened in writing - and they must - it is a condition that the main objectives of the students should be given greater weight.’ In 1986 the then Minister of Education of the Workers' Party, Kirsti Kolle Grondahl, summarized his experiences: ‘Even though I have come to the conclusion that if the methodology, subject matter and motivation for side objectives are not changed very much, it should be considered to omit the requirement for written side objectives in primary school.’ What has happened since then? - Nothing but scattered trial schemes, which have produced some good results. In Oslo, a three-year project has recently been carried out, in which the written secondary education was made optional for a group of students. NIFU STEP has evaluated the experiment, and they conclude that the students who have participated in the experiment have improved their written skills in the main objective. The experiment also shows that the test students have a more positive attitude towards new Norse, which is the cross-target in this case. But as the report underlines, creating lasting changes in attitudes will take time. In order to strengthen the written skills in the Norwegian field, the Right believes that students need more time to work on the main objective. It has been said that you don't get any better in math by cutting out French, but you definitely get better in French by writing more French. The test from Oslo shows that this can be the same with the target form you're using. I am convinced that written page targets are part of the cause of the considerable reluctance to neo-Norwegian, which in turn leads to a linguistic arrogance that makes students in parts of the country want to have the nostrils gone. I think with such a practice you get exactly the opposite of what you really think you're achieving. Very many students have exemptions from training in side measures. For example, in basic training in Oslo, there are 37 psts. minority-speaking students, i.e. more than every third student who is exempted from education. The future of the news depends on the fact that it's a viable main goal, not that it's a side goal for everyone. On the right, it does not seem to be a problem to receive a letter written in a bookstore in a public office, and then you get an answer in a new or vice versa. It is likely that there are as many rules for the use of languages in general government as can be a threat to new Norwegian, and that allow many to switch to book targets. In conclusion, the right will stress that in the future, the linguistic policy battle will not, in any case, be between book goals and new Norwegian, but between Norwegian and a relatively massive English-speaking influence. It is this challenge that we should focus on. When we know that every fourth grade in Norway reads so poorly that they are below the OECD level of concern and that over 20 pst. by the students leaving the compulsory ten-year primary school without basic literacy skills, the time is overdue to concentrate time and energy on improving everyone's main goal. That is why we want the written part of the page measure and the exam to be made optional.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1865	Getting knowledge of our two parallel Norwegian languages, new Norwegian and book goals, is generalisation. The language is part of our cultural heritage. The language is root, and it's important for our identity. Making written page goals optional may seem like a harmless idea, but it will eventually make us poorer on knowledge and on understanding the Norwegian language as a whole. In the nomination, the proposers refer to an attempt with optional written page targets carried out in nine secondary schools in Oslo in 2004. In fact, they build a large part of their argument as to why they want to voluntarily write page goals around this experiment. The evaluation report from NIFU STEP is interesting reading. It states that the experiment initiative did not come from the schools or education authorities but was the result of a long-standing political process. It should also be emphasised that the research communities of universities and colleges in Norway regard the experiment as politically justified and not sufficiently justified on a professional or pedagogical basis. Therefore, the environment will not be involved in this experiment. The report is otherwise easily available on the network and concludes with the following: ‘The test had no effect on the student’s reading skills.’The test had no effect on the pupils’ oral ability.’ ‘The test had little to say about the pupils’ attitude to the Norwegian subject.’ In this respect, it should be noted that NIFU STEP considers that there is reason to point to the means used in the experiment, not only to the exemption from written training in the lateral objective. The active substances include: passed in author visits and reading specially selected literature, which has undoubtedly made teaching more interesting for students. It's positive. It has also helped students to gain a greater cultural understanding of new Norwegian, and it is also positive. But my question is, could this effect be achieved even without exempting the students from the written part of the page goal? I mean, yes. The way the students are motivated, and the way in which the teaching is organised, is alpha and omega for how the students should perceive the subject. Furthermore, the experiment showed a slight improvement in the written skills of the students in the main objective, but once again it has to be borne in mind that the tools of the experiment, and in particular the process-oriented writing training, with a directory as an assessment form, can have a distinct positive impact on the character of the main written objective - in any case. After reading the evaluation report from NIFU STEP, I cannot see that the report provides the answers that the right-hand side wants to make written page targets optional. Their argument that students’ performance in the main goal will improve is of little consequence in fact. On the other hand, it is amazing, and not so little outrageous, to see how the right-hand side - which likes to present itself as spokespersons for knowledge in school - not only contributes, but takes the initiative for a proposal that is essentially about weakening the level of knowledge in the Norwegian school. The representatives of the Party argue in their comments that: ‘These members point out that Norwegian elephants have a low level of professional literacy in reading and think that there may be a link between the requirement for education and examination in two almost identical written languages that are part of the reason.’ So the answer to the lack of knowledge is to lower the knowledge requirements, rather than to work for everyone to learn more. I'm afraid they're getting to the right on the load. But it doesn't change the alarming fact that the right-hand side's answer to bad results is to lower the objective. I have to say that the only example I know where you get closer to the goal by lowering the list is when you dance limbo. I had hoped that the Right was too good to throw the school into a limbo. It is not by making written page goals optional that we increase the literacy skills of our students, it is through early efforts. I am very pleased that the Minister of Knowledge has announced an intensification, a commitment to systematic literacy training in the first four years of school and a commitment to language stimulation in kindergarten. That's what will produce results, and it's medicine to improve Norwegian school knowledge. Let's get out of the siding and establish that teaching in parallel is an important part of the school's dissemination of the Norwegian cultural heritage. Knowledge of, and use of, both forms of writing is a gain for the Norwegian language. If I'm going to allow myself to say that, it adds student knowledge, and knowledge is the easiest thing to carry on in life.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1909	Just like the previous speaker, we in the Left have had a colloquial group on the entire report from the NIFU STEP and not just parts of it. At a meeting I was at with Oslo Left, our conclusion was that we did not think the report provided any convincing argument to go further with what is called an attempt. As a case-by-case information from the Parliamentary Chair, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Left in Oslo City Council will vote against the continuation of this attempt. So to the very thing here today. I'm not going to throw myself back into the explosion of the government of Wollert Konow and Bratlie's approach as prime minister in Norway until Gunnar Knudsen took over, I'm going to stay where we are now. My, and Left's, reasoning are the following: My general knowledge is that a linguistic diversity that is good, both written and oral, is itself a strength to ensure the survival of a common language. It's the way in this world that it disappears language around us at a terrible pace, and all languages are under pressure. Languages which have a broader base in the form of dialects, but also in writing, will stand if this is a recognised advantage, and if this is something that you want to take care of. As it is clear from my way of expressing myself, I am a book destination user, but through my book destination life, I am indebted to the value of the Norwegian language struggle. I am very aware that in its time there was a conflict between Ivar Aasen and Knud Knudsen - Knud Knudsen is called the father of the book. One thought that you would create a writing language according to the normals that were later moderated and developed. The other thought that you would make a writing language of the spoken daily speech to get away from it all. It was a great joy last harvest to be able, together with Oslo Cathedral School and then rapporteur Svenn Kristiansen, to honor Knud Knudsen's memorial to Our Savior's tomb. I'm saying it that way because there are different lines in the Norwegian language conflict. I think the lines can be enriching if they're used this way. That is why I agree with the previous speakers who have said that it is a real challenge that both pedagogics and forms of work can be developed in relation to the language forms we have. In Oslo they had a variant in their time, before we were in the vicinity of this experiment, which was called the Fagerborg model. So you took one written exam before the other, so that you could concentrate on and deepen in the written part. There are different variants of that. Those variants are not intended to remove the written part, but to ensure that it is incorporated, in a different way, in a whole. With the dividing lines and the language law we have nationally, it's logical and natural for the Left to cooperate with the majority in this matter. I'm not going to make it polemics against anyone, because I think there's a certain factual difference, at least a difference in style, between the argument of the Right Party and the Advance Party in the matter. Nor do I believe that this debate will necessarily be better by sharpening it for its own sake, even though sometimes I am contentious and polemic by myself. But in this case, I'm going to take it a little bit calmer, and say that the majority is expressing, as stated in the committee position, the left behind. We will vote in favour of the majority vote. I will from this pulpit join the previous speaker who has said that the Council of State should look at the pedagogical challenges he has, because we will never be able to win anyone if we can't develop the pedagogical better, that's quite obvious. It's also so that quality in this area is something we need. This speaker sees no contradiction between the fact that on behalf of the Left I am for two mandatory foreign languages in high school, and the fact that I am to take full advantage of the linguistic base we have. Thus, the Left is in a two-front war: we are against the government parties in terms of the view of having two mandatory foreign languages in high school, and then we disagree with the Right Party and the Advance Party in terms of the view of the new position of the Norwegian general school. But it's a center position, so it really fits us.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1924	The challenges of reading are big, and they are almost familiar. We are therefore forced to take seriously both the results we have now received and the training in reading and writing for years to come. We're increasing the number of hours in Norwegian, we're doing a significant lifting of competences, and more action will come. This will be mentioned in a language message and in several great news messages coming. Then to the representative proposal on cross-compliance. The Soria Moria Declaration states: ‘The culture of writing is the cornerstone of Norwegian social and cultural life. The government will point to the valuable diversity of having two Norwegian font cultures. Nynorsk and Bokmål are formally assimilated, but in reality, new Norwegian still has more difficult terms. It is therefore of particular importance to ensure good development opportunities for newnorms.» The current government is building its policy on the principle of which it has our broad political agreement. I see the proposal as covering both the basic and further training. In connection with the Knowledge Lift, changes were made to the examination schemes, which we will come back to later. When it comes to training in written language, I think that as long as we have two equal written target forms in Norwegian, it has to be reflected in the training. I do not want to go in to amputate the Norwegian training by removing the training in the one written target form in the school. It is by reading and writing both forms of education that students develop a comprehensive language competence in Norwegian, which they also benefit from when learning other languages. It would appear that such comprehensive training as Norwegian elephants meet creates a linguistic understanding that makes it easier to throw away with new languages. In this context, I would like to refer to a group of experts in the Council of Europe who have looked at the language situation in Norway. They point out that Norway has a lot of great advantages: we have two written languages that everyone learns, we have a lot of minority language doctors who also speak and write well Norwegian, many have very good English skills - we start early on - and we have a lot of people who know other foreign languages. These are great advantages that we should exploit, cheer and highlight rather than talk down. Then, one of the experiences from the trials with optional side goals in the advanced school in Oslo is an argument for removing both the training in written side goals and exams. Others have addressed these problems, so I just want to say that removing training in written Norwegian page targets in Norwegian school is a profound decision with great consequences. I think it would be completely irresponsible just to rely on a limited attempt at some schools in Oslo. So I think we have some challenges in this debate. In most areas, there is at least reasonable consensus that increasing knowledge in a field provides a better basis for the behavior and values of that field. But the Right Party and the Progress Party have found a special variant right here, that less knowledge of written page targets should give better values and positions in this area. I have to say that I have good right-wing argument that in this particular area there is going to be a different relationship between knowledge and behavior than what we're basically some that it's in every other field. On the other hand, I might think that there are still some things that might trouble this and play a role here, for example. I notice that the representative Eriksen Søreide says that new Norse will be the goal of the side for everyone. No, in fact, neuralism is not the goal of all, e.g. I've got a nine-year-old as my main goal. I have greatly enjoyed the mandatory training in written books, which has helped me to view the book as a beautiful writing language that has produced very good literature, and which I must say is a language that I have been happy in and that has also had great practical benefit in my life alongside my main goal, new Norwegian. I think the same is true of those who have book goals as their main goal and new Norwegian as their side goals. And then I also notice that the representative Schmidt says that neo-Norwegian has seen the mark on the country ‘in good and bad’. I would like to know: how has it 'bad' seen its mark in the country? I believe that both book goals and new Norwegian «in good» have been seen in the country, and that in the combination of the two writing languages we have found a policy that has contributed to much of the positive we can today say about Norwegian languages. Then we have major challenges in both the main objectives of Norwegian training. I agree with Mr Dørum, who is drawing it up. That's what we're going to do in the future, and we're going to do in our future. a flash message about language.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1949	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1952	I am pleased that the Council of State uses the terms ‘nynorphic’ and ‘bokmal’ and does not do as its predecessor did, which spoke of ‘Norwegian’ and ‘nynorphic’. One of the reasons why we have promoted this proposal is that the vocabulary in new Norwegian is now so similar to bookkeeping that it is soon just the design that separates the two objectives. But I have a question for the Council of State related to what the representative Opheim said. He said that it was a goal for the government parties that everyone should master book goals and neurally as well as exams. Then my question is, what about those who have Sami as their main goal, or as side goals, and what about all those minority-speaking people who are exempted from cross-target training in order to learn their mother tongues - are they forgotten in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1959	No, precisely in this context, we discuss main goals and side goals, which are then new and book goals for most people. But it is absolutely right that those who speak femininely and samishly should not be forgotten in this image, nor should the many minority-speaking people who have exceptions. This is why it is a big challenge to find a system that suits everyone. But for the vast majority, we have a system of written training, and we have exams, both in bookbooks and in new Norwegian. It works well, and provides a good basis for good knowledge and language training in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1966	I agree with all those who both here in the Chamber and otherwise say that it is important to maintain and develop two target forms in Norway. For all of us who are happy in the newnorms as side measures - I also have new Norms as side measures - we see that the newnorms are under a very strong pressure from many sides. In contrast to the government parties, I would like to see how we can strengthen the new Norse as a side measure, while at the same time being able to strengthen the main goal of the students where there is bookkeeping. Similarly, we want to strengthen new Norse as the main goal where it is, and book goals as the side goal where it is. Then it's a little wonder to me that the government parties here in the hall can dismiss as strongly as they do, the research we actually have in the field. The NIFU STEP report states that written skills in the main objective have significantly improved. That means that it's more than that you can see it that far. So it's significant, and it's significant. Then I don't understand how to just dismiss that kind of research, instead of maybe going into it and looking at what you can do to be able to strengthen both the main goal and the side goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1975	I've been looking into that particular research and looking closer to her. There's some interesting findings. It is also true that there is a main picture that many of the measurements that you should have researched have not been achieved, and that there are other things than the exemption that have had a bearing on the results. But first of all I think that in this context it is too narrow a basis for such a big decision. Then I agree that we need to go further in strengthening Norwegian training in general in Norway, and that we have special challenges in strengthening training both in the main objective of newnorphic and in the parallel goal of newnorphic, because newnorphic is the most pressing of the two writing languages. But what I don't understand is why less knowledge in written parallels, in this case new Norwegian, after the Right's opinion would lead to more positive postures, when in almost no other field is like that. I miss an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e1989	No more words have been asked for a line. No more people have asked for the floor in case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 2050]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e2006	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 2050]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e2022	One of the most serious lifting breaches we witnessed in the last election campaign, we had in the field of industrial power, where Norwegian powerful industry was promised by the then opposition parties, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV, that if these only won the election, Norwegian process industry, and Norwegian industrial communities in particular, could see the future safer. From an industrial site to an industrial site, the red-green parties sank with votes on the promise to establish a so-called industrial power regime that would give cheap power to the corner stone company in the community. A new socialist government will provide electricity to industry at below market prices. A two-price system in force with a special price for industry and a market price for ordinary households is possible to establish in Norway with the approval of the European Supervisory Authorities ESA and the EEA, said former opposition leader Jens Stoltenberg in August 2005. Today's oil and energy minister Åslaug Haga wasn't much tighter. On behalf of her own party, she called for a new industrial power regime. On the question of this, cheaper power to the powerful industry than to consumers most, was the answer: Yes, exactly! This does not end the story, because in the run-up to this, of course, the then positioning parties, the then position, were described as powerless and paralysed, and overruled by EU competition law. This was so strongly emphasized that the opposition parties at that time claimed that Stortinget had to intervene here. That could have happened, but what became the situation was that we got a government shift. Two and a half years after the government change, we were able to see in many ways the result of what we so strongly warned against, namely, diverting Norwegian industry from Norwegian industrial workers, as we did. I think the current government describes this quite clearly in the context of the revised national budget for 2007, which states: «The Government recognises that it is very difficult today to introduce specific schemes under the EEA Agreement which give the power-intensive industry significant benefits.» Then the natural question must be, when we see how today's government parties behaved in the opposition in front of the 2005 big shot: didn't they know better? Well, unfortunately, they knew better. It can be justified relatively easily. Both the Bondevik I Government and the previous Stoltenberg Government sent propositions to the Stortinget where they clearly conclude and advise the Stortinget that within the EEA Agreement it is not possible to offer power to the industry below market prices. And it was on the basis of this recognition that the Stoltenberg I government in June 2000 promoted a collapse proposition and allowed Stortinget to phase out the time with government-determined power prices. Then we have ended up in the situation that it has been possible to imagine Norwegian industry and Norwegian industrial communities that instead of entering into new commercial power contracts after the government change, they would just wait for the new red-green government to deliver in this area. And the Norwegian industry has indeed waited. We're now in the government year no. Three out of four, and you're still waiting for results. No one has any reason to be particularly surprised that it is not possible to deliver more in this area than what has been delivered - nor is it my criticism that we are not doing enough to the competition authorities of Europe. In fact, the political manoeuvre that took place has contributed to the loss of Norwegian industry. So those who were going to be the winner, those who last celebrated the election winner, are the ones who now appear to be the loser in many ways, because industrial contracts in Norway are no longer being concluded. Norwegian industry has come into a situation where they can lean back and wait and see, because they were given election guarantees that Jens and Åslau will fix the situation. I recall that during the previous government, with clear information on the complexity of EU competition law, industrial power agreements were concluded at a level similar to around 15 TWh, i.e. close to the maximum level of the so-called regulatory power contracts. It took place in the last period of government, because the Norwegian industry had a policy of dealing with realism, which did not go into hollow election vows that unfortunately have subsequently proved impossible to implement. Why are commercial industrial power agreements not being concluded today? I expect an answer to that question today. I record the conclusion of commercial agreements outside the country's borders. I see that the state's own large, important instrument, which is more or less given the monopoly situation at home, operates heavily on the road - read: abroad - and I record that you are able to enter into commercial agreements abroad, including Sweden, while at home we are probably put in a situation where you have been told to wait just to know. Unfortunately, this is a situation where I am afraid that we are losing investment in Norway. With this kind of policy, Norwegian industry is becoming the loser in the long term. It's, in my opinion, very, very bad. An additional effect of this is that, in fact, in the environmental and climate context of the process industry, we probably have the most environmentally friendly and best companies within the country's borders. In Rogaland, for example, we see that Hydro Karmøy is in a situation where they need to phase out in 2009. half of their production around the old Søderberg technology, and they are in a situation where they have to decide quite soon whether to invest again or not. I hope that the Council of State can give an answer as to whether the state's own instrument, Statkraft, is in some kind of dialogue with Hydro to see if there is an opportunity to put in place a commercial agreement. In addition, it has been ensured that at present there are almost no actors in the Norwegian land market who participate and can offer long-term agreements to industry. Finally, in this context, it is also a paradox that what was to become the great butcher, the winning melody in the follow-up to this period's industrial policy, is given a new approach when we see how the fall-back institute is also at risk of becoming part of this debate, and where the two major industrial locomotives in Norway, Hydro and Elektem, which now manage their own power for industrial production, in the long term, in the 2020s, are at risk of losing their hands on this. This is the power that goes to the Norwegian industry today, but there is no guarantee of where it goes if this type of force is confiscated - or read either: if this comes under so-called political control. Therefore, Norwegian industry now needs a clean-up and a clearer language. I have now seen that the Council of State has today delivered eight new points. I don't see that as anything other than eight points of course, which I think everyone expected the government to work on continuously towards Europe and others.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e2049	The government is very concerned about the conditions of the power-processing industry in Norway. Power-generating enterprises are cornerstones of many communities and provide important jobs in the districts. The government has a lot of attention to the fact that this industry must have a framework in Norway which is at least at the same level as the conditions on the continent by which the industry operates. We have therefore carried out a thorough investigation into the power-processing industry in the last two years. Part of this work was mentioned in the revised 2007 national budget. The review shows that it is relatively good with large parts of the power-processing industry. However, some parts of the industry have a more difficult competitive situation. Competitive access to power is a crucial competitive parameter in this industry. Large parts of industry have ensured predictable and long-term access to power through commercial agreements and self-production. This means that if the regulatory power agreements mainly expire in the period up to 2011, most of the industry will have good long-term power coverage. Primary aluminium, ferro-alloy and wood processing enterprises have covered approximately 80 pst. of the total consumption through such access to 2020. However, some power-processing enterprises do not have sufficiently long-term contracts. Any initial investment may, of course, also be lacking in power coverage through long-term contracts. In other areas too, power-processing industries have good conditions today. Power-generating enterprises connected to the central network pay on average about 1 øre/kWh in network rental, for comparison with general consumption paying on average around 24 øre/kWh. The industry is also largely exempt from electricity charges of more than 10 ø/kWh. Furthermore, industry has a good opportunity to be paid for its flexibility. In general, flexible consumers can benefit from more power when the electricity price is low. They may also participate in special schemes in the State networks to ensure security of supply, energy option schemes and power option schemes. The government is following developments around the power-processing industry in the EU and in the EU at large. Among other things, the questions have been raised with EU energy Commissioner Piebalgs. The EEA State aid rules impose strict restrictions on measures against the power-generating industry. From a number of quarters, it has been claimed that the EU has given Member States an extended scope for action to design schemes involving new subsidies. Furthermore, it has been claimed that specific measures have been put in place for this industry at EU level. However, the government has not found any points of view for this. Me and my predecessor have had an active process with ESA to clarify the possibility of their own Norwegian power regimes for access to this industry. These meetings have confirmed that the EEA Agreement does not provide for power-driven contracts. Suffering from the passing of regulatory power contracts with prices below market level, the Government has a great deal of attention to the conditions of the power-generating industry. We are concerned that we will continue to have a significant power-processing industry in Norway. The government wants to make it easier for the power-generating enterprises to have good conditions in Norway in the future. In order to achieve the objective of continuing to have a strong power-generating industry in Norway, there are three key issues: electricity prices, good general framework conditions and long-term framework conditions. It is essential that the overall balance of power and security of supply are as good as possible. Our objective is to significantly improve the power balance in Norway, and this is absolutely the most important to ensure the viability of the power industry in Norway. The notified investment in more and more renewable energy production is the most important asset in securing the industry in Norway. The government is very positive that a large amount of commercial power agreements have been concluded. Most agreements have been concluded with Statkraft SF, but agreements have also been concluded with other companies, such as: Swedish Vattenfall. The government clearly expresses an ambition that this development will continue, among other things. ownership message, St.meld. No 13 for 2006-2007, says: ‘State power shall work within the EEA legislation to meet industry’s needs for stable and long-term power supplies. The Ministry of Industry and Trade presupposes, inter alia, that State power exhibits a high degree of flexibility by putting together bilateral agreements consisting of several elements such as product price, currency, indexes, take-off flexibility and energy price.’ [[...]] Commercial agreements provide good opportunities for individual adaptations. An example of such adjustments is contracts where price fluctuates depending on product prices. Today, industrial enterprises have great opportunities to acquire power at favourable conditions in the form of long-term commercial agreements with individual adaptations. I stress that many contracts are concluded during these days. There's a lot of activity in this area. The representative Kristiansen therefore gives a false impression when he suggests that this does not take place. If today it does not look like the EU will open up its own power systems for this industry, we will follow developments closely. We will also seek to influence any processes in the EU, in order to create a room for action for new measures for the powerful industry in general in the EU. There are demands from EU industry policy forces for better conditions for the powerful industry, but they seem to have to give way to competition and environmental legislation today. I can't outwit Regeringa's 2009 government budget proposal. The government will assess several elements that can be included in an industrial power solution in its budgetary work. Such a solution may include further developing the existing energy efficiency programmes aimed at the power-processing industry. The aim is to stimulate environmental investment, which goes beyond the current requirements of environmental legislation. The aid schemes shall contribute to the realisation of projects which would otherwise not have been triggered and which provide maximum benefits in terms of energy produced or saved per. invested support crown - etc. The Enova model. Aid may be granted to enterprises currently above EUR 200000 over three years without prejudice to EEA legislation. The government will therefore look at the possibility of a targeted aid scheme for small and medium-sized enterprises in the power-intensive industry within these frameworks. In particular, depreciation rates are important for initial investment. The principle for setting the depreciation rates is that depreciation should reflect the real impairment of capital. This principle is important in order to contribute to economically sound investments and avoid tax planning. Under this principle, the Government will assess whether new information indicates that the depreciation rates and the breakdown of balancing groups should be reviewed. Power-generating industries have low grid rentals because they often take power out of the central network or regional network and are often conveniently located near power generation. In view of this, there is a great deal of evidence to suggest that the network rental for the power-intensive industry should be further reduced. Finally, I would like to make a call for industry. The industry in Finland and France cooperates on industrial solutions on the power side. The Ministry of Oil and Energy will first travel with a delegation from among others. LO and NHO to explore the cooperation solutions chosen by the Finnish, French and Belgian industries. The industry in Norway can learn from the industry in these countries and cooperate in expanding or purchasing power if they consider this appropriate. If the industry comes up with concrete proposals, the Government will, as a matter of fact, assess whether the State should enter as a partner, provided that the industry believes that this is desirable.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e2090	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I choose to perceive as a recognition that one went far too far in his promises in the election campaign in 2005. It was also a description by the Council of State that one has not been able to deliver in this area. It is stated that the Norwegian industry is doing well - and fortunately so. This is done in the competitive sector in this area in most countries - at least for a long time in Europe. What is important is that the Norwegian industry too should have a long-term perspective. It's companies that are currently assessing whether to invest billions here at home, or whether to try to find another venue to invest for the future. Of course, I fully agree that more energy, more power in the market will be of great help to Norwegian industry as well. On the other hand, it cannot be established that the use of low grid rental or a reduced electricity charge is a special Norwegian special aid. That is not what we are talking about in this context. I choose to perceive today's answers as a killing of the promise that today's red-green government is able to obtain Norwegian, powerful industry so-called cheap power, at below market price. Then the Council of State determines that many contracts are concluded today, and that I give a false picture. Then I think the Council of State must refer to who is now making commercial industrial power agreements, because I am not familiar with that. I am only aware that there has been a total lack of conclusion of this type of contract in the country in the last two and a half years. Having regard to the situation of Hydro’s aluminium production in Rogaland with the phasing out of the Søderberg part of the plant on Karmøy, it might be interesting if the Council of State could say something about the ongoing dialogue between the company and its own instrument. Finally, back to today's eight points: will the Council of State be able to do well to ensure that these eight points result in what is stated in the heading: ‘This is how Haga will provide cheap electricity to the industry’?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e2103	In the 2005 election campaign, the red-green parties stressed how busy they were - and they are still - in caring for the powerful industry. The government is systematically working to facilitate a strong and robust industry in Norway for years to come. It is a fact that the Right and other parties that have cooperated with the Right in the later years have not had the same ambitions. This is clearly expressed in documents in Stortinget, where only reference is made to the general framework conditions for industry. The red-green government adds up to a system of a series of measures that together will provide good conditions for the industry. All measures will be within the framework of the EEA Agreement, seagoing. I could be accused of facilitating measures outside the EEA Agreement, but that will not happen. All the measures suggested by us are within the EEA Agreement. An important foundation for this total solution is the long-term commercial power agreements with individual adaptation that companies will have to enter into with State Power. State power confirms to us that they now have conversations with a number of companies, and without me going beyond my mandate, I think I can confirm that it also includes a dialogue with Hydro. In addition to these commercial, long-term, good power contracts that are individually adapted, we will use all the space available under the EEA Agreement to give this industry good conditions. Then we have to look at what areas of action are within the scope of environmental legislation. Then we have to see how we can use so-called de minimis support for small and medium-sized enterprises. Then we have to see if there is anything more that can be done in relation to web rental. Then we have to see if there is something that should be done with the depreciation rates. The government has ambitions to help the powerful industry get good conditions in Norway. We're systematically working on that. Our offensive approach is quite different from the one we've seen from the Right, which has largely used the time to say that nothing is possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e2114	Ivar Kristiansen from the Right who today has the interpellation, almost insinuates in his interpellation that the Government has given up the work of trying to reach long-term and good agreements with the industry - competitive power solutions. That's not right. Some of us have been some periods in the Storting, and we remember very well the previous governments and especially the last Council of State, who even came from the Right, and who stood up here and said quite clearly that here you don't intend to do anything-- here the book is almost closed. We from the red-green government parties did not think it was good enough. There's no reason to give up. We owe it to the industry that has helped build Norway from the beginning of the last century, so that it will have living conditions in the future. I also have to ask: what was the alternative to the interpellant in today's interpellation? It was kind of a hunch that you don't do anything. That's what you do! He says that the agreement has not been concluded at all, but after the information I have, it is 80 pst. the power consumption of the primary aluminium, ferro-alloy and wood processing industries currently covered by commercial power agreements or own power generation. For the remaining 20 pst. It will be very important to put in place long-term, stable and good power agreements, ensuring the living conditions of industry in Norway. In other words, over 80 pst. is covered up, but it's 20 pst. which it is now very important to have looked at. We're working on that. We've put power solutions in place. It's important. But it is equally important for us now to get up production, so that there is enough energy available in Norway. We're gonna keep that. I am also pleased with the climate agreement that Ivar Kristiansen has entered into, which will provide additional new renewable energy to supply Norwegian industry, and we will get solutions within the EEA legislation. The ownership message has gone a long way. It is said that State power will meet the industry's need for power. It is a very strong signal from the state as the main owner to use State Power to provide long-term contracts and prices with which industry can live, and more flexibility in terms of off-takes and energy prices, but of course within commercial agreements that provide good opportunities for all parties. Now, when I was in Statkraft, I would like to remind Ivar Kristiansen and Right of - they correctly suggested it not in Stortinget - that when we discussed the announcement of ownership and the further fate of Statkraft, it was for a long time apparent that one saw a sale and almost a partial privatization of State Power. Fortunately, it didn't come up in this hall. I suppose there was a Christian People's Party that held them in their ears at the time - and thank you for that! I can also mention other examples that there has been discussion about, but when the right saw developments here, of course, they agreed. Solid grips have been taken on the expansion of gas power in Norway, cf. what is happening on Kårstø and Mongstad. It hasn't come of itself. The state is solid in both this energy production and in order to achieve a development that takes care of CO2. Where was Right e.g. during the discussions on gas pipelines to Grenland, which was important to put in place? It meant a massive development of industry and renewable energy. It was also important grips. The government and the red-green don't have their fists trapped. In its contribution today, the Council of State was involved in both depreciation rates and targeted support measures, etc. for industry. Point by point we're going to deliver. There's still some, but we haven't given up, as the previous government did.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e2136	We all remember very well the election campaign in 2005 when red-green politicians around the country and the beach promised that they would only vote on the red-green, they would still secure cheap power contracts for the powerful industry in Norway. The current Prime Minister, Jens Stoltenberg, even stated at the time that a new socialist government will offer electricity to the industry at below market prices. A two-price system in force with a special price for industry and a market price for ordinary households was possible to be established in Norway with the approval of the European Supervisory Authorities of the EEA and ESA. Several other red-green politicians went almost entirely out of their industrial policy remit and proclaimed that it was fully possible to establish an industrial power regime in Norway that would be accepted by the ESA Court. With beautiful promises to provide Norwegian industry with subsidised electricity from the state, the red-greens acquired the extra voices they needed to obtain a majority on the Stortinget, thus laying the foundation for taking over the government power in the autumn of 2005. Right after the election it suddenly became sadly silent from the Government. The power regime of the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV saw until the degrees had been unequivocally promised, turned out to be a solid bluff and rotting election bottle, for just one year after the election, Prime Minister Stoltenberg already had a hot nose. He stated that he could no longer promise the powerful industry in Norway the cheap power he himself had with great bravour promised the industry in the election campaign the year before. Both the then Minister of Oil and Energy Odd Roger Enoxsen of the Centre Party and the then Minister of Industry Odd Eriksen of the Workers' Party continued to play their part in the gallery until the last seizure and promised repeatedly that a new power regime would soon be put in place, and that industrial workers, for example, would continue to play their part. in Årdal could feel safe in the future. But they finally failed completely, and both state councils then eventually chose to take their state councillors and go. The red-green promises could actually never be fulfilled. This should have been understood by the red-greens themselves at a much earlier time. Subsidy of lower power to Norwegian power-intensive industries is not compatible with, or in accordance with, the provisions of the EEA Agreement in this field. Now the government must almost crumble humiliatedly to the cross and famble above the stick and stone. According to the Newspaper today, they frame eight different measures that the Government believes should be a good substitute for the spell of a force regime that they promised in the election campaign. Most of these eight points that we see today are more or less confused with the volatile promises we've heard from that edge. Competitive power prices at market conditions need to be seen to a significant extent in the light of the power shortage we have had in Norway, even in a normal year. For a number of years, the Progress Party has strongly advocated the expansion of significantly more new power generation in Norway, both more hydropower and more gas and other alternative power. If other parties had supported the proposals of the Progress Party to expand significantly more power generation in Norway over the years, we would have had a much better national and Nordic power balance today - which would provide cheaper power prices and a better market base for Norwegian power-intensive industry to obtain favourable commercial power agreements. The Progress Party wishes to maintain Norwegian competitively competitively demanding industry in Norway. But we are not going to do that if all parties, except the Advance Party, go against any new hydropower project and gas power project - or anything else - in Norway. The most important thing is to recognise that we need more power generation in Norway as soon as possible. Only by significantly increasing power generation in Norway and the Nordic countries can we best contribute to ensuring Norwegian industry good energy policy framework conditions in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e2153	It has not been many years since we saw almost all of the government’s power sociologists out among the peoples where salvation was preached to almost any power worker or industrial worker who wanted to hear. It was a horrendous chorus of better-knowing politicians who knew that this would under no circumstances be accepted by the EU and through the EEA Agreement. It was a gigantic breach of promise that was quickly witnessed at today's Council of State, and not least her predecessors. When also the country's prime minister, while he was still opposition leader, went out so clearly and promised industry power at below market price, it was at best against better knowledge. What we are now witnessing is the ultimate revelation of the lifting breach: According to the current government representative, while they were still in opposition, it was only on political will to bring about a new power industry regime. It also turns out to be a somewhat disguised truth. As the Council of State points out in its statement, the ambitions must be that what we now get in place is long-term and within the EEA Agreement – and not as one preached in advance, when one tricked the voters and made them think that there were simple solutions to be found. The fact that the Council of State at least determines that the time has elapsed for regulatory power contracts testifies to the fact that at least this Council of State has now realised that the train has left. In fact, I fully agree with the Council of State in its three points, namely that what must be on the ground is long-termity, power prices and general framework conditions in order to maintain the remaining industry in Norway. But then it's a paradox that today's government is going in the opposite direction at all three points. In the long term, we see even more uncertainty. In terms of power prices, there are only very heavy weather today, and I think in a slightly longer perspective than today, that is to say, because consumption is rising, and power generation is stable. In the case of general framework conditions, taxes are on the way up. One cannot assume that it is not to contribute to a better general framework - on the contrary. The interest rate has risen 13 times for the Bank of Norway after the government change, and the exchange rate has increased significantly over the period. We are saved only by international high commodity prices and, until recently, an international high economy. I am tempted to take a brief review of the eight points of the Council of State in the Newspaper. These were to be the eight saluting points, so that the Norwegian forceful industry would face a bright future. Close cooperation with the EU is required. The fact that a no-state council cooperates closely with the EU is well and good, but it is nothing new. That Statkraft can offer flexible solutions with stable and long-term power supplies is nothing new. The problem is that the Swedish Vattenfall is a far more attractive supplier of electricity and long-term contracts in Norway than Statkraft has been so far. So a political signal might have been OK. Better support schemes and energy saving are also extremely brilliant, but it is the opposition, through the Right, Left and Christian People's Party, which has provoked this once again through the climate agreement, because the Government has scrapped as it is known the energy cooperation with the Swedish people through green certificates. That the government will consider reducing the network lease is nothing less than political empty talk. The same applies to the reassessment of other measures. If you want to do something, you get to figure it out and do it. If you want to evaluate it, it's just enough of a promise. In addition, wanting to increase power generation is exactly what it takes to keep the power price stable - at least we don't want to see an increase from today's level. But we are far from getting new power into the market. In recent years, we've been on the ground resting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e2183	This case concerns 25 000-30 000 jobs and a number of communities, to a large extent in the districts: from the List in the south to the Finns in the north, from Bremen in the north-west to Halden in the east. These are important jobs for Norway. Therefore, the government is working to get long-term power solutions. And therefore, SV is dedicated to getting forward-right arrangements. At the same time, I would like to stress that for us, this is also about the environment and climate and about positioning in the fight for the future jobs. A forward-looking industrial policy needs to address the climate and environmental perspective. The climate threat is the biggest challenge of our time, and it is in this perspective that, in our opinion, the EEA country Norway has the opportunity to obtain stable and long-term solutions for the best for both industry and the environment. SV is committed to developing a green process industry - with enterprises located in the world in terms of new environmental technologies and solutions to reduce climate emissions, and to increasing energy efficiency and recycling. The process industry is an important export industry for the country. It is also an important profession of competence. It has been a major breakthrough for eco-innovations. For example, the aluminium industry has reduced climate emissions by 40 p.p., while production has increased. The Norwegian solar photovoltaic adventure with REC, Elkem Solar and Norsun had not been possible without a Norwegian - powerful - silicon industry. In several places, enterprises have also invested a great deal inincreased measures and energyrecovery. In cities like Kristiansand and Mo in Rana, they fire with heat from waste heat. There is a great potential here. The government does not use the word ‘poor talk’ about industrial power, as the representative Ivar Kristiansen claims in the newspapers. In fact, the government will get a solution. The previous government, Ivar Kristiansen's own, would have no solution. It just said that the EEA Agreement was in the way of everything. And the right-hand-driven Ministry of Oil and Energy also wrote as late as 2005, in Innst. S. No 213 for 2004-2005: ‘In addition to the provisions of the EEA Agreement, the Government emphasises that schemes based on long-term power contracts are not flexible and less targeted.’ That it is the Right that has raised this interpellation is therefore at the limit of an insult. Enterprises investing billions in new technology need a long-term horizon. They need long-term contracts that keep targets internationally. It is not that the situation is acute for most industries. There are very good prices on the international markets, especially for metals. In addition, the spot price for power has been at a relatively low level in 2007, but is now rising. 2008 must therefore be a breakthrough year, and I think it will be. The solutions must be based on a close dialogue between the Government, the trade union movement and the Norwegian industry. In addition, I would like to highlight the environmental movement as important in this work. The Council of State has today presented a set of instruments. I would therefore also like to highlight our government's view of an active ownership, which stands in clear contrast to the views of the Advance Party and the previous government on this. We are also concerned that Norway needs to be inspired by the solutions developed in Finland, Belgium and France linked to a partnership between industrial enterprises and a partnership with the authorities. Spain is also developing a new regime to find long-term contracts for its industry. We must learn from this. SV will also bring funding/investment aid to green energy based on large quantities of waste heat and an increase in industrial potential. Such arrangements will particularly affect the ferro-alloy industry and wood processing which has high quantities of high-temperature waste heat that can be exploited. In 2003, the potential for 5-6 TWh was identified. It's probably a lot higher today. Through waste heat plants can reach 20-30 pst. recovered and transformed into power for the network by the energy of a melting plant. Support for green energy recovery will be a balanced return, where society has access to large volumes of recovered energy and industry is guaranteed a long-term investment horizon. It is important to approve waste heat use as green energy in order to clarify State aid legislation. A green power regime for industry may be combined with contributions to security of supply, the establishment of a power consortium and long-term agreements that follow prices in the industrial product markets. SV has never said that this is a simple job. SV wrote the following in a decision before the 2005 elections: ‘A new industrial power regime is not about continuing policy-specific power prices but about establishing framework conditions that enable Norway to develop the most environmentally friendly and forward-looking process industry in the world. Enterprises must then have access to long-term power agreements that maintain objectives internationally. The EEA Agreement makes a new industrial power regime a demanding but not impossible challenge.»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e2213	Most politicians experience meeting themselves in the doorstep in cases where they have previously taken a strong stand and gone high on the track. It is not a pleasant thing to witness that crystal-clear heights crumble away to nothing when the one who has given the promise comes into a responsible position. The red-greens' many and strong promises to establish their own industrial power market is a sad example of this. In May 2005, Stortinget dealt with a matter of power contracts for power-intensive industries. The Bondevik II government was aware that this was difficult. This is otherwise the same conclusion that two previous governments, including Stoltenberg I, had reached. At the same time, work was intensive on different models that could be implemented within the EEA acquis. Different models were evaluated and tested and not all were discarded. However, during the committee's proceedings in Stortinget, the Labour Party, the Progress Party, SV and the Centre felt that: ‘The government has not explored the possibilities that lie within the current international framework conditions, such as EEA legislation or opportunities that are adjacent to the scope of the EEA Agreement;’;» and that ‘by establishing schemes which are not State aid unlawful or using the exemptions to State aid rules, there is a large legal and political space’. In the election campaign before the 2005 election, industrial power was a lovely debate theme, and the red-green promise of a new industrial power regime was many and very strong. Åslaug Haga said the following in an interview with Dagbladet on 27 August 2005: ‘We are to expand Europe’s rawest infrastructure.’ And she keeps going a little further in the interview: ‘We must have an industrial power regime that ensures competitive conditions for industry.’ Out in the interview, she said, “If we don’t get enough insight into our main issues, yes, it’s not relevant for us to sit in government.” It is clear that such strong statements create expectations in the industry. It was strange to read the newspaper today. Here we could read that the Haga Council would resolve the power crisis and secure a new industrial power regime through eight measures. The problem was that the scheme looked more like a syllabus than an action plan. At important points, such as depreciation rules for power-intensive industries and on-line rentals, the Government only says that it will consider taking action. The fact that the government will cooperate with the EU to improve conditions for the power-intensive industry and increase power generation to ensure sufficient power would be lacking. And encouraging the industry to cooperate on joint power generation can hardly be called a new and revolutionary measure. In other words, the government comes in a number of words and no concrete new measures that can make industry more efficient, as the Government Party and the Council promised in 2005. People respond. Today, the leader of the LO-linked Industry Energy is saying straight ahead: «This is not good enough in relation to what the government has promised. Much remains to be done here.’ This applies to the framework conditions for key corner stone companies and to tens of thousands of jobs in our country. They've been waiting a long time, and they've been patient -- they've been very patient. In fact, industry hastens to be drawn seriously in a completely different way from what we see now. To put it this way, the moment of truth is in. Then the council says that the other party has not had the same ambitions for the force-consuming industry as the red-green government has. I become speechless, and it is not necessary to comment on this in addition to the fact that it falls on its own urism. The serious thing is that unfortunately, it seems that the interpellant's question is left unanswered: What time will the government fulfill its will to give the industry power below market prices?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e2263	The centre party has as an important pillar of our policy that people should have a real freedom of choice in view of every country they want to settle down. A good well-being offer and jobs are basic commitments for busses. Thus, it has always been important for the Centre Party to support the development of nutrition in all parts of the country. An active industrial policy is an industrial policy that, contrary to business neutrality, builds up under the industries where our country has natural advantages. Nutrition neutrality was otherwise the medicine that interpellant's party, Right, swore to in the years they ruled the country. The rich supply of hydropower has given many places in the country the opportunity to build up power-intensive industrial production. This has created important employment in many communities and in many districts. At the same time, there is a useful local-produced power for local production. It has been a conscious and desirable policy of Norwegian government, and a sensible policy, which, despite a higher salary level, has made Norway competitive before the production of, among other things. aluminium and silicon metal. Clearly, the legislation imposed by Norway under the EEA Agreement prevents us from ensuring the cheap power of power-generating industries through power-driven power-driven contracts. National targets for value creation, busses and employment are therefore difficult to achieve because of a competition law that creates precisely business neutrality where this type of local advantage should not be used to provide nourishment, even if it is involved in and builds up under one of the purest productions of this type that we have in the world, and with minimal losses of energy in the network. The centre party may be aware of its opposition to the EEA Agreement. I still think it is right to mention this when we discuss such a matter as industrial power, because the disadvantages of the agreement are so obvious when it is clear that Norway is required to choose other policy solutions than those we had chosen if we had not been subject to EU competition law through the EEA. The Centre Party takes note that a majority in this will support Norwegian membership of the EU through the EEA Agreement, and is therefore busy to see what can be done to facilitate the Norwegian power-intensive industry within the framework of the EEA Agreement. The work may take place along several lines. For the Central Party, it is important that the Government's line with an active European policy is followed up, so that long-term work on improving the framework conditions for this industry continues. It is important to stress that the EEA Agreement does not, of course, prevent Norwegian industry from concluding long-term commercial agreements with energy producers. State councils outline several possible ways of moving within the EEA regime that may be relevant to look at, for example, cooperation on energy efficiency improvement through the Enova system, targeted support within the EEA legislation, assessment of network rentals and instruments in fiscal policy such as: depreciation rules. The Central Party is pleased that the Government assesses a range of measures to ensure an industry that is important to the country and is the cornerstone of many communities. Finally, like several others, I have to ask for the solutions that the interpellant comes with in relation to the power-consuming industry. I followed closely with the representative of Kristiansen, but did not get a word with me about what solutions Right has to secure the powerful industry, which is so important to our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-12.ana.ud938e2283	The regulatory time for tomorrow's meeting is immediately running out, and the President will propose that the Stortinget now take a break until noon. 6:00 p.m. - It'll be looked upon as a confirmation.
