ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e39	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinget meetings today and tomorrow – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Kenneth Svendsen and Solvency Horne. – Other proposals are not available, and Kenneth Svendsen and Solvency Horne are considered unanimously elected presidents of today’s and tomorrow’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e55	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e64	The three things we are dealing with today, the government parties are pleased that we are joined by the Right, Left and Christian People's Party. So these are the same parties that make up the climate agreement on the Storting. The non-participating party is the Progress Party, which maintains the toll profile they have in the National Assembly, but which they do not have when they have positions and power locally. Nor, when they have had occasion to negotiate with Bondevik in connection with the state budget, have they managed to do something about the toll policy they claim they stand for. But I hope that we won't take another long time in the National Assembly to discuss the Progress Party's toll policy, because it's hard enough to understand. It may be a little too bad to say that the three things we are dealing with today are part of the government's countercyclical policy when it comes to the financial crisis, because they were presented before that crisis. But hopefully they will function like that, because they will create new activity in these areas in Hordaland and Rogaland, and they will provide work for the machine and construction industry. That's good. But it is mainly local requirements that we meet today in Stortinget. The T-connection has a hold in Rogaland for over 20 years. It was only when SV came into government that the matter came through. In the past, it has been sold by all parties and governments. They haven't been able to clean this up. Despite the fact that the area is crossed by Christian People's Party and Right spokesmen, and I kept saying what is worse, this case has not been seen in the world. But it's happening today. The progress point - just to fix it - could also have cleared this case off the road when they were in position with Bondevik. The project is worth SEK 1.5 billion. Most of this -- 69 pst. – is toll money and local funding, and the state takes 31 pst. So this is a clear spice layer. The climate agreement requires a carbon accounting. None of these things have it, but it will come back to us when it comes to new issues. However, it is true that in the case of the T-connection, the climate comrades – all of whom do not accept the Progress Party – follow up the profile of the climate deal by pointing out that this area should be assessed in the context of the reward scheme. The climate agreement makes sure that we now have a doubling of the reward scheme, i.e. 323 million. kr, at the disposal of measures which may result in more and fewer car travel. So the requirement for money is reduced car traffic. It's important to keep it together, says all the parties that are involved in the deal. What we need in this area, with 90,000 inhabitants, is an increased investment in public transport and an investment in pedestrian and bicycle roads. We're doing something of this in the Haugalands package, which also provides activity in this business area, but we don't do enough. In fact, all the parties are a little bit critical of the missing bet it's on this local. I am happy that we are now providing a setting for the development of the T-connection after 20 years of waiting. Let me just finally say something about it as my party, SV, wants more of it in the Haugaland area. The Haugesunds Avis has set up a case on the Haugaland city track. We think it would be a wise idea to sort it out locally, because a city track would just lead to us moving traffic from the road and over on the city track. And to think further in view of the fact that the city track can go into the Flotmyr station, where today it is only a bus terminal, to a future high-speed train, then we approach something big in the future. This is not the Government's view, these are the SV's visions of the future in Haugaland. We think this is a trick. And finally, when SV proposed the city track on the North-Jear in 1993, all the parties were against it, and they shook on its head. Today, all the parties are on the North Jären for the city track, and the government has paid $6 million. kr for the planning of the city track on the North Jären. That this takes time, people in Haugaland have to understand, but now they have to tighten up and work for the city track there as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e88	I would like to express my great pleasure in finally getting this case to Stortinget and finishing it. I'm happy for several reasons. This has been on the wallpaper and has been for political treatment in the county and between the state and the municipalities for many, many years. We have a bridge in the area that connects the third largest municipality in Rogaland, Karmøy, with a little under 40 000 inhabitants, stronger to the mainland. The bridge they now have, which they must pass, Karmsund Bru, is built in October 1955. It is continuous maintenance, but it absolutely needs a relief. It gets it with this project, and it gives a new road link between Karmøy, Haugesund and Tysvær municipalities. There are also large plans for nutrient development in these areas in relation to this link. The entire extension will cost approx. DKr 1.4 – 1.5 billion. It's a very good spice layer you can pick up here, between the state, Rogaland County and the municipality of Karmøy, and not least it provides its road users with this. What you also see from the project is that it is an expression of a very strong will and ability at local level to cooperate on the good solutions. This is a good solution in terms of traffic supply in this highly growing area. And it is particularly important, as the rapporteur also said, that there should be wording on strengthening public transport in the region, and that it should be followed up. The climate agreement, which everyone except the Progress Party signed, has this with it, so I expect it to be on solid ground when we go further in the matter. I said a little earlier that it's very important that we have this connection to develop the heavy industrial areas of the region. I just want to remind you of Kårstø and the formidable expansions that are going on right now – it's right near where the tunnel is going to come up. Unfortunately, the municipality has planned a large business area there, and they are also planning a new type of energy production, among others. It is in this area that expansion will take place, and it is therefore important that the infrastructure is in place. Then I see that this toll recovery will be increased when the road project is completed – we just have to take note – that you will get started and complete the plans that are included, among other things. toll station on the east-west link at Mjåsund west of the intersection with E39, i.e. the financing is on a solid basis further forward. The guarantee amount from Rogaland County Municipality and Karmøy Municipality is 150 million. kr, is also very important, and it shows the will in this area. I have pointed out that the road link is becoming important for road traffic, and not least for the contact and a stronger connection between the two major industrial areas in Rogaland, namely Karmøy/Haugesund and Stavanger. There will be significant improvements now. In the case of the coastal line, this connects very heavily, and will also be a contribution to it. As I said earlier, for the third largest municipality in Rogaland, Karmøy, with nearly 40,000 inhabitants and with a heavy industry, it is very important to get this properly in place now. There will be a new time in Haugesund, and not least in Karmøy and Tysvær municipality, where this parcel will now go, under Karmsundet and as a tunnel. I'm going to end this, and I'm going to say that now, hopefully, it's going to end the many questions about this connection. Now we're done with it, and I think it's a happy day.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e107	The toll policy of the Progress Party is easy to understand: it is the State which is to finance and the State which is to pay for the roads of the State. Today, the size deals with three propositions on toll financing for transport projects. The three projects are very different, but they are linked together in a common toll hub. Let me say a little bit about tolls first. The government of Stoltenberg, during its term of office, has opened up an increased share of tolls in toll-financed projects. Tolls are used not only for investment in public transport but also for operations. Under this government, toll financing has become one of the main pillars of the state’s financing of investments in transport infrastructure. The Progress Party considers this to be a regrettable development and a totally unnecessary development. Norway is richer than ever before, and the Progress Party has long considered that part of the return on its present assets should be invested in non-risk domestic assets, and not only in highly risk foreign financial markets. Recent developments show how correct the policy of the Progress Party has been and is, in this area too. In many of the toll-funded road transport projects promoted by the Government that the Storting has completed during this period, both the principles of utility and post-recovery have been broken. The broken-principle line also continues in new cases. The flow of the toll cases continues as well. In this case, advance tolls have been collected using the ferry since 2001. In total, the drivers have paid almost 400 million. kr over the holiday ticket at the end of 2008! Here, there is a difference between life and learning. It often characterizes the use of tolls in such cases. It is easy to finance your own projects when you can send the bill to others. The Progress Party regrets such developments. The Progress Party points out that with modern funding tools that can link available capital and projects, Norway can build an efficient, modern, safe and environmentally friendly road network of 25 years – and without using tolls. So to the project in this case. The T-connection will provide important and necessary improvements to the transport network between the relevant municipalities of Haugesund, Karmøy and Tysvær in Rogaland. The area affected by the project is at the heart of Haugaland, a major economic area. The project is also important for road transport between Karmøy and Stavanger. The Progress Party is, of course, in favour of implementation, but at the same time very critical of the funding proposed. In addition to paying tolls as part of the financing of the project, the drivers shall cover financing costs of 75 million. NOK 47 million and collection costs. kr. In total, it's going to be an extra $12 million. kr. So of this whole package, where the drivers are involved, the bill for the drivers is going to be almost 950 million. kr — nearly 1 billion kr. The Progress Party believes the project should be financed by the State. The big amount, almost 400 million. From 2001 we will simply pay back to the drivers using the ferry, in the same way as they have been collected, by reducing the regulation and by reducing the price of Mortavika-Arsvågen, which has been collected from the two ferry sections, Mortavika-Arsvågen and Mekyarvik-Skudeneshavn. I take up the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote and ask for alternative voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e130	The representative Arne Sortevik has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e133	Let me first make a comment on the statements made by the rapporteur. I think it is charming to experience SV's Hallgeir Langeland standing here and talking hot for a project he has been working against for 20 years. What it has to do with government cooperation, you can just wonder, but it's probably where the dog is buried. He did not explain much to the project itself, but fortunately the representative Tore Nordtun, from the same government coalition, did so in an excellent way. This is a matter of very long seagoing service, 20 years. It is a matter that is important for the development of North Rogaland, and in particular I would like to highlight the link with the E39, the Strait Road for the whole of Haugaland. There is a lot of consensus about the project now. I should therefore not go into particular detail. But from the right I will again praise the municipalities and the users for taking on such a great promise. So this is two-thirds of the funding. Unlike the Progress Party, the Right has found it right in all cases where there is so much commitment and desire to say to impose such an additional burden on itself to support that type of financing arrangement and project. The majority have pointed out that the Haugaland is a locality, with 90,000 people. And if you move into the neighbouring region in the north, Sunnhordland, with its 50,000-60,000 people, we are in a relatively densely populated region with 150 000 people lying as an important development region between Bergen and Stavanger. It is in the middle of this area that this project is located. Bondevik II took the initiative in the reward scheme, and the Right has been committed to developing this reward scheme. We therefore set out as one of our demands in the climate agreement to develop the reward scheme to become the main incentive scheme to promote public transport and less car use. That is why we agree with the rapporteur and the majority in the wording that has been included in this matter. But I want to make it clear that the climate agreement sounds pretty straightforward so that there are local and regional measures to reduce car traffic that is what it is about. It is not synonymous with road pricing or rush time charges. In addition, prior to this ageing period, the Storting has dealt with the principle of an alcohol duty and has said that under no circumstances should double load be applied if there are already tolling arrangements in an area. It is in this area, both with the Haugalands package and with the T-connection. With these comments, I just want to join Nordtun, who said this is a happy day for Haugalandet. It'll be exciting to see further development.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e150	Over this matter there is written one word: Finally. Finally, the Stortinget can today take decisions on the development and financing of the T link. There has been a long process towards an end decision, an overly long process. But today it is a happy day both for the affected road users, for the municipalities that have stood on to realize this, and for the business community, who have waited for years. The T-connection mainly affects the municipalities of Haugesund, Tysvær and Karmøy, but is long-lasting and important for the whole region. The project has been postponed and revised a number of times, and I have to say that this has taken a very long time, too long. It was approved by Stortinget for the first time in 2001. Revised regulatory plans due to new standard requirements were approved at the end of 2005. During this period, the Christian People's Party has repeatedly called for progress in the matter. But I don't think there's any reason to stay too long by it now. We have received a revised financial statement on the table, including: based on up-to-date cost estimates and traffic forecasts. Now it's time to get started. What is now important is to have this adopted, and it will be, fortunately. It is also gratifying that SV, who has been against this project before, has now turned around and will vote in favour of the development. When I heard the representative of Langeland today, he mostly reminded me of a newly converted, and in the Christian People's Party we very well welcome new converts, so I won't make any polemic point of it today! When the link is ready in 2013, it will mean a lot to people in everyday life in the form of shorter and simpler routes, and not least it is important for business in the region. It is therefore with satisfaction that the Christian People's Party is voting for the project, for which we are today given a sentence in this House. The haugaland is a very densely populated area. I would like to emphasise a comment in the position where the majority points out that the Haugaland is an area which has too little traffic system to facilitate good collective solutions and routes. In the Christian People's Party, we are concerned that we are increasingly prioritizing well-developed and coherent networks of walking and cycling routes, and I know that the Council of State will notice exactly that in the setting. I also share the view of the majority, as stated in the vote, that it should be assessed whether Haugaland should in the long term become part of an urban area with the possibility of applying for grants from the State reward scheme for public transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e163	I am very pleased that the entire committee expresses that they will see this important project carried out. This is a project that was first managed in 2001 in Stortinget, which has been through a long process before solutions were finally found in consultation with the municipalities and counties involved. It has been a great commitment of local government and business to this matter for a long time as Minister of Transport. Therefore, it was with great pleasure that I was able to submit this matter for approval by the Council of State on 20 June this year and have it sent to Stortinget. This was less than two months after the county decided on the financing arrangement. The project includes a new link between the E39 at Mjåsund in Tysvær municipality in East and Rv. 47 at Håvik in Karmøy municipality in the west and a new connection between E134 at Raglamyr in Haugesund municipality in the north and Fosen in the south. The total length of the road project is 19.9 km, where 10 km is the tunnel. Opening up to this project will improve communication to and from Karmøy Monaleg and will relieve Haugesund Centre of too much transit traffic. Both public and important industries will be more closely linked. Transport costs and running distances will be reduced, and this will help to improve the collective system between the northern and southern parts of Rogaland. The Håvik-Kårstø industrial axis will be reinforced in parallel with access to Haugesund airport Karmøy. There are approved regulatory plans for the whole new road link. There are also approved control plans for the location and use of excess masses from the tunnel driving several locations in the vicinity of the project. Such masses will also be useful for road construction. It is planned for plant start in spring 2009, with traffic opening around the turn of the year 2012/2013. That there is a minority in the committee who do not want to take into account that the budgets actually set some limits on the state framework for investment, I am not going to let it ruin that we are actually getting this great project going. The majority in the Committee have a comment on the reward schemes. Since its creation in 2004, the number of applicants invited to search for funds has been expanded twice. Although there is a convergence of efforts on measures to improve public transport and reduce car use in selected urban areas, the aim of the scheme is to ensure that the public transport operator is responsible for public transport, i.e.: counties and the municipality of Oslo. However, applications shall be drawn up in close cooperation with the urban areas. In 2007, the reward scheme was evaluated, and for 2008 applications for funds, the number of invited applicants increased from six to nine. On the basis of the management of the Climate Action Communication and the Climate Action Summit in Stortinget, the Ministry of Social Affairs has now revised the guidelines prior to the application for and the release of funds from the 2009 reward scheme. The new guidelines allow you to search for either a one-year grant or a multi-year grant. In the context of the revision of the guidelines, the requirements for licensing are the sharpening. Among other things, a clear plan for strengthening restrictive vehicle rights and that the necessary local decisions are taken before the Ministry can conclude a multi-year agreement with the applicants concerned. Given that there has recently been an extension of the number of seekers and that the guidelines have been revised, it is desirable that the reward scheme should take a time to evaluate new changes. So I'm a little bit skeptical that the system, which has limited resources, is going to have a wide extension now. If the Haugaland is taken in, there are several other urban areas that are in the same category and therefore require non-discrimination. But of course I will still make an assessment, as the Storting asks. This is a good day for the Haugaland, and it's a good day for Rogaland. There are important projects that will see the light of day, and I am absolutely sure that it will contribute to further growth and development in an area where there is a great population – and already a population that shows that they are able to create values, both for the region and for the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e184	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e188	We can quickly agree that it is a joyous day, and we can quickly agree that the Government will not use the tools on which the Progress Party and others point to exist to link available capital in abundance with projects without funding in abundance. But when it is like this, that this government is now constantly using tolls, in ever new ways and with new methods and for new measures, does the Council of State, which has still not provided guidelines for such toll use, mean that there are reasonable principles in this case, i.e. almost ten years of pre-recovery from the drivers before they are given the goods, so to speak, before they can run on the facility they are to be allowed to pre-pay for for 10 years, and the collection of advance payments in completely different places from where the measure comes? Does the Council of State and the Government consider that there are reasonable principles when paying for the roads of the State other than the State?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e195	As in all other toll cases, this case is based on local initiatives. Local policy decisions are under way, and I need to remind you of a strong local political and industrial policy pressure to get the case through as it is confirmed in the Stortinget today. So it's not like the government is pushing this kind of project down on the local population. It's the other way around, that there's a very strong pressure from them and up. So there's something about the reality here. Financial policy considerations mean that tolls in Norway, as in other countries around us, have been a permanent arrangement. I still have discussions with my colleagues, and I see that they, in fact more than we do in Norway, use this tool on larger projects. I believe that what has been put forward today is defensive and can be implemented in line with defence policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e202	No one else has asked for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e207	The T-connection is a very important road and tunnel project for traffic management in Haugalandand will connect the municipalities of Karmøy, Haugesund and Tysvær in a completely new and much better way. The project is firmly anchored politically, both regionally and locally, and has broad support both in business and in the population elsewhere in Haugaland. However, it has taken a long time to get the project processed here in the house, which several have already been involved. I was first in contact with the project as a municipal and county politician in the 1990s, when it was important, especially for Karmøy, to get a better connection to the coastal route. For various reasons, the project has been delayed several times. This, in turn, has resulted in an increase in the costs of the project, which in turn has resulted in new local and regional treatment. Today, however, the big day has finally come for the project to be dealt with in Stortinget. Of course, in a day like this, we should not mention excess costs or the many delays in the project, either the necessary ones or the unnecessary ones. Nor should we mention today the lack of response from the Ministry of Transport's political direction towards ignorant and knowledgeless representatives from the opposition by informal contact with the Ministry. Nor shall we mention with a single word the last and sometimes inexplicable delay of the project which made it all of a sudden finished the same day that the Minister of Transport and Prime Minister was going to Haugaland. Nor do we mention in one word that this means that we are now discussing the matter in November instead of June, which was the plan. Today, of course, we also forget that the Minister for Transport, in his reply to the signed 21 October, could not assure us that a change in the timing of the call would not result in any further change in the cost picture. Today is the day to lift the flag and spread the champagne on Haugaland for this important project. Today, the Stortinget is taking a decision that has been waiting for many years in Haugaland, which will have a very crucial impact on the development of traffic in the region for many years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e216	I just want to remind you that he was in position – three times in connection with the budget together with Bondevik – and could have cleared this matter out of the way. Then he had skipped to keep the suture that was held. I would like to recommend to the Progress Party that when they are in position, they try to clean up matters, and do not leave it to others. Now I get to the point that I actually went up here. When it is used word about me as a freshman and vice versa, I understand that I have to moderate myself, because that is not the case. But what is the case is that I thought it was very funny – and I'm slipping over – that I can do the job that the others couldn't do. So with SV, the Center Party and the Labour Party in government, we're cleaning up what they've been spending for 20 years. It seemed to me to be a little fun, and I am a little happy that I can help them clean up something they should clean up in themselves. So it was misunderstood and viewed as a reversal. But okay, that's life. The T-connection is coming, people are happy, so I'm happy, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e223	I'm not sure that all of the debts that were directed to the State Council in the Vaksdal post should be answered. But there's one point I thought it should be answered, because it's also been said before, from the Right side, and it's kind of a suspicion that I've been training the project to adapt it to a travel route that the Prime Minister and I had myself. It took two months from the county council to make its decision on the matter passed by the state council. I'd like to ask the representatives who are trying to owe the Council of State for such training, to go into other matters and see how many people have a shorter period of time in the ministry before they're presented to the Council of State after they've made the local decisions. That debt falls on their own. That the previous government didn't get to lift the case at all, I can't answer for it. I've worked a lot on things. It has been a cost increase since 2001 and beyond, and, as I said, it was over four years. There has also been a conciliation with the Progress Party, but as far as I can find out, something has been done about the matter. In any case, we in this government are getting things out, and we're going to get the road built. I understand that those who have not received the case and have had something done with her may feel a little bad about it, but at least this is the case. We put forward three things in Stortinget today that I am very pleased that we have been cleaned up and got started.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e232	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 365]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e248	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e257	Now it'll be more joy! For Hardanger, for Hordaland and for the West, this is a joyous day. The project we are dealing with in this setting, the construction of the Jondal tunnel on Highway 107 in Hordaland, will link a housing and labour market of 30,000 inhabitants through the modernisation of the transport system in the region. A Joint Committee stresses that the project is also an important part of modernising the route link between the West and the East, E134 over Haukeli. Within the transport area, things often take a long time, too long. You don't give up. I myself, together with the Progress Party in Hordaland and many others, have worked for and with this project from 1995 and have turned the political stance from political rejection to broad political upheaval and consensus. Good projects have their own strength. That is why this is also an extra happy day for me as case rapporteur. This project has a special history. The scheme of State grants for major rural road projects was terminated from 2001 and incorporated into the income system of county municipalities. The initial allocation of costs related to the financing of such projects was 40 pst, respectively. on the county council and 60 pst. on the State. Let's label it -- 60 pst. on the State. In the context of this conversion, it was appropriate to provide specific funding for some major rural road projects as a transitional arrangement. In the budgetary positions of the Ministry of Transport for the financial years 2002, 2003 and 2005, the Jondals Tunnel project is referred to as such a ‘major county road project’. Decision on additional State allocation of 30 million. kr came into the 2005 state budget. The municipalities concerned contribute to the project. Compensation funds for increased employers’ fees are used as a financial contribution to the project. And not least, Hordaland even contributes 507 million. kr, i.e. Almost two thirds – not 40 pst. as one had in the old scheme, but almost two thirds are in the county. The Committee is united in its support of the project but has different views on funding. The progress batch refers to the status as a ‘major remaining state road project’ where the distribution was 60 pst. on the state and 40 pst. in the county. Such a distribution used for this project would result in State funding of a total of 456 million. kr instead of the proposal in the 52 million financing plan of the project. kr. The difference is remarkably large. In the opinion of the Progress Party, it will not create any specific ad hoc consequences in retrospect of all the time this project actually represents the only ‘residual’ of those referred to as the ‘major state road project’ linked to the system conversion in 2001. The Progress Party therefore considers that at least the State should finance the part of the overall financial plan proposed in the proposal covered by tolls. In this case, the State contribution will increase from the proposal of 52 million. kr and 6.8 pst. of the total of 135 million. kr and button 18 pst. of the total, however, well 300 million. kr less than the old scheme would result in such a project. We believe that this will be a good solution, and that is our proposal. The Progress Party is for the Jondal Tunnel and for the extension of the State funding of the project. I would like to raise the proposal of the Progress Party and ask that there be an alternative vote between the vote and the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e276	The representative of Arne Sortevik has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e279	I have no problem joining the rapporteur's expression of joy that this project is now being adopted here as well. Hardanger is an area that is struggling to keep up the population. Unfortunately, a magnificent nature and good neighbours are not long enough to make people live in many small communities along the Hardangerfjord. In our days, there is a need for a larger register of jobs and services than the small municipalities such as the Netherlands. Jondal's got a place for the youth. Hardanger has chosen to meet this with a journey promise to create a larger and more robust housing and work region. The Folgefonn tunnel has established a good connection between Odda and Kvinnherad, the Jondal tunnel will connect Jondal to these municipalities. This provides new and exciting opportunities for business development and housing. The vision of a tunnel that binds Jondal and Women's Heaths together has been brought forward by a number of forward-looking and visionary politicians in Hardanger. There has been a long and sometimes difficult process that has led to the project. One of the more demanding aspects of such a case is the environmental aspect. Hardanger is a natural area, and a road and tunnel project like this will of course appear in the terrain. For the Jondals tunnel, several completed road and tunnel options are available and the final choice will be made when tenders have been obtained. The trasé choices have been a hot topic, especially for environmental activists who have been involved. There is broad consensus among all the supporters of the project that it will take care of nature and the environment as far as possible within reasonable limits. The question is where we set reasonable limits, and how we prioritise the choice of making life better in Hardanger, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the need to preserve a beautiful landscape that is nice to look at. I think it is important in such cases that we reflect on the impact of the demands of the large-scale society on the quality of the environment on the communities that have their development opportunities severely reduced. As far as the Jondal tunnel is concerned, I think we have found a good balance. During these days, there is a case in the neighbouring municipality of Kvam, where plans for the construction of a new yard have triggered major discussions on how the food supply should be. It is my hope that in that case, too, we can come up with a balanced solution that makes it possible to secure employment and housing. In such cases as this, it is important to listen to the local elected representatives’ assessments of how to balance them. It's the ones who have to live with the consequences of the choices being made. There is every reason to note the strong local involvement in the municipal financing of the Jondal Tunnel, but also the support of state politicians for the project. I am pleased with the broad connection that the project has received in the consideration of the Committee and now sees to it that we can carry out the construction of the Jondal tunnel as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e296	Several of today's speakers have come to the conclusion that there are actually three toll projects we are dealing with today, including the Council of State, which this time does not hesitate to talk about the 'previous government', after three years in the ministry. I miss a certain honesty and sincerity compared to the fact that there is a need for time to get matters through, which is actually the reason why matters go to the road directorate and department. I also miss a bit of humility – perhaps especially in this case – because there has actually been no impressive contribution from the state to realize this project. We all know that, and when you know that, you might not be quite so high and dark in how to talk about things. But do not let the dark ‘stundo’, as it is called in the West. This is a great day for the municipalities, especially for the municipalities of Kvam, Jondal, Odda and Kvinnherad, who have been in the forefront of this project, but of course also for the municipality of Hordaland – yes, for people throughout Hardanger. I think the case rapporteur gave a thorough and good account. I just want to add that the Jondal tunnel has been in many ways the missing part of a natural communication axis that has been running since the Folgefonn tunnel was built. It is also true that this is a financing solution that is a follow-up from the old ‘subsidy to large county road projects’. But I think it is right from Stortinget's pulpit today to point out that a larger county road system than this with contributions from the county we have hardly seen – 760 million. kr in total cost, where the county municipality is behind 70 pst. of the financing. Thus, the State contributes 6-7 pst. This shows most of all a willingness to invest and develop in this region. It's an exciting project, because it's a virgin terrain this is going to go through. It's a new corridor that we don't have any experience with. It opens up huge opportunities and new transport corridors through this area. So it'll be very exciting to follow this development. There is a great deal of consensus in the Committee on this project as well. From the Right we are particularly pleased that we are now receiving a clear signal, and I will also be able to add that from our side we hope that the final trasé solution locally will be living with for all parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e311	'High and dark' can be perceived in different ways, but they I'm thinking of are at least bright, so I don't think the Right should have a hard cigar guide for the effort when it comes to the Jondal tunnel, either locally or in a historical perspective. But now it's the way things are going, and it has to be the most important thing. That was also what the representative from the Right said in his statement. I thought the case spokesperson here in a knowledgeable way presented this matter nuanced and balanced, and I don't need to comment on it any more – just a few points. The only thing is what Halleraker was about, that big money goes to road projects in the county. That means that other things are prioritised down. The fact that one of the municipalities has such a high priority is therefore having implications for other sectors. It's worrying. I agree with right-to-right. The second is that when one sees how important this tunnel will be in the future if one looks at the trasear between Austland and the West and E134 over Haukeli and the tribal road there, one sees that here goes the shortest road between Bergen and the Austland area. This is where he goes. I also found that interesting in relation to other transport projects in the area. I just want to join in the joy that this government also clears this matter out of the world. That's good. So, in addition, we add opportunities for more work to people by giving more jobs to the construction industry. So this is going the way!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e322	Today, the flag goes to the top of the Women's Heath and Jondal, but also in other parts of the region, the Jondal Tunnel will mean a great deal. There is a long and tough process that is now going to the end, and this is an example of the willingness, patience and interaction in the region giving results. There is a call for the inclusion of all four combinations of options, and I am convinced that it makes sense. Perhaps the particular situation that we are currently experiencing in the construction activity may lead to an even better project here than what it might look like for a period of time. Special security is very important. This is not just a keyword, it is an important reality. On the Women's Heroed side of this project, it is a very demanding challenge to get defensive racial protection. I'm afraid it can be a pretty high price before you have an adequate and good race protection here, but we can't turn on the safety requirements for road users. In this part of the country, racial protection is one of the most important elements to provide such security. But today we're slipping. We're glad that this important project is making a huge advance and is now approaching a realization.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e333	We in the Center Party are busy with transportation, not because it's a goal in itself, but because a good and secure infrastructure is a decisive commitment to growth and development in all parts of our country. In the case of the Jondal Tunnel in Hordaland, there is a long and patient work from local forces, not least from the Center Party, which is now producing results. Creating well-functioning work, bus and service regions is not only easy when fjords and mountains divide communities. But by building the country not only stone on stone, but also meters by meter, we face a future offensive. Internal parts of Hordaland have fallen somewhat behind in development in relation to external parts. That's the same thing in other states. For the Centre Party, the Jondal Tunnel is a sensible means of achieving the goal of growth in inner strokes. In this case, we can transform our slogan ‘Take advantage of the whole country’ into ‘Take full use of Hordaland’. I would like to finish by congratulating all those who have worked on this project, on the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e346	This is a matter of long history. A lot of people have done a lot of work to get this project realized. Not least, managers of words, current and past, from Jondal and from good neighboring municipalities in Hardanger have reason to rejoice that the work is ultimately begging for fruit. For various reasons, it has taken a long time before the matter could be brought before the Storting. I am therefore pleased that the majority in the Committee have joined in the proposal for partial toll financing for the Jondal tunnel. The project will establish a new connection between Jondal and Kvinnherad municipalities. The main objective is to provide Jondal with better and shorter connections to the Kvinnherad and further via the Folgefonn tunnel towards Odda and E134. The Jondal tunnel is also important for the regional development of municipalities on and around the Folgefonn peninsula in Hardanger. I'm sure the project will bring new growth and development to the region, and I'm impressed by the initiative-rich people who see the possibilities when a new path is in place. After a visit to Jondal, I have a lot of important memories of initiative-rich people waiting for us and the community around them to facilitate their use of their creative abilities. There are plans for several trasé solutions. Final options will be taken after fetching from contractors' offerings for several options. Based on the trasé solution in the approved control plans, the length of the tunnel is 8.3 km. Through the transitional arrangements for large county road projects, it was possible to give priority to up to 50 million. kr for such projects within the county-divided framework of other national road networks for the period 2002–2005. For the Jondals Tunnel project, it was opened to extend the scheme to the period 2006-2009. During the treatment of the 2005 State budget, the Stortinget raised 30 million under certain conditions. 2005-kroner in addition to the project, cf. Budget-in-one. S. No 13 for 2004–2005. It was a premise that the rest of the total amount of $50 million. kr was prioritised within the county-divided framework for other national roads in Hordaland for the period 2006-2009. The county council in Hordaland will meet on 4 May 2005 at a rate of up to 20 million. kr to Jondalstunnel. I refer to these commitments and see no reason why the State should also finance the toll section, as the minority in the Committee agrees. This is a project where a local settlement has been found and a valid solution has been found. The total cost of completing each of the four combinations varies from approximately DKK 1 billion to approximately DKK 1.2 billion. This includes the development of two-field roads on the whole line from rv. 551 in Kvinnherad to Belsnes in Jondal. An updated cost estimate was quality assured by an external consultant in 2007 in line with the government investment management principle. On the basis of the increase in costs, Hordaland County approved a new financing plan on 24 April 2008. In addition to state subsidies and tolls, funding includes municipal subsidies and county funds. In other words, this is a real splinter layer. Not least, I would like to praise Hordaland County, which is setting up and making a great deal of effort, which will mean a great deal for the Hardanger region and for Hordaland County as a whole. It was set up for plant start-up in 2009, with a traffic opening in 2012. When the expropriation starts up for the Jondals tunnel, it will be two toll stations between Jondal and Odda until the Folgefonn tunnel has been disbursed in 2016. The counties have entered in order that the road users passing both the Folgefonn tunnel and the Jondals tunnel within an hour shall only pay for passage in the Jondals tunnel. As stated in the proposal, and as I have replied to it in writing, the introduction of automated collection for both the Jondal tunnel and the Folkefonn tunnel should be considered more closely. This is something I want to follow up. I attach great importance to the local policy commitment to part-financing the development of tolls. Since this is a county road project, I believe that particular attention must be paid to the county municipality's proposal for financing, including advance collection of the ferry link Jondal-Tørvikbygd. Finally, I would say that I have great confidence that the county council is handling the bidding of several trasé options in a good way, and I am looking forward to an important project for Hordaland and Hardanger finally being realised.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e372	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e376	Let me first say to the Council of State in this way instead of in a line that we may disagree on the method of financing, but the Progress Party gives the Council of State the credit for having been involved and brought the matter forward. We see it this way, and we're happy to pay tribute to it. This project is quality-secured for over-measures. It's been for external quality assurance three times in all, so we feel sure we don't get any unpleasant expense here. In addition, there is reason to point out what others have pointed out, namely that we know a similar tunnel project in the nearby area there, namely the Folgefonn tunnel, which has been in use for a long time until the drivers enjoyed it. In addition, it was a very successful construction project, which went on rails in relation to the costs and the tenders that came in. It was driven by the Vegvesen itself on the one hand and private entrepreneurs on the other – half of the project. And they hit each other -- that's not the least important. Many people are enjoying themselves today. That's why, because there's been a long and strenuous way forward; not least, it's been strenuous for Hordaland County, which has taken the big funding promise on this project. They have had the matter before them many times. It has not been long since they re-examined it in the context of calls for tender. However, I think it may be in place with a clarification related to how the county council ends up about the project. The last substantive treatment in the district of Hordaland took place in April of this year – April 2008. Then there were 43 votes for the decision to build this tunnel, and the 43 votes came from the Progress Party, the Workers' Party, SV, the Center Party, the Left, the Red – as it is now called in New Norse – and two representatives of the Christian People's Party. 14 representatives voted against building the tunnel. If I got the right protocol – I think – there were eleven voices from the Right and three from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e387	It was interesting facts that came from the Progress Party here. I only take the word for a clarification of what is in the notes for the trasé selection. The Committee on Transport and Communications has been in the area and has looked at how the various interventions in nature will be. I feel the need, also on the basis of the documentation we have received, to provide clear advice – without having any meaning in this way, but at least a clear advice – from the SV to choose the option that takes the most care of the local population and of nature and the environment when a well-traced plant starts in 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e392	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 365]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e408	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e417	This case concerns the construction and financing of a new ferries in the municipality of Kvinnherad in the Årsnes region and, in addition, remedial measures on existing yards. 551 between today’s holiday home on Løfallstrand and Årsnes — perhaps not a big deal compared to the previous ones, but still very important. It is, of course, the financing arrangement with significant elements of tolls that are the reason why the Storting is dealing with the matter. Once again, we see that the municipality, in this case the Municipality of Women, and road users assume financial responsibility to realise important measures to improve the infrastructure – in this case 50 pst. of the total cost of 80 million. kr. Today’s ferry link Gjermundshamn – Løfallstrand is important for both local and long-distance traffic and is widely used as an east-west transit link after the opening of the Folgefonn tunnel. It's actually the ferry section in Hordaland that has most of the remaining cars. And that's of course the source of great irritation not being able to come with the ferries. Today's holiday home on Løfallstrand is worn down and crowded and has poor capacity. That's why it's very timely that we now get this renewal. But it not only means a renewal, it also means a curtailment on the ferry section, which also includes a stop on Varaldsøy in the middle of the fjord. The majority of the Committee endorses the financing approach. The financing facility involves tolls to be collected on the ferry by adding four additional charging zones to the regular charging zone once the new connection is established. It is also the case that the county municipality of Hordaland is to establish and operate the toll company responsible for the collection of those tolls and the financing contribution. The Committee has also agreed that the previously agreed reimbursement to the Municipality of Kvinnherad of 20 million. kr is included as a re-shooting to get the project started soon. The Committee has endeavoured to have this matter dealt with quickly in the Committee and in the Storting, and I would like to thank my committee colleagues for their willingness to do so. We have therefore made it clear in the Committee's majority comments that we want to start as early as possible in 2009 and that efforts are being made to reduce and shorten the construction period, if possible, so that the construction period does not extend over two summer seasons, but can be extended to summer traffic in 2010. In the end, the majority note that the municipality of Hordaland has entered a ferry-free coastal line, E39, through the neighbouring municipality of Fusa on the other side of the fjord. When this is finished, it may well be that today’s decision can prove to be very important for the cross-link from E134 to E39 — yes, for the whole coastal route through Hordaland.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e434	This is a case that brings great joy to the Women's House – that decisions are not taken. As the rapporteur has explained, there are major problems with the traffic disruption at the ferry link Løfallstrand-Gjermundshamn. In Hordaland, we are very pleased that it is now being added to a long-term solution to the problems experienced today in this ferry link. The crooked and out-of-date quay on Løfallstrand has no capacity in any way to escape traffic. There is too little car parking space, and the rental is too small and too poor to take larger ferries. With the opening of the Folgefonn tunnel, traffic has increased, but without strengthening the capacity of the ferry link. In the summer, the municipality had to join a split-up team with the transport company Tide, which operates the route, in order to have a third ferry installed for six weeks. Many cars and poor traffic conditions have led to serious problems in keeping track of the queue. It has gone so far that this summer it was necessary to have the police on the spot to keep things in order. It goes without saying that this situation is unsustainable. People hesitate to travel to and through this part of the Women's Heath when they know that the risk of sitting in the heifer queue for several hours is imminent. This is serious for a municipality that is struggling to maintain a population of more than 13 000. It will also be difficult for women to exploit the obvious potential for tourism that both Baronian Rosendal and a natural Hardanger provide. It is also a problem for the whole region, as this ferry route also takes traffic from the Odda side of the Folgefonn tunnel. New ferries at the Årsnes will allow large ferries to be installed that can take off the traffic in a completely different way. The problem is that this quay will not be finished until 2010. In the run-up to the launch of new ferries, other measures need to be taken to avoid traffic peaks. Planning such measures is now under way, I am well aware of it, and I would like to ask the Council of State to make a positive contribution to government participation in good temporary solutions when local authorities contact this matter soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e449	I said in my first post, in the first case, that when the Stortinge treats today three proposals on toll financing of projects, there are three very different projects, three different projects that are linked in a common toll chain – absolutely unnecessary in the opinion of the Progress Party. The first project is a kind of ‘classical’ toll project, where, almost ten years before the drivers are delivered, almost 400 million are collected. kr. The second thing we have just dealt with, a remaining county road project, suffers from a strongly reduced state contribution share due to an administrative change – not uncommon but nevertheless regrettable. So to this project – building and financing new ferries at the Year's and repairing rv. 551 between Løfallstrand and Årsnes in the municipality of Kvinnherad. Fortunately, we do not often have such projects to deal with in Stortinget: toll financing of a ferries project to a total of 80 million. kr. There's no doubt that it's necessary to do something about the holiday home, but at the same time it has something unfortunate about an oily nation that we actually have to treat the renewal and construction of a new ferry home to 80 million. kr through a separate case in the national Parliament of the country. At the same time, there is a worrying signal that almost without reservation, ferry routes are used to collect tolls, either for related projects or, as we saw in the first case, for projects that have no connection whatsoever with the use of the ferry by road users. I would like to refer to the protocol provided in connection with Hordaland County dealing with the matter. I quote: ‘Protocol comment from the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People’s Party, independent and SV: ‘The County believes that we are now moving the boundaries by using toll financing in the construction of ferries. The Constitution believes that this should be fully funded by the State budget." I also refer to the answers from the Ministry of Transport that have been given in the matter. I'll be careful to quote what we can access and say 'unfortunately' to: «The number of projects carried out in this type is limited.» Of the total amount of 80 million. So $40 million. be financed by tolls. In addition to the 40 million. The drivers shall pay the financing costs of 14 million kroner. NOK 3 million and collection costs. kr. The total cost covered by tolls is 57 million. kr. Thus, financing and collection costs represent a supplement of more than 40 pst. – 42.5 pst., to be accurate. In other contexts, it would be said that these were terms of succession. If it's parliamentary, I'll leave the president to find out. The link between Løfallstrand and Gjermundshamn is, as others have said, important for both local and long-distance traffic. Rv. 551 from Odda to Løfallstrand, ferry to Gjermundshamn and rv. 48 further from Gjermundshamn towards Bergen is one of several important travel routes used for the route between Odda and Bergen. Today's holiday home on Løfallstrand is old and worn out. The Progress Party considers that the construction of new ferries is necessary, and underlines, as others have done, the need for the construction to be started and implemented as quickly as possible, so that completion can be completed by the summer of 2010. But we believe that the holiday home should be financed by the state, including the new holiday home of the Year. I take up our proposal from the vote and ask for alternative voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e478	The representative of Arne Sortevik has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e481	There are many who depend on being shot over the numerous and not least beautiful fjords in our country. Unfortunately, there are too many ferries that are too small and impractical and have no parking space. This creates road-hazard conditions in some places and leads to frustration at the driving lists. In addition, the ferries are temporarily hindering the introduction of larger ferries where large traffic volumes make it reasonable to increase capacity. The case spokesperson, Halleraker, had a good review of the matter we are debating now, and he states that the ferry link Løfallstrand-Varaldsøy-Gjermundshamn is the connection that has the most remaining cars due to the poor infrastructure and the rational sailing pattern for the ferries. That's why it's time for a new holiday home to be built. Corrected by rv. 551, which will be the route of entry between Løfallstrand and Årsnes, is also important. For this reason, the Committee has ensured that construction work should not be unnecessarily delayed as soon as possible. The main route link E134 between the West and the Austland over Haukeli is important to improve, because it includes: is a very important transport by industry on this road. In this way, it makes sense to also put in place new tunnels over Haukelifjell. This is in the future. Now it is the measure in the municipality of Women's Heroes in Hordaland, which is at least a step on the road to make this route more accessible. But not least, local traffic conditions will improve, and it also shows local political involvement in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e490	I take the floor on behalf of the Christian People's Party to say that the Christian People's Party joins the vote and what the plural says about funding. It was Henriksen's representative who said that this was going to be a good day for the Women's House, and that these projects have a lot of support. When one has been on Ferjekaia in Løfallstrand, one knows that there is a need here. The same applies to the repair of the highway between Løfallstrand and Årsnes. The debate we have been discussing here has our funding. To that, I would like to say two things: the one thing is that it is very good that one puts on such layers, including local authorities. The second thing I want to say is that the most important thing is to have the projects carried out. In this context, I also want to give honor to the Government, who has made the proposal, so that we can put this project in place and insofar as the previous issues, which have been important to get in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e499	I am pleased that the majority in the Committee have joined in the proposal on partial toll financing for this project. The project is important and will replace current Ferjekai on Løfallstrand with new ferjekai on Årsnes in the connection to Gjermundshamn and Varaldsøy. In addition to the construction of new ferries at Årsnes ca. 4 km north of Løfallstrand, remedial action will be taken on rv. 551 between Løfallstrand and Årsnes. Holiday home on Løfallstrand is old and worn out. Kaia is short, and the depth ratio of Kaia means that there are no ferries in place that are running on the ferry line today. The location is also too small in relation to traffic, a traffic which has increased considerably in recent years, and which will certainly continue to increase, in an area where there are also changes in the travel pattern. The sailing time over Hardangerfjord is reduced from about 25 minutes to about 20 minutes. This applies both to the Gjermundshamn connection and to the Varaldsø link. The journey time between Odda and Bergen will gather hosts reduced by about 10 minutes, since the runtime will also be shorter from Odda to the new Ferjekaia. For traffic from the south of Løfallstrand, the run time will increase to the new Ferjekaia, but the sum of running time and sailing time will be approximated as at present. Building a new ferry is estimated to cost 60 million. kr. In addition, it's set of 20 million. kr for road repairs. Measures have been provided for financed by government funds and tolls. The toll revenue will come from an increase in the rates of the ferry service. It's added to base 40 million. kr in government funds. The local authorities have accepted the deferral of a State reimbursement of 20 million. kr of previously advanced funds to rv. 551 Austrepollen-Løfallstrand from 2009 to 2010–2013. The condition is that 20 million. kr is put at the disposal of the above mentioned project in 2009. It has been added to the start of construction in spring 2009. I am grateful that the majority in the committee with its rapid treatment will contribute to the possible refurbishment and curtailment of the construction period. I agree that it is unfortunate if the construction period goes over two summer seasons. I have been informed by the State Road Administration that it is a goal that ferjekaia can be opened for traffic from the summer season 2010. If there is contact from a local source about temporary solutions until a new holiday home is in place, we will of course, as otherwise, be open to discuss it, without allowing me today to advance what will be the result of such a conversation. This is the last of three issues today that, in their own way, will contribute to better transport solutions in an important region, Hordaland and Rogaland. The representative Hareide said that the important thing is that the projects are realised. The large amount of work I have from local government, from local business, from local fires that are involved in projecting suggests that they are true words. People are impatient, and are also willing to be part of splintered teams, both local and regional governance, as we have seen today, and the carist – even if we have a Progress Party that, at least in this room, maintains its resistance to such projects. But we see that the Progress Party, too, when they get power and influence, is invoking the Department of Transportation to get the toll project up and running. In turn, I would like to congratulate the Committee on the rapid, good and orderly handling of the matter. I feel that there is constructive cooperation with the Committee, and that is important. One thing is to get the case up to the Storting, but the matter is also to be done through this important hall in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e525	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e528	There is reason to remember that we in the Progress Party are, of course, drivers to get a fast realization of many good transportation projects, but it is in the Stortinget that funding is adopted, and it is the state that is to pay for the state's roads. That's what I started to say in my article on the first case. In this case, I have referred to a protocol delivery when the county discussed the matter. In addition to the parties Progress Party, Right and Christian People's Party, the government partner SV was in fact also involved in the protocol delivery that states that this matter involves moving the toll limits. What is the opinion of the Council of State on the use of tolls in this matter? Does she agree with the government partner SV's comment locally in the county that with this way of financing, you actually move the toll limits? And is she thinking about using the ferry ticket in general to collect tolls?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e538	Ferjekaia is part of the road network The principle of financing public ferries is exactly the same as for financing the road network otherwise. I can refer to the Road Code, where a licence has been issued to enable tolls and local ear-marked fuel charges to be used in the financing. There are therefore no separate guidelines for toll financing for ferries. It's the same as for the road network. So that one moves some markers in this case, I absolutely can't see.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e545	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 366]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e560	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e568	During the debate Arne Sortevik put forward three proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The size consents to the development of the Rv 47 T-congener as stated in St.prp. No 70 [[2008-2009]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The development of the Rv 47 T link is financed by State resources. The Government is asked to ensure that the Directorate of Roads is authorised to raise low-interest government loans to finance the project. The Storting assumes that, at the latest when the Government's proposal for the NTP for 2010–2019 is submitted, a scheme will be put in place for the conversion of the state authorities' roads, the railway works and the Coastal Works to state companies. Furthermore, the size assumes that such State companies are given the opportunity to raise low-interest government loans in order to ensure the clear, predictable and long-term financing of a comprehensive investment programme that can provide efficient, safe and environmentally friendly transport for Norway.’» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘Tolls pre-registered from the drivers from the ferry lines E39 Mortavika – Arsvågen and Rv 47 Mekkarvik [[Randaberg]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e586	Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e616	During the debate Arne Sortevik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e632	Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e662	During the debate Arne Sortevik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e678	Alternatively, this proposal and the setting-up of the Committee shall be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e704	The President makes it clear that there is still a voting obligation. Because here the numbers have varied. There are some people who have not voted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-04.ana.ud1326e716	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
