ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e105	There are several permissive requests: from the representatives of Erling Sande and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen on leave from 20 May to 22 May - both to take part in the election of the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE at the elections in Georgia from the Labour Party Group on sick leave of the representative Rolf Terje Klungland from 20 May onwards and until further notice from the Group of the Progressive Party on sick leave of the representative Vigdis Giltun from 20 May onwards and until further notice from the representative Torbjørn Andersen on welfare leave from 20 May until further notice from the representative Vidar Bjørnstad on welfare leave from 20 May until further notice The President proposes that these applications be dealt with immediately and accepted - and sees it as agreed. From the first representative of Telemark County Lise Wiik there is an application to be released from office to meet in Stortinget under the representative Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen's leave, due to foreign residence. The President proposes that this application be dealt with immediately and accepted - and sees it as agreed. On a proposal from the President, the following agreement was reached: The following alternates will be convened to meet during the leave period: For East-Agder County: Ingrid SkårmoFor West-Agder County: Tom Rune ThorvaldsenFor Akershus County: Anita Orlund For Sogn and Fjordne County: Knut Magnus OlsenFor Telemark County: Sindre Fossum Beyer For Østfold County: Per Egil EvensenAnita Orlund will be elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of Vidar Bjørnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e184	Ingrid Skårmo, Tom Rune Thorvaldsen, Anita Orlund, Knut Magnus Olsen, Sindre Fossum Beyer and Per Egil Evensen are present and will take a seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e190	The President will propose the election of two Presidents for the Stortinget meeting today and the rest of this week - and see it as agreed. The President will propose Solveig Horne and Anders Anundsen. - Other proposals are not in line, and Solvency Horne and Anders Anundsen are consonantly elected as seat president for Stortinget's meeting this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e200	The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e203	On behalf of Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Per Egil Evensen and myself, I am delighted to propose the establishment of a national competence and treatment centre for children with brain damage.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e208	The proposal will be dealt with in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e220	It is the task of foreign policy to take care of Norwegian interests and promote values that are important to us. We need to do this in an era of increasing globalisation, where many framework conditions are established, but many are also undergoing profound change. Foreign and security policy must strike a balanced balance between continuity and renewal if we are to be able to assert Norway, take responsibility, and thus safeguard our interests. If we want others to be relevant to us, we have to be able to be relevant to them. Our engagement policy is based on a recognition that Norwegian security and Norwegian interests must be safeguarded through a clear focus on our neighbourhoods - and on the recognition that relevance in today's world is also about involvement outside the neighbourhoods. The greatest challenges of our time cannot be geographically isolated. They're cross-border. Climate, the fight against poverty, the fight against international terrorism, the spread of infectious diseases, the challenges of migration, the work for peace, disarmament and conflict prevention - all this political work is being carried out in several arenas, and many of them geographically far outside our neighbourhoods. Norway is a surplus nation, politically and economically. We have the capacity and the strength to take part in the responsibility for a safer world. This is what we would like to know, especially when the outside world sees Norway as privileged, with high incomes, great wealth and peace and stability. Therefore, Norwegian engagement policy is also intended to serve Norwegian interests in such a way that we take joint responsibility and build a community of interests with key actors, with partners that we also need to promote what is important for Norway. Key tasks for us in the spring of 2008 provide a temporal picture of this approach: In April we gathered the International Contact Group for Somalia in Oslo - a group of Norway has led with the United States, and for which the United Nations is now taking responsibility. At the beginning of May, we led the donor country group to the Palestinians, AHLC, to the London ministerial meeting, which was also the first large political-level meeting on the Middle East since the Annapolis meeting last autumn. In the first week of May, we attended the donor country conference for Sudan here in Oslo. A week ago, negotiators for the Philippine government and the so-called National Democratic Front of the Philippines had informal, confidential peace talks here in Oslo, where we were hosting and facilitating, at the request of the parties. Through four governments, Norway has contributed as the initiator of political peace talks in Sri Lanka. There have been ups and downs, and the parties must bear responsibility for both. Now point a lot down. Norway is still ready to contribute if it can lead to peace. Norway took the lead in strengthening international coordination of efforts in Afghanistan, and this was achieved. We are now participating in the core group for preparations for the Afghanistan Conference in Paris on 12 June this year. Norway shows leadership in key parts of global climate work, such as in forest management and in promoting capture and storage technologies. With the Prime Minister at the head, Norway has created an alliance to deliver on two of the central thousand-year targets: the fight against child mortality and maternal mortality. This week the call in Dublin began in the negotiations on an international convention against class ammunition, which has unacceptable humanitarian consequences - a process that started in Oslo last February. I could mention several examples of Norwegian involvement and presence in international contexts, but more important here today is the question: Why is this important for Norway? Firstly, because poverty, climate and environmental degradation, migration, conflict and instability threaten international peace and security and therefore Norwegian security. It is therefore in our interest to contribute where we can, not least when our efforts are sought, and when our efforts in certain areas can make a difference. Secondly, because our commitment gives us a voice it's being listened to, beyond the areas and conflicts I mentioned. Norwegian foreign policy is characterised by commitment. Our active involvement therefore provides access to key international decision-makers and arenas that are important to Norway in other contexts as well. This is an approach we always need. And as a country outside the EU, perhaps the most important regional decision-making venue in the world has seen, it may be challenging for Norway to gain access in a number of contexts. In our world, a country is not relevant just by who it is and where it is located. It is also crucial what the country is doing, and what kind of promise it is ready to take. And then a third dimension: Exposure policy is value policy. Policies that are not anchored in values are arbitrary and unstable and therefore neither sustainable nor effective. Norway’s engagement policy is anchored in values such as solidarity, human rights, peace and an international legal order that protects the weak and binds the strong. In Norwegian debate, some people believe that we need to focus more on Norwegian interests and less on broader engagement. I believe that this is a false dilemma, because we take worse care of Norwegian interests if we do not show the ability and willingness to engage. A narrow understanding of Norwegian interests is also a poor policy of interest. Modern real policy is about the ability to embrace the breadth of the new global community of which we are part. Let me take two examples to illustrate this and how development is so far away from Norway. First, progress in the Middle East. In a number of areas, political, social and economic developments in the Middle East will directly affect Norway. Almost all countries in the world are affected by the conflicts in this area. They affect the world economy and the wider political climate internationally. But there are also several contexts. The future of the Middle East will have a direct impact on Norway's strategic position. Persistently high uncertainty between Israel and the Palestinians, unrest in the Gulf region, the increasing influence of Iran and the possible spread of the conflict in Iraq could increase global competition for scarce energy resources, strengthen the need to extract resources in the northern regions and therefore significantly affect Norway. Similarly, there is today a long line between tensions in many societies, including in Norway, with regard to religions and cultures and fundamental religious and political conditions in the Middle East. The caricature battle in 2006 is one of these tensions. The feeling of exclusion and recruitment of young European Muslims to radical political groups after 11 September 2001 is another finding. Norway has been successful in not politicising the production and sale of our oil and gas resources. However, we need to ensure that we have the best possible understanding of the political and strategic developments in the centres where important political decisions are taken on the world's energy policy - because important parts of Norwegian business with their experience are now engaged in these countries, because action must include the major oil and gas states, and because it is in Norway's interest to have the places where energy decisions are shaped. That is why we have strengthened our external relations with central oil-producing countries in the Gulf. That is why we set up a Norwegian embassy in Algeria, which, together with Russia and Norway today, are Europe's gas suppliers. We are present in Azerbaijan, and we are now considering securing a new presence in Central Asia. This is, in other words, regions and countries that are central to our core interests. Secondly, Afghanistan: Afghanistan illustrates how close Norway is today to other countries, and how events far away affect us here at home. The ISAF team in Afghanistan is mandated by a UN unanimous Security Council from repeated decisions. ISAF is NATO's main commitment, and NATO is our security anchoring. Our ISAF exposure has an impact on Norway, both directly by the importance of the operation in stabilising Afghanistan and by helping the Afghans gain control of their own country. The operation shall also prevent the re-establishment of international terrorism and shall support the fight against ever-growing opium production. A few years ago, there would be a link between rural development in Afghanistan, mountain areas in Pakistan and the Norwegian community. But today, all of this is at the centre of our own country and of the security challenges of the transatlantic countries. So let's turn another direction-- to the north, a main area of Norwegian involvement. Norway has an open economy, long coastline and large seas and is dependent on a robust, UN-based international legal order. With growing interest in the northernmost sea areas, this is increasing our importance. Contributing to the support and development of the international legal community is therefore a core Norwegian interest. The 22 action points of the Northern Region Strategy of the Government cover a broad field, sea and shore, and in relation to other countries. The implementation of the strategy will be addressed in the Government’s proposals for the government budget for next year, and we will provide an overall overview in spring 2009. The overall management plan for the Barents Sea-Lofoten lays down the environmental framework conditions for the sustainable exploitation of the northern sea areas. The most important external change since the first government introduced the main lines of the Northern Region policy is the rapid meltdown of the police that we are now observing. The latest research results indicate a more rapid meltdown than the fourth main report of the Climate Change Panel. We must work to slow down this development, and climate action must therefore be given priority. This makes it even more important to highlight the importance of the Arctic for both regional and global climate change. Many now focus on increased opportunities for economic activity in petroleum, fisheries and shipping, and on making new ice-free areas available for the exploitation of renewable and non-renewable natural resources. Norway needs to strike the balance between the overall climate objective and the preservation of Norwegian interests in the north. Shorter shipping routes can be opened to Asia and America. In some decades -- perhaps even earlier -- there may be increased pressure for new economic activity in the Arctic. In other words, Norwegian north-eastern politics has an additional dimension and a geographical perspective that extends towards the polar point. It reiterates the importance of the framework of international law, not least specifying the central rules of the law of the sea. The much-mentioned ‘flag plantation’ on the North Pole’s seabed – or where it was now – creates in some people an impression of the Arctic as a legal area. Let us then, with great confidence, state that responsibilities and rights in the Arctic are also governed by the law of the sea. It's not free here. This was a broad consensus when Norway invited the heads of justice from the foreign ministries of the four other Polk Coast States in addition to Norway - i.e. Canada, Denmark, Greenland, the United States and Russia - to a meeting in Oslo on these issues last October. For the same purpose and in the same circle, I attend a conference in Greenland next week, to which I have been invited by the Danish Minister for Foreign Affairs. There, foreign ministers will show agreement on the rules of the Arctic Ocean and on the need to meet the new challenges, so that we can ensure responsible management of the sea area. The basic legal basis is clear, but we need countries to implement concluded agreements. And we need more policies, more systematic policy action, to address all the impacts of climate change in this vulnerable area. An image of developments in the north is that we have gone from facing one major military threat to meeting a pinch of complex risk factors. Nordic policy requires us to understand what is fixed and what is changing. The challenges - including safety - are increasingly linked to climate and environment, energy, fisheries and maritime transport. The traditional military strategic issues remain relevant, but they are no longer dominant. They don't push everything else aside. The relationship with Russia is formerly a major axis of Norwegian north-eastern politics. But the perspective changed after the cold war, and still does. At the same time, two conditions remain constant: firstly, that Norway is a neighbour of a large state with interests and ambitions in our neighbourhoods; and secondly, that this relationship underpins our need for unwavering Euroatlantic security anchoring. At the same time, new Russia appears as a heir to mixed diet from its own complex history. A self-conscious country with high energy revenues is now emerging and is seeking respect as a regional and international actor. In some contexts, this happens through an action pattern we recognize, as by resuming a military practice pattern in our neighbourhoods. This is happening on a broad front and cannot be interpreted as a threat to Norway. But it's a sensitive presence we follow closely. Russian military aviation activity that disrupts civil air traffic in our neighbourhoods, as we experience in the immediate vicinity of the oil installations in the North Sea in December last year, should be unnecessary and not representative of the generally good relationship between our two countries. We're giving this a clear expression. The Russian political system is undergoing a vigorous development. Earlier this month, the country changed president after election -- in itself a historical event -- even though the result seemed to be given in advance when Dimitri Medvedev took over as Vladimir Putin's successor. The political system continues to be critically lacking, inter alia. on freedom of expression and questions relating to the pluralism of the political system. And reports from Chechnya still carry commandments for serious human rights violations. We still have to live with many unanswered questions. Russia is more open and accessible than in previous times. Once again, Europeans are fascinated by the Russian cultural nation. Russia is part of the world economy, but is still not covered by the multilateral framework of rules laid down in the WTO and the OECD, where membership negotiations are ongoing. Corruption and arbitraryness remain prominent. We're going to take President Medvedev seriously when he says that his biggest task is to anchor the rule of law. Norway has experienced a continuous positive development in its bilateral relationship with Russia. Trade is increasing. More than ever, both ways travel. However, in several contexts, Russia appears with varying predictability and can be a demanding partner. It underlines the importance of long-term, firmness and clear Norwegian anchoring in alliances with Euroatlantic partners. We have experienced increased Russian attention to the work against illegal fishing. It's positive. From the Norwegian side, we will continue to prioritise regular presence and frequent control of fishing activity in northern seas under Norwegian jurisdiction. We must be prepared to deal with the various challenges that we have seen may arise. Predictability in our response pattern is important in order to ensure the stability and sustainable use of resources in these areas in the future as well. For the past 15–20 years, Norway has extended the scope of foreign policy action in the northern regions. It provided the basis for Barents' cooperation, for enhanced cross-border contacts between authorities and for broad people-to-people cooperation. Norway is making important experiences that we prioritise developing and sharing with European and Atlantic partners, including our friends in the EU. Our vision must be that the Norwegian-Russian border can become a common European frontier, without unnecessary obstacles to the movement of persons, goods and services. The goal is visa freedom, as formulated in the new visa agreement, even if it's a piece left. The agreement will come into force as soon as it is approved by the Duma, which we hope will happen during the summer. We have mapped and proposed simplifications in the border crossing. We want better service and easier passage, while fulfilling Norway's obligations to control the Schengen border with Russia. We facilitate the possibilities of recruiting Russian labour, as outlined in the report on labour migration. We need to develop visa issuing, border crossing and labour recruitment legislation and practices in such a way as to promote and not hamper economic relations. The development of the Shtokman field and the plans for new mining operations in South Varanger do so, as is much other activity in this region. When I meet my Russian colleague Sergei Lavrov at the border in three weeks' time - one day in the Churches and one day in Murmansk - strengthened border-regional cooperation will be central. We agree with Governor Jevdokimov of Murmansk to look at the possibility of developing so-called twin urban cooperation between the border municipalities of South Varanger and Petsjenga. We will examine whether it is possible to involve Russian authorities in the design of so-called border settlement certificates for the population in the border areas of Norway and Russia. A system of such proof, which is intended to simplify the procedures for cross-border crossing, could be of great importance. In addition, a working group led by the Road Manager of Region Nord and the Deputy Governor of Murmansk are in dialogue on border migration plans. This will also be assessed on our part in the context of the National Transport Plan 2010-2019. Then we must have a comprehensive perspective on the marine ecosystem. We take with us the experience of Norwegian pedestal and the principles of the management plan for cooperation with Russia and the dialogue with Russian authorities. We are now working on projects that help to ensure higher standards of health, environment and safety throughout the Barents Sea, for example. there is a project on the development of such HMS standards for the activities on the base and for shipping in Arctic waters operated by the Norwegian Veritas and financed in the first round by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Knowledge is naved in the Northern Region Strategy. Let me mention one example: several countries - and the EU - are engaged in developing integrated civil surveillance systems for the northern seas, systems to link different databases in order to ensure comprehensive monitoring and alerting. Norway has developed sub-systems for monitoring shipping, fishing fleets, the marine environment and weather. It must be a national task to link them to a comprehensive monitoring and warning system. There will be benefits, but also costs, by linking them together to a whole system. Through the knowledge programme Barents 2020, Sintef has been entrusted with the task of implementing a pilot project for such a system for northern marine areas. We pay particular attention to drawing with the knowledge environments in the north of this work. If such a project is feasible, it can provide us with a unique tool to deal with future developments in northern seas. At the same time, it could be an arena for close cooperation with other countries - such as Russia, Iceland and Denmark. Finally, within the framework of Barents 2020, we will fund a research programme for foreign policy and the North. The programme was announced in February and allocation to an appropriate institution will be made before the summer. The focus of the Nordgebietsbet is thus drawn further northwards. Norway is now head of the Arctic Council and is followed by Denmark and Sweden — i.e. six years of joint Nordic work programme. The Council has placed great emphasis on knowledge and science, in particular related to climate. Work initiated by the Council has made an important contribution to understanding climate change. Arctic Council is a natural body to explore more of the policy we need for the polar region. It requires governments and organisations, inter alia: with significant indigenous population participation, are prepared to set such political agendas. Anchoring a stronger political approach will be central to Norway towards the Ministerial Meeting in Tromsø next spring. Here we are working closely with the Arctic Parliamentary Assembly. Furthermore, we experience increased international interest in Svalbard. We want activity and attention. We also notice that the governments of other countries show greater interest. We then recall that it is citizens and companies which, under the Svalbard Treaty, have rights on the island group, not foreign states as such. Norway continues the long lines of Norwegian svalbard policy. It involves proper compliance with the Svalbard Treaty and compliance monitoring. It involves consistent and firm enforcement of sovereignty, and the preservation of tranquillity and stability in the area. It also means ensuring that Svalbard remains one of the world’s most preserved wilderness areas. We focus on correct, consistent and firm enforcement on the basis of Norwegian law. It provides predictability for all actors and ensures non-discrimination. At the same time, we also need to meet new legislative and administrative needs. Therefore, the Government has taken the initiative to draw up a new sage notification which will be submitted before the end of this large-scale period. Let me pay particular attention to the Nordic dimension. We experience a possible renaissance of Nordic political cooperation. This is due to a coincidence of important developments. Firstly, the Nordic countries are today anchored in wider European cooperation schemes. We are not talking about the Nordics as a defining framework for anchoring in areas such as defence, economics or trade, as was the case at the end of the 1940s and early 1950s. For the five Nordic countries, NATO and/or the EU represent the central anchor parties for foreign and security policy. The EEA Agreement now links the Nordic countries in a common market framework. This ensures a level playing field and the predictability that the Nordics have always wanted. The EEA Agreement is therefore our main Nordic cooperation agreement. Secondly, some of the most innovative regional cooperation has developed precisely in the Nordic region, from the Nordic Council of Ministers to the Barents Cooperation, the Baltic Sea Cooperation and the Arctic Council. Thirdly, a new security policy agenda makes it attractive and relevant for the Nordic countries to seek closer cooperation. Again, not in spite of cooperation in the broader frameworks, such as NATO and the EU, but perhaps more so because of the opportunities it offers. We see that there are new challenges in the north that cannot be automatically referred to the broader frameworks, NATO and the EU, but that should be addressed by the countries that live with and have to deal with the issues I mentioned - climate change and the environment, crime, migration, inclusion, transport, resource management and border region cooperation, to mention something. The five Nordic countries form the nucleus. Our foreign policy consultations are now getting deeper and more relevant. Norway, Sweden and Finland pay particular attention to the main challenges in the far north of the Scandinavian peninsula, including the relationship with the development of North-West Russia. Norway and Denmark are deepening their cooperation on Arctic issues, and together with Denmark and Iceland, we are developing cooperation around the North Atlantic. Interestingly, cooperation at the level of defence is an important driving force in this approach. Finland and Sweden have had such cooperation over time. Now the Norwegian, Swedish and Finnish defence authorities are looking for a room for closer cooperation and integration. This is economically sensible for relatively small defence systems, but it also opens up prospects for more coordination, cooperation and joint participation in operations. The NATO summit in April focuses on the further development of the alliance in relation to security policy challenges. The summit gathered on the need to develop NATO as an organisation and to be able to meet new safety challenges such as information security, energy security and maritime surveillance. In all these contexts, we are now focusing on the safety challenges in NATO's neighbourhoods, including the north. Here we have to be the main spokesman. At the same time, we find that the expansion of the alliance has had a lot of attention since the mid-1990s. This has contributed to an increased focus on other regions of Europe and has been a source of sustained friction with Russia. It is important to remember that each country is free to choose its own alliance, as we did in 1949. Russia has also recognised that. The enlargements of NATO and the EU have given the new Member States stability over a difficult period of development. It's positive. At the summit in Bucuresti, a clear signal was given to Albania and Croatia, and to Macedonia when the name dispute with Greece has been resolved. Furthermore, clear signals were given that the door is open to Ukraine and Georgia. At the same time, it is important to further develop cooperation between NATO and Russia. It requires efforts from both parties. Discussions are ongoing on a possible solution to the dispute around the CFE Agreement, even if there is little visible progress. The development of the US missile defence system is still being discussed with a skeptical Russia, as confirmed by Russian-American talks here in Oslo yesterday. It is of great importance that the 26 members of the Alliance stick to NATO's long tradition of working towards compromise. This capacity for compromise marked the NATO summit in Bucuresti and has contributed to the development of alliance cooperation. Norway has a clear security policy justification for its anchoring in NATO, like many of the new NATO members. At the same time, we have many decades of experience in pragmatic cooperation with our neighbour in the north, and we have had constructive cooperation both bilaterally and regionally with Russia through Barents cooperation in recent years. All of this is the experience of Norway, which stresses the importance of taking with it in NATO and in the work of the NATO-Russia Council. So let me switch perspective and view. I began my presentation on engagement policy, and internationally there is now a debate on the conditions of modern engagement policy. The main points of the debate are: the ability to resolve conflicts and promote development is determined by the ability to use a broad range of instruments and active diplomacy. The use of military power is included in the register of instruments, but will be no more than a complement to a broader approach whereby political, economic, cultural and social conditions are also given importance - not least when the challenges we face are so complex. There is also a debate about the attitude of authoritarian regimes and extreme political movements: are they to be isolated or boycotted, or are they to be engaged, met, with a view to influencing and changing their behaviour? These are demanding balances and dilemmas. In recent weeks, natural disasters in Asia have shown striking differences in China’s and Burma’s crisis management. Burma's rejection of assistance until now has shed a ghastly light on such situations. The humanitarian disaster in Burma again raises the question: how can we influence the country's regime to open up? From the Norwegian side, in the first phase of the disaster, we have concentrated on what could best strengthen the relief work on the ground. We've tried to involve neighbouring countries in the region to use their channels into Burma. The aim is to influence the military regime to open up a foreign emergency aid and to establish a dialogue. In the last few days, there have been signs that the regime is opening the door to joy. We have to take that opportunity. Therefore, State Secretary Raymond Johansen travels to Burma today to attend meetings on the situation in the country and on developments in emergency work. Here, too, the Secretary-General of the United Nations will participate. Travel will hopefully provide an opportunity to get a first-hand impression of the situation in the flooded parts of the country and to connect with the regime. It will always be unacceptable to introduce regimes or groupings that violate established international standards. At the same time, many experiences show that isolation and sanctions can, rather, strengthen the powers and push for more extreme attitudes and policies. It's the dilemma. This discussion is also relevant to the war on terrorism, which was launched on 11 September 2001 following the warlike attacks on the United States and which triggered the legitimate right of the United States to self-defense. Since then, the concept of war has been a dominant paradigm. It has, among other things, helped to change the international debate on how to resolve conflicts and prevent war. And it has reduced the room for engagement policy and the use of political tools in the fight against terrorist acts. Terrorism cannot be accepted or tolerated. Those who commit acts of terrorism must be defeated, arrested and held accountable. Attacks against civilians challenge the fundamental responsibility of any State to protect its citizens. We must have the right to defend ourselves and, if necessary, military means. But there's also a growing recognition that this isn't enough. It needs a broader approach to that. The UN's global strategy against terrorism is precisely focusing on seeing long-term work and combating in the short term in the context - an approach where efforts to strengthen the rule of law are just as important as efforts to prosecute terrorists. Norway contributes to the follow-up of this strategy, both in cooperation with the United Nations, with individual countries and regional organisations. That the military approach to combating terrorism is not enough, we see in Afghanistan. The task of stabilising Afghanistan and ensuring its reconstruction and development cannot be reduced to a military defeat of the rebel groups. They must meet with firmness, also military. But the future of Afghanistan cannot be won militarily. The complex problems of Afghanistan, internally and with neighbouring countries, cannot be resolved as part of the fight against international terrorism, cannot be reduced to that. Progress can only be achieved through a combination of increased safety, development and national reconciliation. President Karzai has repeatedly called for a broad political reconciliation that includes different groups in the country. Such views are now also promoted by parts of the opposition. This will be a central issue in the Afghan elections next year. Reconciliation will not least be important in order to implement the choices. But reconciliation must be the work of the Afghans. The NATO Summit stressed the need for a wide range of instruments for international efforts in Afghanistan. There was agreement to strengthen the role of the United Nations, and that the United Nations should be responsible for coordinating international efforts, as the appointment of Kai Eide also bears the command. Furthermore, a strategic political-military plan for NATO's future involvement was adopted. The plan underlines the need for Afghan ownership, enhanced coordination and regional approach. This is a line that Norway has worked for and that we actively support. A political development plan is now under way to follow up Afghan priorities at the Afghanistan Conference in Paris in June. The challenge of political dialogue arises not least in the face of actors such as political, social and religious groups, because in foreign policy, countries are still main players, and countries are trained to deal with other countries. It is far more demanding to deal with groupings. Several of them, such as the tigers of Sri Lanka, Hamas and Hezbollah in the Middle East, are listed on international terrorist lists and closed off political networks. But does that mean that they are weakened, and that they lose influence and excitement? We must dare to ask those questions. The Middle East gives a number of examples. Norway supported President Abbas of the Palestinians in his efforts to form an assembly government that totaled over 90 p.m. by the groupings of the elected assembly. His approach was that this would engage and oblige Hamas to choose the political path. It would put pressure on the movement and distinguish between moderate and extreme elements. The Palestinians themselves must bear a primary responsibility for the collapse of this assembly government. But international society must also take its share of responsibility. The boikot was maintained. The government was still isolated. Those who took the chance to walk the political path were little to show. Today the situation is even more serious. The Palestinians are divided. Gaza is isolated in a humanitarian crisis. Israel is hit by the missiles of the extremists and responds with military response. Violence that breeds violence strikes civilians on both sides. The tension is rising in Lebanon. Iran's influence is increasing. Negotiations are in progress between Israel and the Palestinians, and they have our active support, but ground frustration is increasing. It will be difficult to ensure peace if the central actors are not held responsible and involved in the political process. The strong US commitment to facilitating a peace settlement is an important contribution to this unbridled and difficult situation. The Americans came late, but they came powerfully. Similarly, Norway supports the important work of the International Quartet Mission, Tony Blair, to provide a basis for increased travel and economic activity in the Palestinian region. Our goal is firm - an end to the occupation, a negotiated peace settlement on the so-called final status issues that can ensure that Israel and a Palestinian state can live side by side in peace, within internationally recognised borders. I believe, however, that we must say it clearly today: the two-state solution is the declared goal of the parties, and it has the support of the world community. But it requires that measurable steps are taken on the way to this goal. If the evolution on the ground continues to go in a negative direction, it puts the vision of the two-state solution at real risk. Finally, efforts for human rights are also in Norway’s interest. Exposure to strengthening human rights is among our most effective means of preventing conflict and promoting development. Only countries that respect fundamental human rights can contribute over time to the stable international legal order served by Norway and other countries. The World Declaration of Human Rights is 60 years this year, and developments in this field must be regarded as one of the main achievements of all international cooperation during these years. Human rights have ensured a central agenda power. Nearly all states today claim to build on respect for universal human rights. There has been the emergence of a rich, highly competent and independent civil society indicting human rights violations. This is well-helped by the media and an information technology that makes the world participative and committed at the same time. Nevertheless, reality is far more demanding. Amnesty International documents serious violations of human rights in a majority of the world’s countries. The language between commitments and realities is striking. Earlier this year, the American think tank Freedom House reported on the first signs since 1994 that democratic values are falling, and that authoritarian regimes are winning. Such developments change the normative climate. It presents us with great challenges, because it is also the case that countries and regions with great human rights challenges are now increasing their influence in the world. This is true of a number of the world's leading energy countries, which are important for Norway because we ourselves are an energy country, and because the participation of these countries is crucial for the success of climate policy. That means that states we should and have to deal with, are at the same time on a crossroads with us in the view of human rights, democracy and political governance. In such meetings we must have a fixed value anchor. We must have a clear voice. We have to have a broad commitment that increases the possibility of influence. We have to be impatient, but at the same time we have to stick to a long-term perspective. Norway is a candidate for the UN Human Rights Council. We know that Norway is likely to belong to the minority in this council on important issues, but there can never be any reason to be absent. Our strategy must be to work to change the relationship of strength and to defend and promote universal principles. It's not Western values. They are the values of humanity and all human rights, as we are given the opportunity to discuss later today. Therefore, it is essential not to fall into short, schematic images that the world is divided into ‘we’ and ‘the others’, or that we stand in a ‘collision between civilizations’. Such simplifications are not suitable for understanding and doing anything about today's complex global reality. Splits and conflicts well occur along political, socio-economic and religious divisions within regions, religions, cultures and nations as between so-called Western and Oriental societies. Only in extreme exceptional cases do we serve human rights or the fight for climate change, poverty reduction or the promotion of peace and development by failing to meet the leaders of other countries. There is not too much contact between anti-interest groups. It's too little. That's why our attitude towards countries like China is that we're looking for dialogue and access, that we're going to use all the channels that our open and interconnected world society gives us for influence. We do that to say about our view of human rights violations and the situation of freedom of expression and freedom of religion - both before, during and after the Olympic Games in August. And that is what we are using these days when we are letting go of humanitarian aid to the hard-tested earthquake regions in China. The social responsibility of the economy is getting more and more attention both to politics and to the business community itself. We see that businesses that are able to focus their activities on good ethical and environmentally sustainable principles can strengthen their market position and competitiveness both at home and outdoors. The social responsibility of industry therefore has an important foreign policy dimension and will be discussed in a separate big business message presented during the year. Our world is struggling with a deficit of political will and the ability to find modern solutions to a wide range of major challenges. There is a lack of political will to implement solutions that are known but demanding. Not least, it concerns the willingness to enable the international governing bodies - with the UN at the centre - to act effectively. In our global age, we face a new generation of challenges, where the known solutions are not enough, and where innovation and new action are needed. An international key challenge has clear similarities from important lessons in our own history. It is about developing political systems for fair burden-sharing. It is about mobilising the power of action resulting from the experience of community, that those who are best placed must bear the heaviest, that before the fight against poverty is won, very little else is important. The world now needs a new deal for world trade. The world economy would need the stimulus of a breakthrough in WTO negotiations. It had also given poor countries the orderly access to markets they need. Whether there is sufficient political will globally to conclude the round is uncertain, but Norway is ready to contribute. The world needs progress in disarmament, arms control and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Now we're working on banning class ammunition, which has unacceptable humanitarian consequences, and we've been working strategically to put nuclear disarmament much higher on the international agenda. The world needs visible progress towards the Copenhagen climate conference next year. Our ability to meet the climate challenges stands and falls with the capacity to renew the multilateral agreement, involve developing countries and find mechanisms that can divide the burden. The world needs more action to meet the challenge of an increasing food crisis, doubling the prices of rice and cereals. There is a great need for humanitarian aid to address the need. Norway has set aside 100 million. kr for this purpose. At the same time, we must work for long-term structural solutions through international cooperation in organisations such as FAO, UNDP, World Bank, OECD and WTO. To conclude, in this statement, I have pointed out that in a modern real policy, we must be able to embrace the scope of the new global community of which we are part. In order to safeguard Norwegian interests, therefore, our commitment must be broad, strategic and value-based.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e442	The foreign minister's statement is published for processing in a future meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e456	Let me first point out that it is a unanimous committee that determines that the Storting has procedures and bodies that ensure the necessary contact between the magnification and government on foreign and security policy issues. With regard to the planned deployment, or deployment, of a missile defence in the Czech Republic and Poland and the consequences it may have for NATO, the Stortinget is continuously briefed and consulted. It has also been made quite clear - both from the Spokesman's Chair and in other bodies in Stortinget - that Norway does not veto the missile defence alliance. It is also clear from the Government’s side which primary position Norway has taken and how it has worked to influence the final document at the summit in Bucuresti. On this basis, I believe that document No. The 8th proposal from the Progress Party was totally unnecessary. Much can be said about the United States' plans for a missile shield in Europe, but it is about a possible bilateral, not trilateral, agreement between Washington on the one hand and the Czech Republic and Poland on the other. In Europe, positions vary. In south-east Europe, concern is expressed that they are not covered by the shield. They want NATO to connect so that they get the same protection as the alliance partners further north. Others express concern over a rocket shield that can trigger a new armament spiral. In the government parties, we have been very clear that we are highly sceptical and opposed to what could lead to a new arms race. We are also very much in doubt as to whether the development of different missile defenses - whether it is in NATO or it is American - leads to increased international security. We also believe that the threatened ballistic missiles represent a wide range of instruments, primarily political and diplomatic. There are probably also many - and the undersigned is one of them - who believe that if Iran, Syria or a terrorist organisation wants to hit Germany, Denmark or, for that matter, Poland, it will happen in completely different ways to long-range ballistic missiles. Today's threats are asymmetric. A suitcase with a "dirty bomb" or bacteriological weapon in the drinking water will be possible threats we face - or for that matter suicide bombers in trains or planes. That's how the Star Wars II program to the United States might also be old-fashioned defence policy. But, of course, we should respect the fact that some European countries feel that missile defence provides them with security. At the NATO Summit, Norway accepted a formulation that the Alliance recognises that the planned US missile defence will contribute to the protection of allies against long-range missiles. It's a description of the facts. NATO has also decided to further investigate how the planned US approach can be linked to any NATO missile defence. No final decision has been taken here. A decision of reality can be far ahead of time, and it can also depend on what kind of administration we get in Washington after the presidential election. That there are shared views in Washington, the Foreign Affairs Committee experienced last week when we were visiting. Of course, we will continue to express what is the Government's primary position, both in NATO and in other organisations. What many of us have feared most, is to get a new armament spiral, and that the possible rocket shield leads to it. We must protect the non-proliferation agreement and the non-proliferation regime. Norway has an important role as leader of the so-called 7 country group. We also have a forthcoming supervisory conference which is becoming extremely important in terms of the non-proliferation agreement. There is reason to commend the Government for a breakthrough in the final communication from the Bucuresti Summit on a stronger NATO effort for disarmament, arms control and non-proliferation. Finally, I record that the Christian People's Party and the Left have not joined the polemic note from the Right and the Advance Party in the setting. The Christian People's Party and the Left have also gone a long way in sharing the scepticism of the Government for the US missile defense, while being clear that they are against veto in NATO. Here the Government and the Christian People's Party and the Left are very close. With this I recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e484	The rapporteur was of the opinion that it was absolutely unnecessary to promote the draft representative on the basis of which this debate was based. At the time of this proposal, it was highly uncertain what would be the conclusion of the NATO Summit - at least for us who were not in government. It was precisely with the background of the uncertainty we wanted to have the opportunity to debate this in Stortinget. Once we know the outcome of the NATO summit, we can say that this proposal had no purpose, but at that time the conclusion was, as said, extremely uncertain. It's a principle of resistance that is enshrined in the Soria Moria Declaration. The rapporteur said that the resistance and the position were established. We have great respect for that. Nevertheless, when you come to reality, and it really says whether to maintain the principles or not at the NATO meeting, you put it aside and get into the fold. That's good. We are now recording that there is full agreement in Stortinget, from SV to the Progress Party; all parties are behind, as we have seen, the wording laid down in the communication from the NATO summit in Bucuresti. We're happy. So we basically don't need to bother the government a lot more about this. We also agree with the representative Nybakk that there is a lot that remains in this matter before this might become a reality. But for Norway at the moment, choosing a line where you sat on the side of what was wanted for the great majority in NATO, we didn't think we were a lucky position for Norway, and we're happy to record that the government has the same position.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e493	As the setting shows, there is a common comment from the Progress Party and the Right, and after Højlund's posts it's not very much to add from my side. I would just like to stress that we also see it as the proposal was put forward at a time when it was necessary to do so, because a wanted position Norway would take in the negotiations in Bucuresti. We agree with the Progress Party that it was necessary to ensure that Norway would be an active participant in the further work of our main security alliance also in this field. Fortunately, the time has now run from the proposal itself, because of the outcome in Bucuresti, where NATO came an important step further and the government luckily got together to take the necessary step forward also from the Norwegian side. We are well pleased with that, and we think it is deserving that the Government gave its unreserved support to the communication, which we believe is so clear and important in the wording that we have included it as a quote in the comment in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e500	Firstly, I would like to commend the rapporteur for a very good report. After all, it would be unnecessary after her posts to state that the government has not set aside what the Soria Moria statement says about the rocket shield. On the contrary, the Government's principal position is shown in the setting. It's also that no final decision has been made on the rocket shield, nor in NATO. At several NATO meetings, both the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs have argued against the rocket shielding plans, including: because it may result in increased upgrading. They must have great praise for that. A lot of people join this argument. As the rapporteur pointed out, the Committee met with, among others: the chairman of a sub-committee under what may correspond to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee here in Norway, namely the Committee responsible for national security and foreign affairs. The head of this committee, John Tierney, had organized a lot of hearings in which many experts were called. Anyone who reads the minutes from these hearings will understand that there is no clear explanation in the United States about the rocket shielding plans either. A lot of questions are being asked. If there's something the world doesn't need today in the SV's opinion, it's a new nuclear recovery spiral. One would rather need new nuclear disarmament measures, which the Foreign Minister also mentioned in his speech. SV is against the US rocket shielding plans, and will therefore work to ensure that the plans for a merger between NATO's short- and medium-range missile defense and the American rocket shield for long-range rockets do not become a reality. As others have said, The rapporteur and I also in the past did not decide on such a connection at the Bucuresti Summit in NATO. So there's a very uncertain moment here, for example. who shall be in charge of such a shield. We believe that in this context it is not particularly wise to provoke Russia. The U.S. missile shield plan and any link with NATO's Europe-based missile defence will mean just that. Several are trying to minimize Russia's vision. But if Russia perceives that placing this rocket shield right at their borders is a problem, yes, it's a problem. This was also a clear view that emerged at a NUPI seminar that I attended. A lot of people think that rocket shields, whether they're here or there, don't help to strengthen our global collective security, rather the opposite. That's what has to be some of the main points here. The rocket shielding plans, in our view, involve an unreasonable waste of resources and opportunities. There is also something that has emerged in the hearings of Congress in the United States. There are a number of those who ask themselves whether there is a proper use of resources when the challenges are greater in other areas, including: Whether it's right to spend 9-10 billion dollars a year on the missile shield program when there are of course many other security threats. And I will continue: when climate change and the need for non-polluting energy forms are the major challenge in the world, is it right to spend 85 times more on military research and development, as the missile shield plans are, than on renewable energy? We think it's right to stand behind these important objections. It's like Nobel Prize winner Mohamed ElBaradei said at a disarmament conference that was organized here in Oslo this spring: A rocket shield intended to protect Europe or the United States means building a wall around the Middle East, a region that needs completely different solutions. The rapporteur was also concerned that today's threats are asymmetric, and then we have to assume that there must be measures against them. The NATO declaration of the Bucuresti Summit in April is often presented - even here - as if this were to give unconditional support to the plans of the United States. That's not true. When it comes to the problem, when a reader reads reports from the U.S., or the newspapers, the U.S. administration doesn't think it's like that either. The statement indicates that the rocket shield can only be part of NATO’s response to the threat. These wordings recognise the importance of safety measures other than rocket shield deployment. The Norwegian Government will have a lot of the money for that. It's precisely this room that gives the possibility that these decisions can be ironed out. Strengthening disarmament agreements as a means of preventing rocket attacks against NATO is a great principle. One example is that we can strengthen the INF agreement, which has contributed to the disarmament of 80 pst. the mid-range missiles of the United States and Russia. The statement just referred to it. Work on strengthening the INF Agreement can also be included as a means of meeting the increasing threat of rockets described in the declaration. The same applies to the CFE and the Non-Proliferation Agreement, which we believe are important agreements that we have to take care of and fence around. SV is pleased that the government has influenced NATO's position in the matter, and that the Norwegian criticism of the rocket shield is firm. This creates a space for everyone, even in civil society, who will mobilize against the rocket shield in time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e517	I will be very brief and say that it is good with a cumulative setting in this area. I just want to make a comment on the political picture. I think the interesting thing here is that the Right and Advance Party have positioned themselves in one position and the other parties in another regarding the reasoning. And what was said by the representative of Vallersnes, that Norway had given unreserved support to the communication, yes, that's some of the approach of the two parties, that's the idea that this is what the United States has decided, and it gets our unreserved support. We gave unreserved support to a communication we had actively participated in influencing, because we are a member of NATO, because we take positions, have critical remarks, cooperate with other countries, address questions - that get to what becomes a whole. Let's say it like this: every country, including the United States, provided unreserved support for that communication. Here, then, it is NATO's strong role in building compromises, as I also said in my presentation, that has won. But the total lack of critical reflections from the Right and the Advance Party on nuclear disarmament, on the missile defence plans and on the European reality seems to me to be striking in such an important and central theme of European security policy debate. But it is good that there is full agreement that this proposal no longer has any relevance or topicality.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e526	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 3277]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e542	I will not spend a long time, just attach a few comments to the vote, which is unanimous. The OSCE Parliamentary Assembly shall contribute to interparliamentary dialogue and cooperation in the OSCE region, in addition to promoting the development of democratic institutions. What attracted the most attention in the media in 2007 was participants from the OSCE and the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, ODIHR, in election observations. Restrictions by the Russian authorities on the observation of the Duma elections led to conflict, which resulted in the election observation being carried out only by the Parliamentary Assembly and not by the ODIHR. Norwegian efforts in 2007 have been significantly targeted at Central Asia. The Norwegian Parliamentary Delegation has been on a study trip to Kyrgyzstan and has been hosted by Norway for a conference on regional themes, energy and environmental issues, in which parliamentarians from Central Asian countries were met in cooperation with the Nordic Council. Finally, I would like to stress that a unanimous committee expresses satisfaction that the role and relevance of the organisation is under constant debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e553	I have nothing to say about what the rapporteur said, but as Head of Delegation, I would just like to make a few comments to the OSCE organisation and the role of the Parliamentary Assembly. The OSCE has been in a demanding role in trying to find its place in the last few years, as I have experienced it. The relationship between Russia, on the one hand, and the United States and the other, on the other hand, is very appealing, and this is expressed in a number of ways. We experience it, for example. now in the tense situation in Georgia. This is a strenuous relationship. The Parliamentary Assembly has been an area where the dialogue may have been better. In this way, the Parliamentary Assembly plays a role, not least I experience it in relations with Russia, Belarus and others who like to feel that the OSCE does not treat them fairly. I think we'll take care of it and use it actively. Without going into the Foreign Minister's presentation today, we shall debate it thoroughly on Thursday: in principle, I do not disagree when the Foreign Minister draws up the need for dialogue - and he talked about more dialogue. Dialogue can take place at the highest level, between heads of state, between foreign ministers, but it can also take place between other politicians, parliamentarians, and at lower levels. This Parliamentary Assembly is an area in which such dialogue can take place where it may not take place equally well between Heads of State. That is why I see the Parliamentary Assembly as a useful place for dialogue, even though the results of such parliamentary meetings are often not in line with the ambitions and wishes we have, perhaps particularly from Norway and, for example, Norway. Nordic side. I hope that at another time we can come back to a discussion about the OSCE as an organisation, because there I think we are facing significant challenges. The OSCE needs to find its place in 2008 and today has significant challenges as an organisation. It worries me. I mentioned Georgia. We need to find ways to deal with it, and the OSCE can be an organisation that is relevant in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e567	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 3277]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e583	Quite briefly from me as case rapporteur: It is a unanimous committee that considers the annual report of the European Parliament’s delegation to the 2007 Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to be a convincing expression of the continued importance of the Council of Europe in promoting cooperation, democracy and human rights. The activities of the Parliamentary Assembly also demonstrate the importance of this forum for debate and consensus building on difficult issues. The Committee takes into account the briefing of the report on the various activities, themes and debates that have been on the agenda for 2007 and pays particular attention to the importance of continuing the focus on the activities of the Commissioner for Human Rights, and in particular the independence of the Commissioner. There are, of course, themes that are eagerly awaited for the continuation of the current year, not least the question of ratification by Russia on Protocol 14.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e597	I would just like to make a few comments on the situation around the European Court of Human Rights, the growing number of cases and the alarming need for its renewal. An important tool for putting in place a much more effective and rapid procedure at the Court of Justice is the measures set out in Protocol 14. The problem is that all the countries of the Council of Europe, with the exception of Russia, have ratified it. Implementation requires unanimity, and Russia’s lack of ratification leads to an accumulation of cases before the Court and thus to a totally unsustainable situation. The Council of Europe Committee on Legal Affairs and Human Rights has had a major focus on this issue over a long period of time - unfortunately without any significant breakthrough. At our committee meeting in Paris on 2 June, we have therefore invited the head of the Justice and Constitution Committee of the Russian Duma, Pavel Krascheninnikov, to talks about this issue. The situation is both serious and unsustainable and cannot be maintained. I would therefore recommend that both the Foreign Minister and others in contact with the Russian authorities use their influence to influence the speedy ratification of the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e604	As head of the Norwegian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I would like to accede to what the last speaker said, because perhaps the most important institution in Strasbourg is just linked to the Human Rights Court. I would also like to point out that it is a court whose decisions the Russian government actually respects and follows up. There have been some such things as 20 judges, largely linked to Chechenia abuses, which have gone in the disfavor of the Russian government, but which have been respected, and where, among other things. compensation has been paid. It is important that this court function. In Russian opinion, and perhaps primarily in the Duma, one has an impression that is not correct, that this court is specifically after Russia. That argument was used in the debate in the Duma. The statistics show something quite different. Not least Western countries are the subject of a leading judge in the Human Rights Court. That also applies to our own country. But, as the last speaker said, it's now a bunch of things. There has been a huge reform process, and it is now only on one single country's ratification of Protocol 14, as it is called, and it is precisely Russia. It is right to say that former President Putin did not make any special commitment to persuade his own majority group in the Duma to vote in favour of ratification, and that no initiative has been taken from the leadership thereafter to have the matter re-examined. In a speech to the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly in April, Chancellor Merkel raised this issue and pointed to Russia's responsibility for just getting the reform process back on track. I would therefore recommend to the Minister for Foreign Affairs to use the channels that Norway has, not least personal contacts, with Russian politicians to underline this, because it is important for the development of human rights in Europe that the Court of Justice regains an efficiency that will enable it to actually function.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e615	I just want to join in the last two speeches, which pointed out the meaning of the court. It is absolutely right that this is a very important intervention we have with Russia. Russia is a member of the Council of Europe and has ratified the central conventions, and it is a channel for us. It is such that the Russian Foreign Minister has told me that you judge, we pay. It's a follow-up to what Foss says, that they actually respect the judgments that have been, and that it's one of the most important channels, especially in Chechenia-Kaukasus cases, where it has been possible to apply. In this context, I would like to mention that Norway has provided specific financial support to a fund that will help to reduce the amount of the case and the great weight of this court institution. During the visit of the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe to Oslo a few weeks ago, this was a central issue, and we are trying to get other countries to join in. So this is a view we share, and I'm going to take the opportunity in the coming meeting with Russian government representatives to address just this with the ratification of this particular article.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e624	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3277]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e640	It is the case that the rapporteur is due today, but there is also only a very short and unanimous opinion from the Committee, so it should be simple. As a delegation leader, I would like to link a few comments to the work last year, insofar as we see this run further into the year's work. IPU is in many ways a forum for the schooling of states that are new democracies, or where democracy is developing, and as such it is one of the factors behind the Committee's emphasis on the importance of IPU as a global forum for parliamentary dialogue and to promote peace and cooperation and support the development of representative democracy. A prominent feature last year, and which continues even more clearly this year in the work of the IPU, is the cooperation that you have begun with the UN, where you agree to see whether you can develop a U.N. parliamentary forum under the auspices of the IPU. That work is in progress. It is chaired by a working group where the Norwegian delegation is represented and where the undersigned has been a rapporteur so far. Cooperation with the UN and involvement of parliaments in this context take several paths. One has been involved in the reform of the UN at country level, i.e. One UN that Country Level, in implementing part of the initiatives through the Peacebuilding Commission and now also recently through the UN ECOSOC initiative for a Development Forum, where one will also have a so-called Steakholder’s Forum in the form of a dozen parliamentarians from a blend of developing and donor countries. Some of this is intended to involve parliaments in the processes of some of these countries, to see if Parliament in the country concerned can assist and strengthen the work/processes of the United Nations in implementing, whether there are country-level UN reforms, or whether there is development or ‘peacebuilding’. It's exciting work, where, for my part, I've been a little skeptical as to whether IPU is operational and focused enough to take the task. But at least we're contributing as much as we can to trying to do it this way. The second thing I want to point out is that there is a restructuring of routine work in the IPU, until what you can call a thematic reinforcement. It's like IPU has two main conferences this year, one about the harvest in Geneva and one in a slightly larger format about spring somewhere in the world. What you have carried out this year is that one in the autumn runs a number of hearings/debates on topics that are then addressed to the full process and resolution process in the spring session. I say this because there have been new demands for the delegation's work and perhaps eventually also for composition. There is a mixture of a need to have someone in the delegation that represents continuity, and that contributes - let's say - in long-term processes within the organisation, and an increased need to change a little on who is participating, depending on the themes that are up every year. When I mention it now, it's because there's something you might have to consider in future peak periods when a nominee new delegations. Perhaps a mix of permanent representatives and a flexible way of supplementing it with representatives who have worked on the issues in question in our own deliberations. I think Norway can be more involved in the outcome of IPU's work on the ongoing issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e659	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3277]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e675	Let me first underline the importance of parliamentary assemblies linked to organisations such as NATO, the OSCE and the Council of Europe. Parliamentarians may be critical, may be in the forefront, and may be important supporters of the organisation's policies towards its own national assemblies. The objective of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly is to promote the objectives of the Alliance and to contribute to wider debate and transparency on NATO's policies and priorities. The NATO Parliamentary Assembly adopts recommendations to the Council of NATO and to governments and parliaments. I think it is important that matters on NATO's agenda are debated as widely as that Parliamentary Assembly puts forward. NATO's priorities must also have a parliamentary foundation. The comprehensive activities of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly provide an opportunity to strengthen Storting's contact with colleagues on both sides of the Atlantic in dialogue on defence and security policy issues, which we very much appreciate. An important meeting place is the annual transatlantic forum held at the beginning of December each year at the National Defense University in Washington. Last December, five of the Norwegian members took part in the meeting at the Transatlantic Forum, which gave us a lot, and which had a very high quality. So, of course, the issues that have been the focus of the period have been focused on the themes of the summit in Bucuresti. Of course, the status of Macedonia, Croatia and Albania was central. It also did the status of the Western Balkans in total. There is no need to conceal the disagreement between Ukraine and Georgia on how quickly the two countries can be included in the alliance. NATO PA has consistently stated that the ISAF operation in Afghanistan is priority No. 1st@item: inlistbox But there was also a debate on the relationship between civil and military aid to the country. Here Norway has reason to be particularly satisfied with the appointment of Kai Eide as UN work coordinator in Afghanistan. The importance of his job can best be illustrated by his recent talks in Washington with President George W. Bush, Minister of Foreign Affairs Rice and the Minister of Defence. When the Americans left the Keflavik base at short notice, more from the Norwegian delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly took up this matter. We underlined the Norwegian position that if Iceland wanted it, we would support a NATO presence to replace the Americans. Last year both Norway and Denmark submitted a MoU with Iceland on defence policy cooperation. In general, this was a matter of social security and civil protection, including: by our coastguard and rescue helicopter service. A few weeks ago, NATO took responsibility for allied presence in Iceland. France put 150 men and four fighter planes at the disposal to monitor Iceland's coastal areas. On May 5th, French Mirage planes went for the first time on the wings of the Keflavik base, in an escalated NATO action to show muscles to Russian bombers who have patrolled the area. So for the first time, it's different than Americans who run regular air patrols across Iceland. I would like to end by stressing that for me the follow-up to Security Council Resolution 1325 is also important. It has been a topic during this period for the first time, focusing on the following themes: violence against women in war, women's participation in peace negotiations, the need for women soldiers in international peace operations and the role of women in security policy decision-making processes. It is only a shame that so far these themes have been banished to so-called ‘page events’. It is important, I think, that they are gradually integrated into one or more committees in the House, which is now also an agreement to do. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the Committee's comment that the NATO Parliamentary Assembly is still very much dominated by human beings. All in the presidency and all committee leaders are men. It seems to be some kind of self-enhancing recruitment. This, of course, is a challenge. Of course, security and defence policy has traditionally been very man-dominated, but it is important, not least in the light of Security Council Resolution 1325, that more women also participate in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, including in trust and as rapporteurs. With this I recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e698	The rapporteur has now presented an excellent report on the work and importance of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, so some major challenges are no longer there. What has been presented to the Stortinget can also be read about and found out has been well preserved through the committee treatment. With regard to the last thing that Marit Nybakk said, about the role and entry of women into Parliamentary assembly, I can, of course, only stress it, but I am sure and confident that Marit Nybakk will take care of it carefully, so I don't have to go into it any further. Otherwise, this House, like most other international parliamentary assemblies, is important, in our view, in such a way that, through NATO, we can link relations with our partners from other countries. The debates we have in this House on that basis are very important. The Assembly also, like other assemblies that you can compare with, takes on board the elementary things that have been mentioned here and that several people are coming back to as we participate in election observations. What is, of course, also being discussed at a high level here are NATO ISAF operations in Afghanistan. The relationship with Russia is a matter of its own. This, of course, applies to what has also been discussed earlier here today, to strategic missile shields. There are highly ranked issues in the assembly that we think it is very important to talk about. With regard to the Norwegian representatives, I would like to mention that the representative Sverre Myrli had a report on the Adriatic candidate countries Croatia, Albania and Macedonia and their willingness to implement the Membership Action Plan. It was well received at the harvest session in Reykjavik. On the basis of the report, the Assembly assumed that the preconditions for initiating concrete membership negotiations after the summit in Bucuresti would be present. The need for a new NATO strategic concept led the Assembly to decide during the autumn session to start work on a report on this up to the 60th anniversary of the Alliance next year, i.e. in 2009. Mr Jan Petersen has been elected rapporteur for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e711	I just want to make some comments on the work being done in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. As everyone knows, there are often plenary collections. Equally important and equally interesting may be the work done in the committees. In addition to what has been said very well by the rapporteur and others, I do not think that solidarity between the Member States is a recurring issue, of course with Afghanistan as a backbone. In the period I've been in, there's been a topic that's come up stronger and stronger. Otherwise, from a country far north, it must be allowed to observe that, within the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, the centre of gravity is increasingly moving south and east, both in terms of current issues, and the debates that come after speeches and lectures. I would also like to say that what is positive is that in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly there are a large number of countries participating as observers and associated members. You can see, for example: a country in which Sweden participates to a much greater extent now than before, not least because there are increasing points of contact between the EU and NATO as a result of increased military cooperation. There's a reason to focus on that. Russia often participates in greater delegations than any of the Member States. I just have to say that for each session you experience a country that is more self-conscious, both politically, economically and militarily. Finally, when Marit Nybakk lifted the commitment to a better gender representation in the assembly, I give it my full and full support. I guess the challenge is not Marit Nybakk's commitment. It is that it must be shared by far more and be lifted in the respective Member States. I think you lose a dimension by as weak a female representation as it actually is in this assembly.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e726	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3277]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e742	The main task of the Western European Union Parliamentary Assembly is to follow up EU security and defence policy. More specifically, the Assembly draws up reports and adopts recommendations and opinions on defence and security policy issues. The Assembly is also a formal link between the EU and NATO. As associated members, the five Norwegian representatives participate fully in the assembly, but they do not have the right to vote in plenary. During 2007, the Assembly examined reports on a number of defence and security-related issues. I want to take the opportunity to praise the Norwegian delegation for focusing particularly on the north. This includes the fact that the Head of Delegation Odd Einar Dørum was co-rapporteur for the ‘Security in the High North’ report. It was presented during the spring session in June 2007 and adopted without modification. The report discusses the safety challenges in the north, including: in the light of growing energy needs and accelerating climate change. Norway was also the host of a VEU seminar on the northern areas that took place at Svalbard in May 2007. These measures are of great importance for understanding and drawing the attention of other countries to opportunities and challenges in our northern regions. Finally, I would like to mention that although the VEU Council is in practice no longer meeting at ministerial level, but at the level of office, the VEU is still actively being used by a number of countries. As a non-EU member, the VEU is not least significant for Norway. This is expected to be part of the notified evaluation of Storting’s participation in interparliamentary forums. The Committee hereby submits a unanimous opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e753	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3277]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e769	This is a delegation where Norway has the unusual position that we are, in a sense, a major act. It gives you an extra obligation, but it also gives you an opportunity. The delegation has two roles. One is the purely EFTA role in which we are the Grand Act. The second is that the delegation also participates in dialogue with the European Parliament. That has been the subject of this House in previous debates, not least the growing importance of the European Parliament for us and the active involvement of the European Parliament. This delegation is doing it, and it's been doing it for years. My knowledge of the delegation is that this has become an increasingly important work, and it has become more systematized. My impression is that the Norwegian delegation is taking this to heart, and there are relevant policy issues on the agenda of the dialogue between EFTA parliamentarians and European parliamentarians. Not least the Minister for Foreign Affairs knows how demanding it can be to get European parliamentarians interested in our challenges. But it's not completely impossible, and you can see that there are people who are interested, that we can get hold of, and that we can play on. This is not least related to the importance of the northern regions, and it is very related to climate and other things. We also become very relevant to them, and this relevance also plays into the work done. So I want to make a blow to the importance of this delegation - the importance of the fact that we who are at Stortinget, in different positions, can make representations to our members in the delegation on important issues that are taking place in an EU/EEA context, so that this can be put on the agenda here. The second important pillar is the pure EFTA pillar and the work of the delegation to try to promote the work on free trade agreements. The delegation had a trip to Canada. If it was crucial, it should not be said, but it did not at all contribute to the fact that we also got this agreement with Canada that we have worked with for a long time. I know that the delegation -- at least parts of it -- has recently been in India. It thus contributes to the inclusion of the important country on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e780	When the Joint Parliamentary Committee between the three EFTA countries in the EEA and the European Parliament examines the annual report for the EEA, it has been a firm conclusion that the EEA Agreement is working well. Next year, this agreement has ensured equal treatment for Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein in the internal market for 15 years, with the exception of agricultural products and fish. The problems we have had with salmon exports to Europe are a good illustration of how important the EEA Agreement has been to all other industries and how vulnerable we are to the export market if our companies are not covered by a common regulatory framework. However, 2007 was a year when cooperation with the EU in the EEA was subject to pressure. One reason was that it took longer than expected to agree on the EFTA countries’ contribution to Romania and Bulgaria after their entry into the EU. This led to delays in several of the programmes in which we also participate, and the programme period was renewed last year. It is therefore important that negotiations between EFTA and the EU on our possible contribution to the regional development funds after 2009 do not lead to problems for the EEA Agreement next year. There will be demanding negotiations. All signals indicate that there are expectations of a significant increase in contributions from EU countries. In addition, it is clear that Greece, Portugal and Spain continue to expect contributions. In the Joint Parliamentary Committee last year, we started to assess the future of the EEA Agreement in the light of the dynamic development of EU cooperation over the last 15 years and the changes that the Treaty of Lisbon will bring about in terms of the structure of EU cooperation. At our recent meeting in Iceland, it was agreed that a political and legal analysis of how the Treaty of Lisbon would affect EU cooperation and thus our ability to safeguard our interests through the EEA Agreement should be developed. The Minister of Foreign Affairs recently addressed this issue in his EU/EEA statement here in the United Kingdom. This is a problem we must continue to work on, also because it is obviously not possible today to know fully how the dynamics of the changes brought about by the Liboa Treaty will work. I think it will lead to a new dynamic of EU cooperation, not least because the pillar structure is being lost. It is one of the elements that will make it more demanding to draw the border between what will be within or outside the EEA Agreement. The experience since 1994 is that we want to connect to EU cooperation, even where it is located in the border countries of the EEA Agreement, no matter what government we have had. This development, that we are increasingly integrated into EU cooperation, will reinforce the democratic deficit of the EEA Agreement. In all three EFTA countries, parliaments are committed to strengthening contact with the European Parliament and bringing Parliament closer to work on the EEA issues. Active European policy is also on the agenda for Iceland and Liechtenstein. How active European policy will be is much up to us in this Chamber. If we do not follow up on the opportunities now provided, there will be no active European policy at parliamentary level. The vast majority of the committees must take into account the fact that the policies we pursue from this house have some strong links with the policy design of EU cooperation. That is why we must use time and effort to follow the work of the Commission, the Council and the European Parliament. The fact that there is also an active debate in Iceland as to whether the EEA Agreement is sufficient to safeguard Iceland’s financial interests as the evolution of the Icelandic krona price has been is also a factor in changing the EEA’s territorial functioning when the 15th year marker is passed next year. Like the Members of Everything and the Parliament of Vaduz, we are committed to strengthening our attention to the policies developed in the EU. This may not be the same attention to the EEA Agreement in the European Parliament. Last year, the EEA Committee in the European Parliament changed its chair. Diana Wallis, who has had a strong commitment to the three EEA members for many years, was replaced by Byliana Raeva from Bulgaria. The commitment of the President will probably continue, but the opening up of our meetings by the Members of the European Parliament does not reflect the number of seats they have in the Joint Committee, as the rapporteur was also involved in his statement. It is a sign that our efforts against the European Parliament must be reinforced, both by the Grand Duchy, by the party groups and also by the Government. With the Treaty of Lisbon in place, Parliament will be as important in the decision-making process as the Council. All indications are that the political drive in Parliament's handling of matters is to strengthen the European perspective and to strengthen the position of EU citizens, for example. consumer policy. The European Parliament will become a more important arena in the development of the European cooperation project in the coming years, thereby also becoming a more important arena in the development of Norwegian policy in the coming years. Finally, with regard to the second task of the EFTA Committee, such as the Committee on Free Trade Policy, let me just say briefly that we were visiting India in April. Our delegation met with two of the committees in the Indian Parliament, with the Ministry of Trade and with two of the country's trade organisations. India is an important country. It is the second world's richest, and it has, unlike China, a young population. That's why it's going to have a big impact on the world economy in a few decades. The signals we received were that there is a great interest in India in a trade and investment agreement with EFTA, and that negotiations can start before summer and end within 12 months. If this is followed, we are likely to be in the forefront of the EU countries' work on free trade agreements for once, for EFTA policy is also in the EU's tracks in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e816	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 3277]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e834	With today's interpellation, I want to focus on the Human Rights Council and get a discussion on what Norway will contribute to the Council if we are to be elected as a member. The Human Rights Council replaced the Human Rights Commission. There were many who thought that the Commission had played down and only contributed to weakening the UN's reputation in the field of human rights. The Council would be something else: a new start, something more effective and something better. When the Minister for Foreign Affairs launched Norway’s candidacy for a place in the Council in the period 2009-2012, he stated that a good legal framework is already in place. I am uncertain whether there is any reason to go as far as the Minister for Foreign Affairs did in his speech. One problem is that there are no formal requirements for the States to sit in the Council. The UN Member States are properly instructed to take account of the human rights situation of a candidate country when voting, but it has not prevented countries such as China, Cuba and Saudi Arabia from becoming members, to name a few. Only a general majority is required to be elected, while a two-thirds majority is required to be suspended by the Council. And even if the Council is to have a regular review of the status of all countries in the field of human rights, there is nothing in the way that a country facing serious violations can be allowed to continue. The previous Commission had 53 members. The Council has received 47. So it's kind of the same thing. This, of course, opens up so that many countries with dubious regimes can have a place. Specialisations may be convened by only one third of the members. This was justified by the possibility of more urgent issues on the agenda. The critics thought this would open up to political abuse, and it has been shown that the Council has had a particular interest in organising special sessions on Israel. Apart from the fact that there has been some attention to Darfur, one can easily believe that the only place where human rights are seriously violated is in Israel, and that the only people who violate are Israel. In these days, the Council is meeting again, and the food crisis is on the agenda. It's a crisis that really deserves a lot of attention. In fact, there are many UN organisations that have that issue high on their agenda, but I assume that it is good, and as a starting point, the Human Rights Council is also making its contribution. There was a request to put the regime in Burma and their handling of the cyclone on the agenda, but it has been rejected - as far as I know, with the reason that you did not have time to discuss this particular issue. Then I'm disappointed, stated, and I'm just wondering if the council has the function it should have, and whether the council makes any difference. And if it makes any difference, does it really make a positive difference? The old Human Rights Commission was even depreciated by former Secretary-General Kofi Annan in 2005. My clear impression was that the Commission was a burden to the United Nations, and that it did nothing for human rights. The task now has to be to ensure that the new Council does not end up in the same position. It is certainly far too early to draw any final conclusion on what has become of the Council. Until then, the working period has been too short. Nevertheless, it may be right to be on guard from the outset, to contribute to the Council not becoming a copy of the predecessor, and to focus universal human rights on a credible way. The Council's first year of life has not lived up to my expectations. Ten country-specific resolutions were promoted. Eight condemn Israel, two have a careful criticism of Sudan. Now I'm not going to go into the debate about whether it's right to criticize Israel or Sudan, my starting point is that everyone who deserves criticism is going to get criticism. The defence of human rights is equally important in all countries. But one can carefully wonder why the council has jumped over many other countries. I'm not going to draw up such a list, but when the majority of Council members themselves are not democracies, and in several cases are themselves accused by organizations like Amnesty and Human Rights Watch of gross abuse, it might be easier to understand why some countries are getting away with it, while others get a huge pressure. Once again, I would like to stress that I do not draw the Council's right to criticise Israel in doubt. They, like Norway, like the United States, like Cuba and like Saudi Arabia, deserve the attention of the Council. But if they deserve almost all the attention, I'm doubtful about it. Now you can hope and believe that this will change, and in a sense it must do so when you start taking care of every country. While all countries should have equal rights and obligations, it is not that all countries are equal in relation to human rights. I allow myself to think carefully that the situation in Sweden and Burma is very different, and that they deserve different attention. When the Council adopted its working rules, the list of countries in which the development of human rights is to be monitored was particularly closely. In this respect, the Council chose to delete Cuba and Belarus from its list. This was perhaps not the most proud moment in the Council either. With regard to the human rights themselves, those whom the Council is set to defend, one would think that there was no basis for change, at least not that one would be able to restrict the rights, but that has also happened. Freedom of expression is restricted by the Council's blessing. Criticism of religion can no longer be defended as an expression to which you have the right. This restriction came as a result of the Muhammad caricatures. It is obvious that this episode caused many wounds, nor is it surprising that some Islamic states are going as far as promoting such a resolution. But to get this kind of restriction in one of the fundamental rights adopted is -- and now I will choose to quote my party president -- shocking! If you agree that the Council is not working well enough, there are at least two possibilities. One is to go into the council and improve it from the inside. Canada is doing this. Now you might not be able to say that they have succeeded, but they're trying. The second possibility is that you don't have to participate. The United States does that, and has chosen to isolate itself, even though they have an observer status. I want to have a discussion with this debate about what Norway should do. Now the government's view is that we're going to try to get into the council, and that might be a good strategy. But then I'm looking for how we're going to work in the council, and I guess you've followed, for example. Canada's role. According to the Human Rights Watch organization, Canada is among the best to support initiatives that promote human rights, marking a distance from resolutions that weaken them. It might be interesting to know if this is such a role Norway will play. I noted that the Minister of Foreign Affairs, in his statement, acknowledged that Norway would probably belong to a minority in the Council - the Minister of Foreign Affairs would probably be able to elaborate further. As I said, if the advice is to be what we had expectations that it could be, some changes have to be made. I hope that the Foreign Minister can help clarify what Norway's position will be, and that it will not only accept what may be the Council's rules of play today, but actively contribute to promoting changes that enable the Council to function in a more optimal way. For today’s situation is not satisfactory.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e872	I would like to thank the representative, Mr Høglund, for giving me the opportunity to present more closely the government's work on strengthening the UN human rights machinery. The representative assumes in his interpellation that the UN Human Rights Council has become a body in which the world's worst regimes can block attempts to put the spotlight on abuse in their own country and at the same time criticise others. The UN is not meant to be a union for like-minded people. In the United Nations, all the world's states are represented, democracies are like dictatorships, those who are close to us, and those who are politically and culturally away from Norway. This is the weakness of the United Nations, but it is indeed the strength of the United Nations, not least in the field of human rights, where the accountability of states is a major challenge. I will honestly admit that it is not always easy to work towards international goals through the UN system. That is why the United Nations system is not the only mechanism we have to influence states and contribute to their respect for human rights. However, we do not exclude the importance of the UN, not least for a country such as Norway, which cannot rely on the strongest law, but depends on clear international driving rules. It is in the year 60 years since the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Let me remind the representative that it was in the MR Commission under the leadership of U.N. Ambassador Eleanor Roosevelt that the World Declaration was negotiated. On the basis of this declaration, the MR Commission developed international human rights legislation. This normative work cannot be overestimated. The conventions on civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights, the Torture Convention, the Children's Convention, the Women's Convention and the Racial Discrimination Convention have provided people throughout the world with a legally binding basis for the accountability of their authorities. This is what I mean when I say that the legal basis is clear. It's also a reminder of where it's developed, namely in the MR Commission. I am convinced that these conventions have helped to make life better for millions of people around the world. Then I will give the representative, Mr Höglund, the right to say that the MR Commission was at times emboldened by the imprudence and lack of openness about the Commission's mandate. But does this give us reason not to contribute to change? And the representative points to two strategies: go in and try to influence, or not -- but it's a legitimate question. Who would win, however, at that we withdrew and did not participate in the UN's own body for the protection of human rights? What kind of signal would that be? One thing is certain: the losers would first of all be those who need this protection, I believe. Then we can be frustrated by the lack of efficiency and that work does not go as fast as we would like. Sometimes we are, and with good reason. But it is in the nature of the matter that the work on human rights is politically sensitive. In the human rights regime, it is states that are outlaws, and it is states that have obligations to protect against abuse. This is the core of the challenge. It is the same countries that are all-overs who are also responsible for ensuring protection. What does this mean? This means that we can't expect countries that violate human rights on the ground to be drivers to strengthen international surveillance. This also means that we cannot expect to be able to organize ourselves away from the strong political contradictions that have shaped the work of human rights for a long time. These contradictions will therefore affect the work of the MR Council. We already see it: continued political contradictions lead to some regimes escaping focus and criticism, while others may get it too unilaterally. But we can use this machinery to keep the states responsible, and that's what this government wants by seeking active membership and influence in the council. When the MR Council was established, it was directly placed under the auspices of the UN General Assembly. This implies an upgrade of the status in relation to the MR Commission. In this there was a confirmation of the central role of human rights. When a new body now takes over, we can see that the normative framework is solid, as I said. Once again, it shows all that work over almost 60 years has produced results. The challenge is to strengthen the UN's efforts to ensure the implementation of human rights. Therefore, Norway is working to increase the focus of the MR Council on implementation. The Human Rights Council gives us a number of mechanisms to do just that, to make states responsible for violating human rights, and this is part of our main strategy. Let me mention some points. Firstly, the regular annual sessions of the MR Commission often made it difficult to address the current challenges facing the world. It was therefore a clear step forward that it was decided that the new Human Rights Council should be able to meet as necessary. It allows the Council to become an important player in crisis situations and serious violations of human rights. The crisis in the Middle East led to three special sessions last year in the MR Council. Two of these led to very concrete follow-up on the ground. A delegation was sent to investigate the situation in the Palestinian area, while a commission of inquiry examined the human rights situation in Lebanon. Secondly, every country will now be subject to a review in the Council, on which Morten Höglund was involved. In this way, criticism of discrimination against individual countries is addressed in the issue of assessing the MR situation. The system is called universal, periodic report and will be able to provide us with a tool for assessing and monitoring the human rights situation in most of the world's countries. Thirdly, we have the UN Special Rapporteurs. These are mechanisms developed by the Human Rights Commission, not always on the basis of agreement within the Commission, and often with mandates that could be sharper but strong enough to allow the dedicated human rights experts, who have fulfilled some of these mandates, to make a difference. Several years ago, Norway was in the process of strengthening the situation of the world’s MR defenders through the establishment of the mandate of a Special Rapporteur for Human Rights Defenders. This work continues under the Council. During this spring’s session, the renewal of the mandate went through unanimous and unimpaired. The Special Rapporteur conducts country visits and follows up individual letters of complaint from MR defenders. Since the establishment of the mandate, the Special Rapporteur has addressed several thousand requests to States and has contributed to the concrete protection of very many MR defenders. The examination of the human rights situation in some countries is central to the work of several special rapporteurs. For example, the torture reporter’s recent trips to China, Jordan, and Sri Lanka. His strong reports and clear recommendations have become an important tool for the MR defense locally. The reports are also presented in the MR Council and are central to the universal periodic review. The review reports may provide an early warning of worrying developments. A large number of countries are covered, including countries such as China and Russia, countries that are otherwise heavily protected from criticism. Norway has therefore stressed the importance of ensuring that the mandate of the Special Rapporteurs is as strong and independent as possible. In connection with the Darfur session, the MR Council assembled a team of MR experts to investigate the situation. The joint review report provided a solid basis for further efforts by the population of Darfur. This is a new and effective tool pushed forward by the EU, Norway and other western countries. Let me comment on a challenge that the new Council has given us. A lower number of members and a change in composition have confronted us with a more demanding everyday life, which I had in mind in my presentation earlier today. Western countries, Latin American countries and some countries of former Eastern Europe cooperate closely with the Council of MRs. This group of countries is now in a minority and, in order for decisions to be implemented, support from Asian and African countries must be provided. Norway has therefore deliberately worked to establish alliances between moderate countries across regions. One example is the Norwegian-led work on human rights and business, where we work closely with India, Nigeria, Argentina and Russia. Group positions pose a significant challenge to this approach, but we have seen several times that it is possible to build broad coalitions that can deliver good results. I am of the firm opinion that the world community in the MR Council has got an instrument that can be made powerful. Then it's up to the world's political leaders to use the instrument. It doesn't happen automatically. We actually have to work for it. In this work, we will not sit on the fence, but actively participate in the defence of an international legal order. So we're choosing the Canadian strategy instead of standing outside. To achieve results, we can't just talk to those we agree with. We also have to bring what someone would call the "hosts" into the international norm-making work, put a spotlight on them. We owe the world millions of oppressed to stand up for their rights. For me, this solidarity is in practice. In the present situation, it is difficult to see how I would send such a message. We want to be involved and take responsibility for a better world. We must have the goal clear for ourselves and look for the political opportunities. The Human Rights Council is, despite its inherent weaknesses, such an opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e904	I would first like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for his response to the interpellation. As I also said in my first post, we have not drawn any conclusion on what should be Norway's role here. What we're recording, and what we're told about, is that the council seems to have ended up in a ditch politically. It weakens the Council's credibility, as we see it, and it's important to work your way out of the ditch and onto a track that's more constructive. I have no doubt that Norway will be a fan of important and good principles in the Council, and I hope you will be both clear and clear. I'm absolutely glad you choose to compare yourself to Canada. It is possible that I will draw the Foreign Minister far now, but I think we need the kind of activism that Canada may have been in the Council first and foremost. I take it for granted that the position that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has taken up, that Norway is applying for a candidate, is elected, and chooses to relate to it. With regard to the implementation of human rights, I fully agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that there is an obvious untapped potential. What we see can be a danger -- it's about the type of human rights council, it could be about human rights dialogues -- is that MR problems are put in this booth, and that some countries can be very comfortable with it. They can handle it in that setting, and then we're tacitly in agreement, or there's an understanding that we're not doing a big number of it elsewhere. I don't think the Foreign Minister will do that, but it's important to be aware of it all the time and to see the consequences. If you want to meet the wording of the Soria Moria Declaration on Human Rights, the high ambitions of this government in this area and what I feel is a total Norwegian collapse, you have to do something more. Unfortunately, the Human Rights Council does not prove to be an answer to the challenges there. But can it get better, and can it work, it's great, and then it might be an advantage. We're sceptical. I'll give a few advice on the way: Getting Membership Criteria Get the unilateral focus on Israel to stop Ensure that the members of the Board of Directors with the worst scrolls are evaluated first Establish country-specific mandates and, not least, avoid politicising the appointment of special rapporteurs and expert groups. There are unfortunately some rough examples.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e929	I am glad that the representative, Høglund, uses the Soria Moria declaration as a value compass in this matter. We welcome that. I would like to emphasise once again that it is positive that this question has been raised in this way, and the representative Höglund shows a continuing involvement in the MR area, which is important. That's a little like what I said in my statement earlier today about the law of the sea, that the legal basis exists, but we lack policy. We need more policy. What I've said before is that the legal framework in the MR field is really very complete, with conventions along the entire width that I mentioned. It is the implementation that is the problem. The host states have signed on to this, have joined it, are bound by it, but they are not following up. We know that in this area we are going to live in the incalculable future with a series of inadequacies. The question is, what do we do in relation to the inadequacies? I believe that there is an entirely open debate, where there are no absolutes. I also appreciate the fact that the representative, Mr Höglund, stresses this, that there is doubt and faith, and that we must have an informed active debate on what is right for Norway. It's important now that we take this step and apply for membership. If we get into the MR Council, which is something to which we are going to be elected, it will require that we have the ability to enter into alliances with others in order to set these agendas. I mentioned a way to work with it. Another area with an important country is Indonesia, which we have worked with in an intercultural media dialogue to put freedom of expression in a searchlight that also receives support from countries we normally do not work closely with. It's given a very important and interesting experience. I think at the beginning of this debate that the representative of the Council, Mr Höglund, believes that it is too early to draw a conclusion. I agree, although I also believe that we can do some critical observations after a year. I think we have to go here after the possibilities offered by the MR Council to the forces that have actually happened, what has happened by the fact that there is now a review of all countries, by the strong position of the rapporteurs, and by the fact that, as we hope, we are getting a new High Commissioner for human rights who can bear the legacy from the previous one. The last High Commissioner, Louise Arbour, withdrew, and it is a demanding challenge for the world community to come up with a High Commissioner who has the same courage and the same will to confront the wretched when they report. But at least we're going to be active in this area and try to use the period that we might get, in a way that corresponds to what is Norwegian value, and try to look for the possibilities that it gives.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e940	The interpellation of the representative, Højlund, provides an opportunity for a debate and perhaps some reflections on the role of the United Nations and also the role and work of the United Nations in relation to human rights issues. The smoking ruins of World War II formed the curtain when the UN was founded. The UN - the United Nations - should be worldwide. The organisation was established, among others: to prevent and prevent wars between States and to ensure respect for human rights. The atrocities of Nazism and the millions of the dead had left behind were a reminder of what could happen in the future if one did not get into binding international cooperation. The UN is the only world organization we have. It is also what the Member States make of it. Every year Norway has cooperated with like-minded UN countries on human rights, conflict prevention, and we have also heard the Minister for Foreign Affairs explain this. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I would also like to stress that in order to achieve results, we cannot just talk to those with whom we agree. We have to be able to sit down and tell the world's Mugabes or the world's ayatolls that what they're doing is wrong, that we're prepared to stand up to the world's millions of oppressed people. The strength of the UN is that everyone sits at the same table. Only in this way can we also ensure an international legal order. I believe that there is respect for the UN's work on human rights - not because it is infallible, but it is despite all this work that has given us the Convention on Human Rights, which has given us the Convention on Human Rights, and which has given us Security Council Resolution 1325 on the situation of women when peace is to be built. It is in the year 60 years since the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. I would like to point out to the Minister for Foreign Affairs that it was in the then Human Rights Commission under the leadership of the United States Ambassador, who was then Eleanor Roosevelt, that the Universal Declaration was negotiated - with the result that we have also been given the Convention on Civil, Political, Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. We have received the Torture Convention, the Children's Convention and the Racial Discrimination Convention that have given people across the world a legally binding basis for making their authorities responsible, as underlined by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Norway has always been active in the United Nations, and on 1 January 2001 Norway took its seat in the United Nations Security Council for a period of two years. Low-level and results-oriented may be what characterises our two years in the Security Council. Norway worked with conflict prevention, conflict resolution and cooperation with African countries. I believe Norway was able to do something during its two-year security council. Therefore, it is also important to try to get into the new Human Rights Council. We have to think that we're able to get to things, even though the starting point sometimes may look a little bit difficult. The fact that it has taken time for the Human Rights Council to function, and that there may have been a lack of support for the mandate, must be taken into account in the further work. The UN is the most important human rights organisation in the world, in terms of assistance, and in terms of international operations. I actually think the United Nations today has 18 different international operations going on. The UN is the organisation with sufficient authority, whether it is the regime in Burma or major humanitarian disasters. Norway is a small country dependent on strong and clear international driving rules. We would only lose if we chose not to participate in the UN Human Rights Protection Body. Similarly, we also participate in a number of other forums linked to the UN and other international organisations, both to promote our own interests, and not least to ensure a world society in the signs of solidarity.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e963	The interpellant addresses an important topic, and I would like to take the opportunity to say that I feel concern. I feel concern for human rights under pressure. We have an interpretation of human rights that is universal and absolute based on the UN Declaration and subsequent conventions. The Minister of Foreign Affairs referred to them in more detail. However, we experience in many contexts that a majority of international society is against our interpretation, our practice and the demands we will make to the Member States. It's useful to try to understand why there's such a majority against us. And I don't think it's hard to put my finger on it in the practical work I've been allowed to participate in, in contact with the UN over recent years, because you're facing it verbally quite explicitly: it's obviously a fear of weakening the political legitimacy of your own regime from some of the countries where we think human rights are weak. Secondly, it is, quite clearly formulated, a general anti-Western reaction. The UN is, in some cases, a body where the basic values are defined by the winners of World War II, to which Marit Nybakk was in - western values defined by majorities that are largely identified, at least it is said, as a prolongation of former colonial powers. This also characterises the attitude of some countries towards the new Human Rights Council. Otherwise, we will meet in many different contexts, not least when we are working on UN reform. Time in the future will show us what real content it becomes in Universal Periodic Review, which it has been referred to here. We hope that there will be consistently objective criteria, consideration of input and contributions from both national and international NGOs, and from the UN's own experts, and that no protection will be developed for our like-minded cultures. I see a clear task for Norway to be involved and influence, through our participation, that one gets the right procedures and criteria for the new Council. So this is how I understand that we have a problem by going in. But I have to admit that in working with, and in, the UN is sometimes confronted with other scenarios. And who are they? Well, one scenario is that one gets a further development through the United Nations, or by the United Nations. This is often the goal of people who believe that economic development will gradually lead to social and political development with greater freedoms, and that within these countries it will generate a strengthening of human rights. Then you will be able to gradually develop human rights, as democracy takes time to develop. Maybe we don't like that problem completely. We've wanted to see human rights as something absolute here and now. Democracy takes a little longer. But we might have to accept that situation. The second option, the second scenario, is that the UN's relevance decreases because its members don't experience their problems being solved there, and where the north-south or east-west front paralyzes the function. And we meet slowly the people who believe that we will then be able to have alternative, new global arenas, when the UN is unable to renew itself, where the south becomes a majority, and where the countries of the north are experiencing a whole new situation because one sees the emergence of heavy, new economies and alliances in other parts of the world. Or you can have a transition to strengthen more regional stakeholder organisations, and our closest ones are, of course, NATO and the EU. Others have their world-wide organizations. I think it is very important to be clear that one must not get a development where one isolates itself, but maintains interregional and international global dialogue, and it should remain in the United Nations, in our interest, even if it should be in other sentences. I am absolutely convinced that it will be in the best interests of further strengthening human rights globally, and not least I have the assurance that the people of the countries concerned are clearly on our side in that work. The conclusion is that we still need to have a strong commitment to human rights and the universal values through the available forums, where it per. Today is the Human Rights Council, which must be our natural arena. We must also seek to avoid countering an international organisational development that leads to isolation, whether by ourselves or by others.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e982	I also think it is good that the interpellant has raised human rights issues, so that we can have a discussion about it, because the protection of universal human rights is about solidarity and justice, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said. Another thing that matters to us is that it can give power and dignity to those who are fighting for change for the benefit of human rights. So the interpellant asks important questions. Well, that's probably not all of the nuances we share, but it's important questions, and I think it's good that the interpellant hasn't concluded. I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for a very, very good answer, which we fully share, and which I just want to elaborate. And then I think the representative Finn Martin Vallersnes had, as usual in these areas here, a very wise piece. The UN is an important arena for anyone who wants to fight for a better world, and it is especially important for small countries like Norway that we have a UN based on the fact that all countries have a voice. It's not just the strongest right that applies. It was, as Marit Nybakk also said, in the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, with the clear emphasis that all people have equal value, was adopted. I have also registered all the other commissions that have come after. I want to highlight the UN as an important arena in which important women's issues and rights have been fought, often in spite of the rulers of their own country. In practice, we see that not everyone agrees that all people have equal value. That's why we're being oppressed by regimes that violate human rights, which is happening in too many countries. But it is important to sit at the same table, be clear and responsible for those who violate human rights. It's not the same as legitimizing the regimes, but it's true that in almost all cases dialogue is better than exclusion. Therefore, the Human Rights Council will and must be an important arena, sail whether there are also contradictions that characterise the work of the Council. We must have two thoughts in our head at the same time, highlight them as an important arena, but also work to improve the functioning of the Council. We have to do that continuously. That is why I support Norway now applying for membership as an active member. I believe that Norway, because most countries do not suspect us to have substitute motives, can be a valuable candidate for the Council. But then I would also like to highlight that it is not always we are the great, innocent, brilliant examples either. We have to sweep for our own door, and I want to emphasize that what has come up about Telenor's behaviour in Bangladesh, is not exactly flattering. It is therefore important to look at the relationship between business interests and human rights interests. It is also not flattering if weapons from Norway are used to suppress human rights in other countries. Therefore, SV has always been a supporter of banning the export of war material to dictatorships and regimes that are likely to commit human rights violations. The Minister of Foreign Affairs explained why the Council could function better than the old Commission. I would like to highlight something: firstly, the Council can meet as needed and can be an important player in the event of crises and serious human rights violations. Secondly, it's the review of all the countries that more people have been involved in, and thirdly, it's -- and I don't think we should underestimate -- the role of the special rapporteurs. The mechanism was developed during the Commission, but continues under the Council. They make a difference between human rights defenders, organisations and activists in each country, for these courageous people who fight for human rights in each country take great risks whether they defend human rights in China or Chechnya, journalists and writers' freedom of expression, torture on Guantanamo, women's rights in Afghanistan or lesbian and gay rights in Africa. These courageous people can thus have the special rapporteurs as important partners of alliance and defenders and to hold the authorities accountable. I know, for example. --it's not sure the Progress Party likes it--what John Dugard, the Special Rapporteur in Palestine and Israel, has had to say to those who are fighting for Palestinian rights. And then I would say, like the others, that this has to be an important work. That's probably saying more.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e1000	Strengthening the UN is one of the most important pillars of Norwegian foreign policy. The world community needs a body capable of monitoring Member States' compliance with human rights obligations and prosecution of human rights violations with authority, consistency and impartiality. Unfortunately, in this area, the UN has not been able to live up to its ideals. The former Human Rights Commission was subsequently quite discredited. In this commission, there was a dominance of dictatorships that systematically blocked any criticism of themselves, but used it against others. It was therefore with several hopes for an improvement that Norway contributed to the creation of the new UN Human Rights Council in 2006. The new Council was to be directly subject to the General Assembly, and it was to be a permanent body, not just for a session once a year. Secret elections at the UN General Assembly meant keeping countries with bad roller blades out so that they could not block the work. The new system seemed to some extent, but the UN allocation of mandates to the various regions of the world made the system vulnerable. The experience after the first two years is, unfortunately, very little uplifting. A four-week session in March this year exposed the weaknesses to the world. The world's eyes had then followed with apprehension the crisis in Tibet and the Chinese authorities' handling of the matter. There could have been much to say about the condition of human rights in China, but not one of the Council resolutions was about it. Recordings from Australia, Canada, the EU, Switzerland and the United States were blocked by China and countries they had received on their side. According to NTB, only three of the 47 nations in the Human Rights Council supported the proposal for a special session on Tibet. The reaction was strong from some human rights organisations. The Council should address the crisis, but in practice it seems that some countries are at peace. If some countries are peaceable, the advice is in return for the bad tradition of the abandoned MR Commission with constant and one-sided criticism of Israel. During the first two years of the Council, twelve resolutions have been adopted criticising Israel for human rights violations, and when the Council was assembled in March this year, new resolutions were addressed to Israel, one of the first to be adopted. Then it is, after all, a point of light that the President of the MR Council has agreed that the Council has failed to deal with the Israeli-Palestinian conflict in a fair manner. There have been serious violations of human rights in many places in the last two years. The Council, for its part, has held only six special sessions until March this year. In return, four of them have been dealing with Israel. The fifth was Darfur, Sudan. Despite a report that showed terrible abuse, the Council ended up with a resolution that only took note of the report, without joining the criticism. There are probably some issues to be addressed in all countries, and the UN Human Rights Council has duly examined countries such as Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, France, the United Kingdom and Norway. Then it is all the more sobering that the Council has stopped examining countries such as Belarus, Iran and Uzbekistan at the same time despite serious violations in these countries. Among the members of the UN Human Rights Council, we also find Cuba, Egypt, China, Pakistan, Russia and, not least, Saudi Arabia. Some critical examination of their own countries has not been made possible by these members of the Council. There is reason for fundamental criticism of the way the UN Human Rights Council operates. In short, the Council is not working properly. It is a fact that the UN cannot do more than the Member States allow. But when what is done is as selectively biased and one-sided as the case is in the work of the Human Rights Council, there is reason to consider the whole structure critically. The UN has good objectives for its work on human rights. The standards that are set are important international agreements on human rights that provide a good basis. Own committees monitor the various conventions and the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights plays an important role. But the weaknesses of the system become so obvious when we see the composition and work of the UN Human Rights Council so far. I think it is commendable that the Government has ambitions on behalf of this Council. I think the option of not having ambitions is worse than having it. But what I miss from the Government, when you now want to put time, attention and money into this work and bet on Norway's entry, is a strategy plan for reforming the Council in relation to the obvious weaknesses that have already been revealed during these two first years. I would challenge the Foreign Minister to present that strategy plan, because I believe it will strengthen the platform for Norway's involvement and Norway's candidacy. And it will increase the credibility of the Council if Norway succeeds in coming in and that way can help set a different course from the one we have seen to date.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e1022	Let me start by saying thank you to the interpellant, who addressed such an important topic. At the same time, I must state that, in the reply to the interpellation, the Minister of Foreign Affairs gave a very good account of the government's motivation and work in this matter. Some of us, who live reasonably safely with the good practice of human rights, may have a very optimistic view of what's happening out there in the world -- we believe that a positive development comes of itself. But if we look around, and in the light of the critical comments that have been made in the debate today, we find that there is no obvious reason to do so. Some of us have believed that there is a positive economic development, that we should also give ground for people in these countries with a better economy and education, to demand a safer legal basis for their very existence through human rights, and that it should be put in place. That's not happening. We were on a visit to China, which is mentioned as one of these countries, and experienced, when we called for the situation, to get the answer that it takes time before you start giving rice to the hand that gives you a better financial basis. That's why it's incredibly important that we, as a nation, put pressure on and focus on this particular work through an active work in the Human Rights Council. It is with concern that we see, for example, that China is using a lot of financial resources to get into Africa to get the commercial economic profit by taking out raw materials and not demanding democracy development and human rights in just those countries. They say they won't interfere in their internal affairs. They use the same as a shield when the world around them reacts to the way China has treated the situation in Tibet. Therefore, it is extremely important that we use the UN track and develop it further, even though we see that the Human Rights Council may not have been given the form that is desirable. I don't think there is any alternative organization that can work on this matter in such a way that the United Nations can do. I am pleased that the Minister of Foreign Affairs so clearly and clearly announced the priority work done by the Government through the UN, through dialogue and pressure to get a solution that we can be proud of in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e1041	I would like to start by taking the opportunity to thank the interpellant for raising an important and interesting question. For a small country such as Norway, it is of great importance that it is not the strongest right that can happen, but that there are international driving rules that apply to everyone - large and small, poor and rich. That is why we need the UN, and therefore the UN should remain one of the pillars of Norwegian foreign policy. However, the UN never gets stronger than the Member States do. A clear indicator of the state of the United Nations is the United Nations budget. It has decreased in real terms in the last ten years. The UN has thus had to make significant cuts in its activities, including: by reducing stocks and freezing activities. I have hopes that the forthcoming Presidential change in the United States will help turn the pendulum, that is. create a political climate change so that the UN once again receives the attention and resources it deserves. We see that neo-conservatives are in retreat, and that a more UN-friendly and cooperative United States appears. However, I would warn against leaning back and waiting for the next president of the United States to save the United Nations. We must also contribute to a political climate change and it must be accompanied by real reforms by the UN organisation and functioning. The work on human rights is one of the core areas of the UN, but at the same time a very demanding field. Among the UN Member States, there are strong contradictions between human rights defenders and those who believe that criticism of human rights violations is an interference in internal affairs. For many developing countries, cultural, economic and social rights are high, together with the right to development. Many rich countries, however, are more focused on human rights. In addition, the valuable contrasts between life’s vision and freedom of expression. It has made it difficult to work for human rights in the UN system. The UN Commission on Human Rights was therefore replaced by a Human Rights Council in 2006. The aim was to create a more effective body. The new Council was made permanent, enabling it to monitor in a more efficient and continuous way the human rights situation in the world. In addition, the Council is directly associated with the General Assembly. However, these grips have proved to be, as many have mentioned, insufficient. Many of the same countries that have trampled on the brake pedal in the old Commission are sitting and doing the same in the new Council. They have a partially torn scroll on human rights, and deliberately use the Council to divert attention away from critical situations in their own countries. So you could say that the council has got the opposite function of what it was intended to do. China could thus prevent the Council from adopting a resolution on Tibet during the Council's annual session in March. I think this is very regrettable. This shows that without political will to change, there is little to be done to strengthen the UN through institutional reforms. In the meantime, we see that the UN is on the defensive on human rights issues. At the same time, we see that independent human rights organisations such as Amnesty International and others play an increasingly important role. In addition, the courage and the exposure come to a number of individuals. I don't think there's any easy way out of this for the United Nations system. The recent reform of the UN human rights agencies has not produced the desired results, and there is little to suggest that new institutional reforms can do anything about it. This seems to be among the problems the UN system cannot reform itself. But at the same time, we must give the UN Human Rights Council time to find its shape - to be courageous in human rights matters. I support the Højbråten's proposal for a very clear strategy for Norway's membership of the Human Rights Council. I think the way out of the problem is also to contribute to creating more political attention to violations of human rights, both at home and outside. We should help to bring this even further into the political agenda, especially in countries where abuse of individuals is being committed. This could contribute to the promotion of the work of human rights both inside and outside the UN system.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e1064	The debate today is a confirmation of the broad political commitment it has in this area. It's a pleasure. I have no problem agreeing with the proposal made by the representative, Mr Højbräten, on a strategy plan. However, although such a strategy plan is as offensive and clear as what I and the representative Højbrätten would like, I am not sure whether it will work positively in the election campaign that Norway will run, in order to be elected and to receive support from, for example, Norway. countries like China and others. It might be a dilemma. But Norway is clear and clear, a wish from many of us. On Friday 28 March this year, the newspaper’s foreign editor used the title of the “UN’s own soup board” in the Newspaper. I haven't chosen to go as far as using that type of word. I just want to note that the criticism of the UN Human Rights Council comes from many quarters. It's wide, and it has to be taken seriously. I feel that the debate today is doing so. If Norway is to have a place at the table, it is important that Norway contributes to the fact that this criticism is not as justified as I feel it is today. The Council's defence can now be said to address crises. Important crises in the Middle East have been raised - perhaps with a positive result, I shall not dwell on it - but more have mentioned here that Tibet has not been taken up. Burma and their handling of the cyclone are chosen not to be recorded. So this is used in a way that is objectively difficult to defend. What I would also like to mention is that Norway should have a place - perhaps even independently - it is important that human rights defenders around the world feel that they have an ally in Norway, and that Norway is so clear and clear that a blogger in Saudi Arabia or a female activist in China knows they have an ally in Norway. That is what I want Norway to communicate, including in the election campaign. Then it gets carried or broken. For we should not be elected, because we are clear, this council has, in my opinion, shown that it does not deserve our attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e1073	Once again, thank you for the inter-pellant for a good debate, for a good focus, and thank you for the broad support we have in Norway around this important matter area. Let me join the good wording of the representative, Vallersnes: fully engaged in accessible forums, avoiding isolation of ourselves or others. I think that's a proper guideline -- it's demanding in many ways, but that's what we have to do. As far as the strategy plan is concerned, I spoke to the Human Rights Council on March 3rd this year. I advertised our candidacy and brought forward the issues that are very central to Norway. I can refer to that article. There I spoke about the importance of the fight against the death penalty, the fight against torture, the fight against freedom of expression and the values attached to it. I also talked about the importance of standing up for human rights defenders. And as for the blogger in Saudi Arabia, I met him three weeks ago in a hotel room, in hiding, in Riyadh. I met female human rights activists, and I also met human rights activists at the Beijing Embassy. That's part of the Norwegian line. We do it in forums where we're represented internationally, and we do it in countries where we're visiting. Then I expressed special support to the High Commissioner. It's an institution that Norway has been fighting ever since it came. We still need to be aware that we support the person who has the important job, give him personal self-confidence, political support and political assistance in the matters he or she puts on the agenda - and then we need to keep up with the special rapporteurs and the special procedures. Norway’s strategy plan is in many ways. So the question is, can we go in now and change the advice in the way it works? I realized that the representative Højbrätt also focused on it. On the other hand, the representative Larsen says that it might be a little early to enter that debate now, just a year or two after the Council was formed. I think we need to find a pragmatic way in terms of how ambitious we can be, based on what we can get. It was a very demanding work that led to the establishment of the Council, and Norway was actively involved in cooperation with the President of the General Assembly, Jan Eliasson, in trying to push on so that the last pieces would fall into place. A lot of people kept going. Our assessment was that it was now important to take care of what we did after all in this council -- we had ambitions about more -- and turn the ring around it. So we're going to find this balance in the time that's coming. Again - thank you for this good debate. We will probably have the opportunity to come back to this in future interpellation debates and other debates on foreign policy, because in foreign policy, human rights are a key line for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e1086	The debate on substance is closed. So 9 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e1100	The case gives rise to a few brief comments, mainly on the fact that fisheries research has evaluated a pilot project with long-term agreements in the first hand placing on the market of fish, with the result that it has proved to be a very useful complement to existing forms of marketing in individual fisheries. The pilot project has shown that long-term agreements under the Raw Fish Act can be organised. In addition, it is now up to the sales teams themselves, in cooperation with the economic operators, to add to the modes of sales that are most profitable in terms of value creation and resource take-off control. Sales have an important role to play in resource control work. The close cooperation between the Sales Act and the Fisheries Directorate is important in order to make an appropriate use of common resources, and it is hoped that the development and improvement of data exchange between the Sales Act and the Directorate will help to further streamline control work. But above all, this communication is a report on increased exports of Norwegian seafood. Seafood is one of our most important exports, next to oil and gas. In 2006, the export value reached a record DKK 35.6 billion, despite a slight decrease in exported quantities. Fresh fish are an increasing part of exports. Norway is now exporting fish to 150 countries, and the EU is clearly our largest market. The purpose of the fish export selection is to promote the export of Norwegian seafood in close cooperation with the companies in the fisheries and aquaculture industries. The aim is, of course, to contribute to the industry's profitability and further development. In addition to the export effort, Norwegian fishing industry should now also focus more strongly on what we can call the domestic market. Finally, I would like to mention that on several occasions the Norwegian Coastal Fisheries Team has pointed out that the team does not have a representation in the governing bodies of Sunnmøre and Romsdal Fish Sales Teams and the Fish Agn supply. The Ministry has addressed this with the respective organisations. An overall committee shall require all sales teams to organise their activities in such a way that members are treated in a non-discriminatory manner. The Committee therefore asks the Government to follow up this matter with the two organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e1113	Several have not asked for the word. [[See page 3277]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e1132	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3278]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e1150	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3278]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e1168	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3278]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e1184	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each lot and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from the Council of State in the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e1193	Today, I think we are dealing with a proposal from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Committee on Legal Affairs and The majority refers to the opinion in the case in a letter from the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, at the Council of State, dated 30 April 2008. The majority believe that the proposal intervenes in the area of responsibility of the executive authorities and propose that the proposal be rejected. So a little bit to the argument to reject such a suggestion. First, I would like to refer to the Presidency of the United Kingdom on 8 March 2002. As regards the consideration of representative proposals, the following is stated in the Storting Rules of Procedure in the second paragraph of Section 29: "If the Committee finds it doubtful that the proposal does not deserve the consent of the Grand Duchy, it should without further delay encourage the rejection of the proposal."; That's what the majority have done in this case. In order to justify the proposal, the proposers point out that the company Eide Marine Services AS claims that neither the company nor the industry as such were aware of the announced deadline for applying for a prequalification for subsequent submission of tenders, and that, inter alia, As a result, Eide Marine Services AS has not been given the opportunity to submit tenders to the contract. Following the assessments referred to in the letter of 30 April 2008, it is not appropriate to say that Eide Marine Services AS and other rescue companies have not been given the opportunity to participate in the invitation to tender for cancellation. Prequalification for the competitive tendering procedure was announced on 19 November 2007 both on the Norwegian and on the European public website, under the public procurement legislation. This is the procedure to be followed under the Government Acquisitions Code. The purpose of such a notice is to ensure that it is made available to all relevant suppliers. The Coast Guard Station has informed that Eide Marine Services AS did not notify its interest in being pre-qualified for the termination contest within the published deadline. Pursuant to Government Acquisitions Regulation § 11-10, paragraphs 1 (d) had the duty - not to have the right - to reject suppliers who do not provide a request for prequalification within the published deadline. The opening of new rounds and the rejection of tenders received on the grounds that a new, extended bidding round would lead to a weakening of confidence in, inter alia. the companies which have submitted tenders and major international operators in the industry, so that they will not participate in or use less resources in future competition. It would be unfortunate for the work related to the wreck of U-864. That is why this case has been handled in this way. Finally, I have to apologize - I stress: I have to apologize - what I perceive as a betrayal of suspicion as to the fact that someone has been kept out of this matter. I will refute that strongly.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e1217	I would like to include the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote. The Contracting Party will have a new, extended bidding round. The progress party will remind you of what this case actually applies. A year ago, the commitment of the Progress Party - through our proposal for a representative - led to a complete turnaround by the Government. The government's recommended solution - covering 65 tonnes of liquid mercury stored in metal bottles inside the wreck of U-864 in the sea outside Fedje in Hordaland - was converted. Two hearings in Stortinget in 2007, 6 March and 16 April informed the matter thoroughly. The coastal body’s recommendation to choose mercury cover as the best method was therefore set aside. I quote from the press release of the Council of State, dated 17 April 2007: ‘In the light of consultations in the United Kingdom, where several actors have come up with new proposals for raising the submarine, there is a need for more time to investigate the lifting option of the submarine project, says Minister of Fisheries and Coast Helga Pedersen. In its report to the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coast, the Coastal Agency has assessed several options to eliminate pollution from the wreckage. The Coastal Authority’s assessments and recommendations are based on physical studies of the wreck itself and the area around it in 2005 and 2006, as well as assessments obtained from a number of Norwegian and international professional communities. However, in retrospect, several new actors have come up with new proposals on how to lift the submarine. The risk of touching the wreck and the contaminated masses at the bottom is considered to be significantly independent of the method. According to Pedersen, the cancellation proposals that have now come up in retrospect will have the same thorough assessment as the alternatives already explored. This means that there will be no coverage in 2007 and that the effort to explore options for cancellation will be given the highest priority in the future, ending the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs.’ Eite Marine Services AS participated in the hearing of the Transport and Communications Committee. This company was one of two salvage companies who participated and showed cancellation options. This is the background. The reason why the Progress Party is now considering the matter through its proposal for a representative is that the Progress Party does not accept that one of Europe's leading recovery operators, who has been at the hearing of the Transport and Communications Committee and who has presented its solution, should not be given the opportunity to deliver this solution in a bid for the mission, a mission for which the company is clearly fully qualified. This case is not a party post from a disappointed operator who has not received a tender. This case is a call from the Advance Party to the Government to intervene with the trade union Coastal Works in a matter where the Stortinget has actively and clearly helped to point out the solution, and to look away from its first conclusion. ‘Haster to start coverage’, said the country’s Prime Minister, Stoltenberg, when he visited the annual meeting at the Hordaland Workers’ Party on 17 March 2007. He was based on advice from the Coastal Works. ‘There is a need for more time to explore the lifting option of the submarine wreck’, said Fisheries and Coastal Minister Pedersen on 17 April 2007. She was based on advice given in the hearing on the matter from many experts, not least from two rescue firms, one of which was Eide Marine Services. The Advance Party does not understand the position of the Coastal Agency nor does it understand the position of the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs in the matter. From our point of view, it would be natural to make sure that all the leading operators who can carry out such a difficult task are given the opportunity to submit a tender - especially those who want it. It is incomprehensible why the Coastal Administration and, subsequently, the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Ministry of Fisheries have not ensured the extension of prequalification or that the bidding round was put at risk to ensure this. It doesn't matter at all to the Progress Party whether the one leading operator's name is Eide or Hansen. Here we talk about measures to ensure that all competent operators participate. The Progress Party also talks about ensuring that there has also been no active discrimination in this process, where one operator is actively excluded, while others receive additional reminders and additional warnings. We feel confident that the Government and the Ministry of Fisheries and Coast have the full opportunity to run a new bidding round if they want to. The wish to have the widest possible competence among tenderers should be both a good and a formally acceptable reason. In the opinion of the Progress Party, there are no formal obstacles here. The propulsion party wants the best possible solution for the removal of the submarine and mercury from the sea at Fedje in Hordaland. In order to obtain the best possible solution, all the best operators must be invited to tender. It must be a parliamentary formulation. The Progress Party encourages the Council of State and the Government to take a stand!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e1252	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e1255	I refer to the comments that the Christian People's Party shares with the Right and Left. It is regrettable that one of the stakeholders did not follow the deadlines in force and therefore did not submit tenders. In the form of a note, we ask the Government to facilitate, as far as possible, the possibility of involving as many qualified practitioners as possible in the tendering process for the lifting of the submarine and the removal of the mercury hazard. Otherwise, we have confidence that the Government will deal with this in the best possible way. I will express that on behalf of the Christian People's Party. I will address the proposal where the Christian People's Party is co-sponsored.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e1266	The representative Jan Sahl has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e1269	As I see it, this matter is no longer concerned with the method of securing pollution from the submarine missile, but with the use of a Document No. 8 proposals to re-open an offer process. I'd have seen very positively if Eide Marine Services had delivered an offer, but when they didn't do it within the deadline, it's actually not the transport and communication committee's table anymore. One should be careful to claim that the Progress Party here is running errand for a company, but it is quite special that the Progress Party uses a Document No. Eight-proposal candy. If they had reason to believe that the bidding process had been wrong, there is a control body for this. I would like to point out that the Transport and Communications Committee is not that body.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e1276	In motion for a resolution, no. 97 supports the following proposal by representatives of the Progress Party: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the prequalification of tenderers for participation in the mercury removal competition in U864/hefting of U864 in the sea at Fedje in Hordaland is immediately extended and expanded.’ In order to justify the proposal, the representatives of a company, Eide Marine Services AS, claim that neither that company nor the industry as such was aware of the announced deadline of 4 January 2008 for applying for a prior qualification for participation in the competitive bidding process. After the information I received from the Coastal Works, this is not correct. The invitation for the prequalification was published under the procurement law and the deadline was known. It also shows the fact that six companies within the recovery, decommissioning and underwater operations submitted a request for pre-qualification within the prescribed period. These were both large international recovery companies and a Norwegian company that is part of an international group in underwater operations. Let me briefly go through the process of announcing the invitation to prequalification for the cancellation contest and the information given about it. Information to rescue companies on the competition for cancellation has been provided in several ways. Firstly, the invitation to apply for a prequalification was published on 19 November 2007 on both the Norwegian and European official Internet site for public procurement under the procurement legislation. The purpose of such a notice is to ensure that information on the competitive tendering procedure is made available to all suppliers concerned. However, it is the responsibility of potential providers to follow these websites in order to capture acquisitions for which they wish to compete. Secondly, on 4 December 2007 information was sent to the International Salvage Union (ISU) and individual companies associated with that organisation, where the notice of prequalification was generally made known on the Norwegian and European Internet sites. This was done immediately after an information meeting on the competition for cancellation on the same day. At this meeting, only one company, Sonsub AS, participated. This is a Norwegian company, based in Stavanger, which is part of an international group in underwater operations. This additional information would ensure that the international recovery environment was aware of the notice. Acquisition law does not prevent the disclosure of such general information that a competition has been announced to individual companies or professional organisations. Thirdly, the company referred to in the representative proposal, Eide Marine Services AS, attended an information meeting at the Norwegian Veritas on 15 November 2007. The meeting concerned competition for the development of alternative means of cancellation - a competition which was launched prior to the publication of the notice of pre-qualification for the termination contest. At this meeting, the upcoming competition for cancellation was also informed, so that Eide Marine Services received oral information at the meeting on the competition to come. All participants were also given access to the Internet site established by Norse Veritas to make information and documentation related to competition on alternative cancellation solutions available. On this page, among other things: presentations of that information meeting on 4 December 2007 on the competition for cancellation made available. As I said, a total of six companies in the field of rescuing, rescuing and submersible work submitted a request for prequalification for competition within the prescribed period. Consequently, the industry as such may not have been aware of the announcement of an invitation to pre-qualification. Of the six who reported their interest, four companies were prequalified - all major international players in the industry. However, the company to which the proposed representative refers did not notify its interest in being pre-qualified within the published deadline. Following a request from the company on 7 January 2008, the Swedish Coast Guard Agency examined whether there was a legal possibility of including this company in the assessment for prequalification. This was assessed both by the Swedish Coast Guard Agency and subject to external legal assessment. Both assessments concluded that it was not possible to involve the company without breaching the public procurement rules. The Coastal Agency was obliged - not to - to reject suppliers who did not submit a request for prequalification within the published deadline.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e1303	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e1306	During the hearing of the Transport and Communications Committee, it was quite clear that the Coastal Plant was very little satisfied with the recordings that were made, among other things. from Eide Marine Services, to choose a different solution from that recommended by the Department and the Coastal Plant for the coverage of U-864. And there has been a letter from the Norwegian Environment Agency, which has also been sent to the Ministry of the Environment, on this with warning and that it is now actually believed that Eide Marine Services is to be regarded as a warning. Does the Council not agree that it is important to get all the facts on the table? Can the Council of State order that some of the companies concerned have been contacted by the Coastal Agency and the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs in order to be reminded that there is now an ongoing tendering process, while others have not received the same information?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e1314	All information on this competition has been available to all actors, and Eide Marine Services has also received oral information that this prequalification competition would come. It is the individual company's own responsibility to follow the information that is posted on the Internet pages I have explained. Then, in addition to the tender information on the Internet pages, the Swedish Coastal Agency has been concerned about bringing the environment to the attention of competition, just to bring in qualified actors. An e-mail was sent to the members of the International Salvage Union and some individual companies. Own Marine Services did not receive that e-mail by a courier. However, this does not conflict with the procurement rules or procedures. It is not prohibited for the Coastal Plant to release additional information.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e1321	I will continue to challenge the state councils for the most important thing here, especially given that both the Coastal Agency and the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs were very critical to move forward on the assumption that they just wanted to cover the mercury. Is it not important for the Council of State - and that is precisely what the entire proposal for a representative is all about - to ensure that the best solution is available, in order to be sure that it is the security that is at stake if you choose a lifting option? The background to taking the matter up again is that you are not sure. Maybe Eide Marine Services should have had that opportunity. The Council of State also confirms that Eide Marine Services, according to the Council of State, did not receive the same e-mail as a number of other companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e1326	Firstly, Eide Marine Services has received the information they should have, in line with any other company. And it's the company's own responsibility to keep up with the class. That is what this proposal for a representative is all about. Of course, I'm very concerned that we're getting the best providers to come up with the best option, so that people on the Fedje and along the coast can be sure that it's the safest option that's being chosen. This is precisely why it is so important that we deal with the procurement regulations and do not do what the Progress Party is now proposing, and reopen the whole process, which may result in the loss of all the serious companies that have now notified their interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e1333	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor in case No. 14th @item: inlistbox [[See page 3278]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e1348	The size should now vote in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e1459	In Case No. 9 introduces no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e1483	There will be a vote on proposals from the representative Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left sent from the meeting in the Odelstinget on 28 April 2008. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to provide for the possibility of using discretion in the decision on the extent of the withdrawal in the case of catches in breach of the minimum targets, so that full withdrawal is not used where this appears unreasonable in the circumstances.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e1502	There will be a vote on proposals from the representative Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left sent from the meeting in the Odelstinget on 28 April 2008. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision requests the Government to carry out a review of today’s rules on the fishing logbook for the purposes of simplification.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e1521	There will be a vote on the proposal by Mr Øyvind Korsberg on behalf of the Progress Party submitted from the meeting in Odelstinget on 28 April 2008. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to stop the construction of the Coast Guard.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e1540	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Jan Sahl on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposal No. 2, from Bård Hoksrud, on behalf of the Advance Party The vote will be taken at the next voting time on proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the prequalification of tenderers for participation in the mercury removal competition in U864/hefting of U864 in the sea at Fedje in Hordaland is immediately extended and that an expanded bidding round is carried out as soon as possible.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e1564	Proposal No. 1, from Right, Christian People's Party and Left, says: ‘Document No. 8:97 [[2007-2008]] Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee will be rejected. The Committee had recommended that: Document No 8:97 [[2007-2008]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-20.ana.ud1038e1576	The President expects the Progress Party now to support the proposal in a subsidiary way.
