ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-29.ana.ud995e48	Be co-representatives! The former Sverre Helland, representative of the population, died on 31 December 2007, at the age of 83. Helland was born on September 18, 1924, in Hamre, Hordaland. He was an electrician from Bergen Technical School and worked for many years as an electroinstaller in a company owned by the gardening company in the home municipality of Lindås. Helland Elektro AS, which he agreed to start, eventually became the largest and leading installation company in North Hordland. In 1969, Sverre Helland was elected to the Stortinget, where he spent four periods. In his time at Stortinget, he spent eight years in the Industry Committee, six years in the Finance Committee and the last two years in the Justice Committee. Sverre Helland had a strong identity attached to the home state and the home city throughout his political life. 'For me, Oslo is only a place where I work, one and sleep. It is Eikangervåg who has been my hometown for all these years," said Helland to the newspaper Strilen when in 1985 he resigned as a wholesaler after 16 years at Stortinget. But it wasn't just the hometown of Sverre Helland that had surrounded it. There were many municipalities and local communities that enjoyed visits by Bigningsmann Helland, who for a period were also Vice President of the Center Party. He was a sought after speaker, both in political forums and in business. The construction of Mongstad, the tribal road between Bergen and Sogn and Nordhordlandsbrua, was some of the local things that he spent a lot of time on. In his time as spokesman in Lindås, he was one of the driving forces to get land to the oil refinery in Mongstad. As a representative of the magnificence, he followed up on the work to realize these plans. Helland also had a high level of involvement in national and international policies. He was a firm and thoughtful opponent of the EEC. He marked himself with scepticism for the funding of the Social Security Fund, where he believed that in the future the fund would be far too little to cover the costs. Both in this and in other matters, he marked himself as a forward-looking politician with clear opinions and a strong will. Helland was very much like and respected in all political camps and between journalists to give sincere answers and views. Olav Garvik's story in the Official Journal of Bergen 3 January this year gives a good picture of the politician Sverre Helland: ‘A tough and willful strip that never took tactical care. Swearing Helland always stood on what he meant to be right, if he saw standing alone." When Sverre Helland left national politics and the Stortinget in 1985, 61 years old, he took up new education before the electrical science in order to further education in terms of renting an electric company. For some years he assumed all responsibility for the operation, before he later left it to the son to operate the family company. We are grateful for the significant social effort that Sverre Helland has made, and we are at peace with his memory. The stuttering representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-29.ana.ud995e78	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Grand Prix today and tomorrow - and consider it adopted. The President will propose Solvency Horne. Other proposals are not available, and Solvency Horne is considered unanimously elected president of today's and tomorrow's meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-29.ana.ud995e96	The Storting decided unanimously on the Will for Research report in spring 2005. The Communication replaced the previous Research Communication and provided guidance on the policy measures to be taken in the period up to 2010. The structural and horizontal research priorities are internationalisation, basic research and research-based innovation and innovation. As far as thematic efforts are concerned, they are adopted to be energy and environment, sea, food and health. The technology platforms are ICT, new materials and nanotechnologies, and biotechnology. The challenge with such priorities is to have patience enough to keep them firm over time. So in this case, they have to be fixed until 2010, at least. A stronger effort will be required at all times in areas which are not part of the adopted strategy and the designated areas. In order to ensure that the money spent on research is best spent, it is important to recognise that research priorities need long-termity and predictability. But it is also essential that the economic objectives of the Grand Duchy have been set, namely that 3 pst. GDP is to be researched by 2010, of which 1 is pst. must come from public sources, be realised. In this context, it was with some wonder that I read the Evening Post on 13 November last year, where research and higher education minister Tora Aasland made promises of an action plan that prioritises climate, health and well-being. This is partly contrary to the priorities of the Research Communication and contributes to uncertainty about the strategies underlying the message. The same Article states that the Action Plan will apply for 2009 and 2010 and will bring together research efforts more closely in the areas of climate and environment, health and well-being. There is little evidence that the need for research policy in Norway is to develop new action plans that go partly across the agreed priorities of the Research Communication. On the contrary, we have the tool we need to target the structural and thematic research priorities. What we do not have, on the other hand, is sufficient appropriations to implement the priorities we have set and to achieve the objective of 3 pst. GDP is intended for research purposes by 2010. I'll get back to that. There is no basis for signalling new priorities or deprioritising adopted areas of activity now. The focus in the period up to 2010 must now be on implementing what the Storing has adopted. In addition to these new signals from the Minister of Research and Higher Education, the Government has introduced a new practice of using the returns of the Research and Innovation Fund. The fund, which was intended to secure long-term and stable funding for research, has, in practice, been disrupted in the last two years. Instead of being used to support long-term and strategic investment, the return is now largely used to pay for current operating costs. Among other things, a large part of the 2008 yield, worth over DKK 1.1 billion, is used to pay the quota in the Seventh Framework Programme of the EU for Research and for 350 fellows. Representatives of the government parties claim that this is also research, and that is what it is. The problem is that these are expenditures that have previously been covered by the ordinary budget lines, for which the government has thus had to find money every year. With the new practice, the Government does not find any fresh money for research because it takes off the long-term money that would have gone to support the priorities adopted by the Stortinget through the 2005 Research Communication. Therefore, the signals from the Minister of Research and Higher Education are becoming particularly worrying for the research communities that are now being set up under the Research Communication. Will priorities be changed? Will the economic effort be long enough? Or can we expect the objectives to change? The Church, Education and Research Committee last week visited Sweden in a fruitful manner. In meetings with the Ministry of Education, we discussed inter alia: differences and differences between the Norwegian and Swedish situation in the field of research. In summary, there are many similarities in the idea of relatively long-term and structural thematic priorities. In Sweden, a so-called research proposal is presented every four years. Like Norway, they do not operate with multi-annual research budgets, but the research proposals represent a clear commitment by government shifts. This was also the intention of the Norwegian Research Communication of 2005. It was unanimously adopted, with the exception of the SV's primary wish for an even stronger escalation of the capital of the Research Fund, a numerical escalation plan for research appropriations for the State budget and a earmarked billion for scientific equipment each year. These primary proposals are not seen as much with SV in the government position. Where Norway and Sweden clearly distinguish layers, the private share of research effort is. The challenge in Sweden is that the large companies that research a lot, among other things. in the pharmaceutical industry and technology, not necessarily remaining in Sweden forever. In Sweden, too, from time to time the challenge is that new research priorities are proposed or required. It is then necessary to maintain the priorities that have been set and not to fall for the temptation to give new signals - or even to propose a plan in the plan. Because the research communities are totally dependent on knowing what they have to do over time, the signals must also be unambiguous over time. If the need had not been there for such long-term and unambiguousness, the Storting would not have had to make research messages. The Stortinget could then adopt the research priorities from year to year. There's a reason why we don't. The objectives, efforts and priorities we set for the 2005-2010 period should then be set. In order to achieve the public share of research efforts up to the agreed target of 1 p.m. of GDP by 2010, the annual research appropriations need to be increased by approximately DKK 4 billion. Some representatives of the government parties believe that the main problem is not that the state does not fulfil its share, but that we do not reach the target of 2 pst. private research share of GDP. I agree that it is a problem that business is no longer researching, but there is - first of all - no excuse for not fulfilling the state's share of the objective that business is no longer researching. On the contrary, it should be an objective for the State to set a good example and demonstrate that the research priorities and objectives are serious. If the state skips its own goal, it is clear that business is not motivated to bet either. Secondly, the government in the budgets has, in my opinion, taken unwise decisions, among other things. on the reduction of the FUNN tax system, a system that actually contributes to more research into business and that just came out very well in an evaluation by the Statistical Central Bureau. Norway has the prerequisites for research efforts that other countries can only dream of. We have money, and we have wise heads. That's why I think it's passive of the Government to point to a rapidly growing GDP as an excuse not to meet the goals we set just two and a half years ago. On the contrary, it is precisely in very good economic times that we have an extra great freedom of action to prioritize what is important. Thanks to the good times, the government has 130 billion more to distribute today than the previous government had at the government change in 2005. It gives you an adventurous opportunity. Instead, universities and colleges, where much of the research is done, experience large cuts that affect both the quality and quantity of research. We also experience uncertainty about the firmness of the agreed objectives of the research communication and uncertainty about the size and mechanism of the research priorities. Priority is about will. Let me give you an example: from the 2007 budget to the 2008 budget, government appropriations for kindergartens increase by 19.8 p.m., or by just over 3.5 billion kroner. Suddenly, increases in budget lines in the billions class are not a problem. It just happens. Kindergarten bet is important, and I'm not going to make myself a spokesman to bet less on kindergartens. But I think it's striking that you can't see the same determination and willingness to invest in future by the government. If the public research appropriations could increase by only 2 of the 3.5 billion children's cohabitation increases, the situation would look much brighter. The combination of unclear signals on the professional priorities to be applied, the question of whether or not the course of the Research Communication is solid, the uncertainty and non-fulfilment of the State share of the agreed research objective and the change in the use of the Research Fund's returns make it natural to ask the Council of State for an explanation of the Government's priorities in research policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-29.ana.ud995e136	I am very pleased with the question from the representative of Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide. She is raising an important debate on the priorities of research policy. Let me state immediately that the research policy priorities adopted by the Stortinget in connection with St.meld. No 20 for 2004-2005, is firm. We could have ended the discussion there, but of course I won't. I have been challenged in many important areas of research policy. I agree with the representative, Eriksen Soreide, that it is important that such priorities remain constant over time. Research is a long-term activity of a nature that requires a good planning horizon. The scientific community is therefore dependent on research policy priorities not shifting in line with political wins. The work on the Research Communication gave a thorough discussion of the areas of research that Norway should prioritise in the future. The Research Communication also states that the priorities selected are designed at an overall level, and the Communication proposes to further specify priorities in dialogue with research environments, and with society and business. How far a government goes in terms of concreteising the different priorities, and how much effort is being made in different fields, will vary somewhat. This is not only due to different political preferences, but to the fact that concreteisation and clarification can force themselves through new and up-to-date knowledge. In recent years, we have gained a particular knowledge of climate change on the planet. After I took over as a research minister, I have called in particular for strengthening research to meet the climate challenge, research for increased value creation and research for increased well-being. These are areas that are also a priority in the Research Communication. The Research Communication calls for the strengthening of research on energy and the environment. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has now established with even greater certainty that climate change is man-made and that we need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions rapidly. We need to identify climate change, find good solutions for CO2 management and develop renewable and climate-friendly energy technologies and systems. Norway has natural resources, environments of competence, enterprises and societal conditions that can make a significant contribution to addressing these knowledge challenges. Long-term and strong research efforts are needed to enable a transition to a better ecological balance society, both in Norway and globally. It is therefore gratifying, and I expect that I share the joy of Eriksen Soreide, that government and opposition through the climate agreement agree to bet on research on new and renewable energy already this year, where 70 million. kr is granted in 2008, and in 2009 there will be an increased bet of a total of 300 million. kr. By 2010, the total public contribution to renewable energy research shall be at least 600 million. kr. In addition to this, there are other measures in the conciliation, such as: a contingency plan for climate research. This is something that I think has been accomplished in a very fine way through a common effort between government and opposition. It is also in the climate agreement that there should be a separate plan for the use of just this money for research into alternative energy. Public authorities cannot solve the knowledge challenges related to climate change alone. Here, as Eriksen Soreide was also involved, it is very important that businesses and businesses, small and large enterprises, within their sector and in their way contribute to the development of solutions that help us create a more climate-friendly society. In general, the development and use of new knowledge will be crucial for our ability to convert and for the ability to increase the value creation of the Norwegian economy in the future. Through increased research efforts, we can ensure a welfare society for future generations as well. This is in line with the Research Communication, where research-driven innovation and innovation are a horizontal priority. In order to develop a more knowledge-based business in Norway, it is essential to strengthen business-oriented research, in order to stimulate business to increase its own innovation activity. The Government believes that government should stimulate and support research investments in industry, and will this year present a key communication on innovation, which shows how this work can be strengthened. Norway has a very competitive economy, although business researches less than in countries with which it is natural to compare. The explanations of this are many, but one that's drawn out is the way we've organized our society. The Nordic model of society is among others: based on high social and economic security, a well-developed public sector, small social differences and good public welfare systems. In order to maintain and strengthen the Nordic model of society, research is needed for increased well-being, for social cohesion and for a more inclusive society. Increased research efforts shall contribute to a better life for the individual and ensure that we have a democratic working life, where possible knowledge and competence. This is in line with the research report, which states: ‘More knowledge and research efforts are needed to contribute to understanding and addressing key societal challenges such as increased value creation, further development of the Norwegian welfare society, democratic participation, fair distribution and long-term sustainable development.’ In order to support and realize research aimed at the three areas I have identified, it is also necessary to systematically strengthen our common knowledge base. Basic knowledge, sufficient numbers of researchers and up-to-date scientific equipment are both prerequisites and tools to meet the knowledge challenges we face. Basic research with a focus on real science is a horizontal priority in the research communication. A number of fascinations and applications for the system of centres of excellence have shown that Norway has many good and some world-leading basic research environments. At the same time, it is pointed out that quality is too varied and that there is untapped potential in many fields. So if we're going to be leading internationally, we're going to have to invest even more in basic research than we do today. The so-called portfolio analysis of the Research Council has also shown that basic, long-term research needs to be strengthened in several fields. Norway has a particular need to strengthen basic research in the field of mathematical science and technology. In order to increase research efforts and meet the major knowledge challenges in business, academia and the public sector, we also rely on a sufficient number of researchers. This government is strongly committed to recruitment and has created 700 new scholarship positions in the State budgets for 2006 and 2008. This year, the government will present a major report on recruitment, such as: discusses the future need for recruitment to Norwegian research, and will also have some important instruments to stimulate even better recruitment. The global challenges we face cannot be solved alone. Global challenges require both international and bilateral cooperation. Participation in the 7th Framework Programme of the European Union has been a very important priority for this government and is a follow-up to the comprehensive priority of international cooperation in the research communication. In addition, we have strengthened cooperation with a number of priority countries. We have also chosen to enter the International Polar Year, where between 50,000 and 100,000 scientists and technicians from 60 nations participate. The emphasising of some areas of research in some contexts does not, of course, mean that everything else is forgotten or neglected. Fortunately, both research itself and the debate on research are socially relevant, because it reflects a dynamic and knowledge-seeking societal development. My need to promote some areas of research is also due to the direction taken by the research policy debate in recent years. A great deal of the debate has been about exactly what the representative Eriksen Soreide was at, the distance to the 3-percentile of research efforts. That is, of course, an important question, and we have debated that here in the Stortinget earlier. But that should not be the only thing we discuss. We also need to have a debate on the challenges to be addressed and the areas to be strengthened. As a new research minister, I have called for a more nuanced and case-oriented debate. I have tried to fill the role of research minister by also seeing a coordination challenge within the government, coordination of the state councils that have a research responsibility, and that as a research minister, I have a coordinating responsibility for the overall research that the government through various departments contributes to. I also have a regular, good contact with the Norwegian Research Council, which is a very important help in this work. I hope that this interpellation can be the beginning of a constructive debate on research policy priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-29.ana.ud995e180	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It was interesting to note that the Council of State, as I interpret it, now also wants a little renewed debate on the areas to be strengthened. I believe that, no matter how we turn around and turn around in this debate, we need to be clear that the priorities contained in the research report are also fixed. Then you might want to have a discussion about which of the fixed areas need extra strength. However, we must not allow ourselves to be tempted in time for 2010 by ever-increasing new areas which, in isolation, could require both good and long-term research, but which will get in the way of, or exacerbate, areas that have already been decided to invest in. It is also what the research community has put forward, namely a belief in a long-term commitment, both economically and professionally. Governments mention that one of the areas is basic research with a focus on real science. That's absolutely right. Then it's a little strange to me what sort of priorities the government is doing in that field financially, because it's absolutely right that the government budget for 2008 allocates money to 350 new scholarship positions, after there was no funding for a single grant in the 2007 budget. Two thirds of those scholarship positions are earmarked for MNT subjects - right into the real-time subject discussion - and that's good. The problem is that those scholarship positions are not even half funded. In turn, there will be problems and challenges in terms of both quality and institutional guidance capacity. Not least, there will be problems for many institutions to fill the scholarship positions well enough. So I just want to associate a comment with the discussion about the economy and the distance to the 3-percentile. It's not more than two and a half years since we decided on the goal. Nothing has happened dramatically in the Norwegian economy since then, in the sense that we have about the same industrial structure that we had, and we're going to have it by 2010. We have about the same good economic times that we had, even though they're even a little bit better than what we might have anticipated. But it's really just an extra incentive to bet more. It is therefore quite incomprehensible why the current government started its period of government, for example. to cut DKK 25 billion in the planned increase in the Research Fund - money that would give a good start to the research communication, and a good start for the priorities - thematically and in other ways - that were in the research communication. I welcome a renewed discussion on research policy. I do not think we can discuss this often enough, and it is also important for the research communities that what they are doing is on the political agenda. But: There is a difference between giving completely new signals and new priorities and strengthening the priorities that are already there.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-29.ana.ud995e193	I thought I clarified in my post that of course I don't find new areas of research, but on the contrary, I underline and highlight some of those that are already in the Research Communication - research areas that have gained a renewed interest and commitment, where the knowledge needs have been revealed as being quite large. I specifically mentioned research on renewable energy in climate action. I don't think we disagree on that, and I feel a great commitment to loyally follow up the important work that lies in the Storting's decision of the Research Communication. It's interesting what Eriksen Soreide says about other countries. We might well imagine that we have a research report in Norway, for example. Every four years, and then we give Stortinget an opportunity to discuss a new basis. I don't promise anything about this right now, but for the time being, what we have is what we have. But it is important for me and for the Storting to think about what good opportunities and opportunities we have to discuss the important research policy challenges. With regard to the discussion of relationships between goals - which is a demanding goal, as I have said several times - and resources, it is important for me to stress that, together with my colleague, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, I have taken the initiative to facilitate the participation of industry in fulfilling and delivering its share towards this demanding goal. For me, it's important to think so that the state has to do its own thing by increasing as much as we can. From last year to this year, research efforts have increased by DKK 1.2 billion. We must not forget that in all the discussion about percentages, but the efforts of business could be much greater. We have taken the initiative, and will take the initiative, to discuss with relevant business actors and to try to get an open discussion of instruments in relation to objectives, including business R & D efforts. The government wants to discuss with this what will be good and realistic ambitions for our business research efforts, and what role business can play in dialogue and interaction with governments. I see this with coordination of research efforts within the Government, good contact with the Research Council and the efforts we have managed to make, both through grant allocation and through the increase in the Research Fund, which is now NOK 66 billion, as an important contribution to strengthening Norwegian research. We need the debate all the time, and I am very pleased that the Stortinget is engaged in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-29.ana.ud995e204	Like the Minister of Research, I am pleased that the representative Eriksen Soreide is raising an important debate on research priorities. She is based on an opinion in the Evening Post where the Council of State says she wants an action plan for research where climate, health and well-being are given priority. As we have heard, the representative Eriksen Soreide believes that that opinion partly contradicts the priorities of the research communication. I do not share this perception of the Council of State's opinions. I see it more as a concreteisation of the priorities laid down in the Research Communication. The world has gone further since the research report was adopted, and we have experienced a strong climate debate, which will, of course, also shape what we want from new research projects. However, I think the Council of State is very clear that precisely research into energy and the environment is very central to climate research. This is fully in line with the decision taken in connection with the research notification. In 2007, we joined the 7th EU Framework Programme for Research, Technological Development and Demonstration Activities. This is the world's largest international research cooperation, with an economic framework of DKK 400 billion. Our quota for the period up to 2013 will be approx. $9.3 billion. By participating in this programme, Norway will strengthen the quality of its own research, gain impetus for innovation and value creation, and cooperate with others to meet global knowledge challenges in key areas. The priorities of the Council of State are also those adopted as main fields of action in this programme. Health will be a central theme, as is the decision in the Research Communication. Research into both nanotechnologies and biotechnology will be central to building on the health challenges we face. Although I perceive the Council of State's message as more in line with the Research Communication than the representative Eriksen Soreide does, there is an important debate about how we prioritise research and who we involve in the priority debate. There is also a question raised, I think, about how we present our priorities so that they are understood in the environments that conduct research, so that they can feel confident that the research objectives are constant over time. The Research Council, in consultations here in Stortinget, has expressed its wish for a more comprehensive overview of policy priorities, as research priorities and resources lie in several departments. It is difficult to get an overview of the priorities you have discussed and recorded in advance of a budget that have been followed up. It is therefore positive when the Council of State says that she is committed to developing a more comprehensive plan of the priorities of the Government as a whole in relation to research. It will contribute to concreteising research policy priorities and will facilitate dialogue with both the Research Council and all others involved in the topic. I therefore support the Council of State in that idea, and look forward to a plan being put in place. Such a plan could also facilitate the coordination of research efforts in several areas. We have many challenges in the field of research. One of the main challenges is the recruitment of new researchers. This applies not only to recruiting a sufficient number of new researchers, but also to recruiting researchers in the areas we prioritise, and to achieving the research policy objectives we have set ourselves. It helps little with decisions in Stortinget if we don't have people with the right skills to translate our decisions into action. I would therefore like to take this opportunity once again to state that I am looking forward to the announcement of research recruitment, which the Council of State has notified. There will be an important debate on what we want to achieve from research policy objectives in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-29.ana.ud995e221	There are some areas where, as politicians, we have to raise our eyes a little higher than usual. This applies to the greater part of research. This with long-term, this with being able to have a red thread in it a do, not creating uncertainty about where to go and when we're going to achieve these goals, is very important, although of course we're going to be flexible. I know that many have raised the issue of the long-termity of research, and that there should perhaps have been a four-year budgeting in some areas. I think research is just such an area. The interpellant raises important questions in relation to priorities. In previous debates, we have discussed the ability to achieve the objective of 3 pst. of gross domestic product for research by 2010. We have discussed the Research Fund's intentions, and we have discussed the lack of resources. In fact, if we are to succeed in Norway, we need to give far greater priority to research, but also to development, innovation and, not to say, commercialisation. Internationalisation was mentioned and should be one of the priorities. But we actually see that we're slowing down backwards. Other countries have much more research in focus. Other countries with which we compete have much more focus on innovation. And if Norway is to do this in the future, we have to stand together. We need to get an increased motivation for the students to study abroad. Our students need to leave, not least to see Norway from outside. It's important that we facilitate this. Similarly, we need to facilitate the increased availability of skilled researchers to Norway. Here again, we see that the government is not as clear as we would have liked. We see other countries hijacking the wise heads. Furthermore, the Progress Party hopes that the Government will see the importance of strengthening cooperation between Nordic countries in both research and innovation. It was mentioned here by the interpellant that we were on a committee trip to Sweden last week. In fact, one of the topics we debated was to have an increased exchange of information and closer cooperation between the Nordic countries, just to be attractive as a base for creating a professional environment for countries outside the Nordic region. In fact, 25 million people are slightly different from 4.5 million people, as is the case in Norway when we stand alone. That's why we need to get this collaboration much better than it's been for now. It will also enhance the attractiveness and exchange of both Nordic students and researchers, as well as researchers from outside the Nordic region. Cooperation between institutes and business needs to be much more focused. This has also been mentioned now both in the articles of the Council of State and in the articles of the inter-pellant. It'll be so easy to just say this on the platform when we debate an interpellation like today, but it actually has to be something more than empty words. Here we need to put in a closer dialogue with the business community. At our hearing last week, one of the main messages from those who were at the hearing was that institutes and businesses can go hand in hand. It's not useful to produce an entire pile that nobody wants. This must also be given priority. We saw in Sweden that it was also a major area for success. Quality in research was mentioned. It's not easy to research if the quality is not present. With regard to many of the words that have been mentioned today, we have - and when I say we, it's not just the Progress Party, it's all the parties - to raise our eyes and come up higher, to see Norway in the international perspective. All the lots have a joint responsibility to raise research and development to the level it deserves. Interpellant Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide's response to the Council of State was that nothing has happened in two and a half years. Achieving the 3pst target by 2010 is firm. I know that the Council of State not so long ago here in this room mentioned that it was firm. I might wish there were a little bit clearer leads on how we're going to achieve this goal. Now it's not exactly what the interpellant would have answered today, but I might want the Council to mention how we're going to achieve this by 2010. So finally, we in the Progress Party want to continue to prioritise this in our budgets, and then it really just remains to see if the Government will prioritise this in its budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-29.ana.ud995e244	The representative, Eriksen Soreide, is drawing up a very important debate on research and on research priorities. This is an important debate. It is important, as the Council of State has also stressed, that the objectives of the Research Communication are at the heart of what the Government is doing in the field of research policy. It is important that we have clear visions and clear goals in relation to what we want to achieve, that we show predictability, and that we show long-termity in the goals that we want to have. It is also important that we have coordination of research. Once the Council of State has announced some strategic plans in some areas, I would like to welcome this very much. If we look back a little bit on previous messages - among other things. the message that came before this message -- it was so during the period after that message came, there were some areas that were not prioritised, which came very high up. One example of this is nanotechnology. There are none of us here in the Chamber today who are saying that we are sorry that nanotechnology has been given so much space, and that money has been spent on this. In fact, it turns out that society is evolving, and that we are changing. That is why I am very pleased that the Council of State is active in this area. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change came back with a hurricane message for a little while, where they indicate that climate change is man-made, and that we alone can do something to change this. What they can attach with 100 pst. security is that the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has made mistakes in the past. The changes have gone much faster than they thought. We must also remember that the background to the end of the climate panel is a conservative estimate. This is a common multiple, and a lot of people think that the challenges we're facing are even bigger than what we think today. This year's Peace Prize went to the United Nations Climate Panel and Al Gore. We have to do something now before it's too late. It's important. That is why I am very pleased that the Council of State has put the climate even further on the agenda than the research report initially did. We need to map climate change. We have to map the seabed in a better way than what we're doing. We have to look at our birds. We need to spend more money to look at what's happening to the Gulf Stream in relation to climate change. We need to develop renewable energy technologies and systems. We have to bet on sea windmills. And we have very bad time. The climate agreement at Stortinget is a very good start on this. It shows ways and new objectives, and concrete objectives, in relation to obliging Stortinget to a stepping-up plan. 70 million. kr is now coming this year. In 2009, it is certain that at least 300 million. kr will be included in the budget and in 2010 there will be a further escalation of at least 900 million. kr. The bet is also very concisis in relation to sea-windmills. A very important principle in this agreement is that we should use as much for climate research in the future as we use for petroleum research. This with predictability in this field, and the fact that we want to bet on a stepping-up plan, is incredibly important. I look forward to a strategic plan by the Council of State in this area. I would like that very, very welcome. The council also stated that in order to get a predictable and good research, we need to recruit, and we need to have predictability in relation to recruitment. This government has got up to 700 scholarship positions, and in this research report, we need to put together a good and clear strategy for both recruitment and that we can get the young people to choose the research profession - because we need that. At the NHO conference this year, the business community - and they gave very clear signals about it - announced that they wanted to commit and bring more resources to equipment. This is a very good and important signal that shows that this government is actually working closely against business. In order to ensure a transition from the crude oil economy to a green knowledge economy, we need to invest in research.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-29.ana.ud995e261	The title of the research report was: Will for Research. When we listen to the representatives of the Government here today, it sounds like that will is there. But that's what Prime Minister Stoltenberg said quite often at the beginning -- we don't hear it so often now: "Don't think about what we're saying, but focus on what we're actually doing." So the willingness to prioritize research may not be as strong as it should be. It is often shown that one gives more money from year to year for research, that the curves are going the right way, and that it goes up even under this government. But that's what we agreed with the Will for Research paper that they should do. It is now that for every year that goes, we are one year closer to a gas-free and oil-free nation. That means, my friends, that we have to have a much bigger bet, a much bigger focus, and we have to really dry to prioritize. It should be such that all the cuts of rest and the missing creations of these should have been avoided. The Christian People's Party's ambition is to do as the halling Bøkko did in the world cup of the weekend, he stands out completely--and then wins. We're not going to take a Dutch twist and don't leave it up. So until that interpellant takes up, whether there are in addition changes in structural or thematic themes, possibly technology initiatives. After having been in the family, culture and administration committee for one period, I see why the Council of State, for example. has also referred to well-being as a dedicated area of activity, at least if it can be understood that it is not just the level of welfare systems on which it is focused. Within fields such as child protection we lack essential competence to look at the cause and effect and methodology, whether we do the right things for the most vulnerable children. At the same time, I see that having constant changes in strategies at all is not good. We need long-term commitment to research, and whether we are talking about the economic challenges, the structural or the thematic priorities. It's not like that when it comes to research that we can say: ready, finished, research! - and then say, stop! It's a much longer and tougher matter to get started, and it's all about standing. I'll give you a quote: ‘These members indicate that the lack of a binding economic escalation plan was a weakness in the research notification addressed in 2000. In addition to the fact that an escalation plan will act as a push against the annual budgetary procedure, a plan could also improve planning opportunities for the heavy research communities.» These were the words of SV in connection with the treatment of St.meld. No 20 for 2004-2005 in Innst. S. No 232 for 2004-2005. It is clear that we are pleased that there are now signs of dialogue and transparency towards business about how their efforts can be strengthened. I think everyone in this room agrees that we really need business on the road to get this done. If in that context I can allow myself to give a little advice: this government's handling of e.g. The tax FUNN scheme is not to give good signals to business. We have received many feedback that the system is working. Cutting it, before it's evaluated, is something other than giving good signals to business that we want them on the track. The evaluation that has now come has given us good answers. It says that with some changes this could be a pretty good arrangement, and we should bet on doing it even better. Obviously, we should want more research on most of it. We heard the representative Lena Jensen say that we have to, we have to - she wanted too many themes. But I think it's important for a small nation like Norway to dry up its priorities, and therefore also concentrate on the professional environment, so we get the quality of what we deliver. Staying ability is important. Research is a long-term affair and the authorities should not change objectives and priorities without sound justification and discussion. That means that any change in priorities and goals, whether the thematic, structural or theological -- not the theological, but the technological, president, the Christian People's Party-representative in me was a little high -- they must not change through either opinions or interpellations. This should be done in discussions with the research communities and in reflection on the changing needs of society, and well anchored here in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-29.ana.ud995e281	It is important to talk about research priorities, as the representative Eriksen Soreide has given us today the opportunity. As the interpellant refers to, an aggregate increase has defined the priorities of research policy. The intention and significance of this is to give the sector a steering signal and predictability beyond the annual budgetary decision. It is very important in a policy area like this, where several bodies are responsible for monitoring the objectives. After hearing the Council of State's response today, I see no direct contradiction between the views of interpellant Eriksen Soreide, who is in the government's follow-up to the Research Communication, and what the Council of State has said today. The issues raised by the Research Communication are precisely these issues raised by the Council of State and that followed up by the Government. As I see it, an action plan for climate, health and well-being will not be incorporating any new themes, but will be a follow-up to the previously adopted priorities. I think that the major and important climate agreement between most political parties at Stortinget in this context underlines the importance of climate research. In fact, it calls for increased research efforts. When energy and the environment are mentioned in the Research Communication, these are different aspects of the same issue. There are, as everyone knows, obvious and countless links between climate, energy and the environment. Research and development on the technological side is therefore necessary for good CO2 management. In addition, much remains to be done with regard to renewable energy, to mention something. In my opinion, this is entirely in line with the research report and Stortinget's intention. It is important that research policy is clear on thematic and overall priorities, but in a concrete follow-up, the main priorities need to be broken down in relation to needs and relevance. As the Council of State mentioned in its statement, it is important that research policy priorities do not shift in line with the political winds. I support the fact that this is essential. Speaking of wind: the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has produced several reports, the latest in 2007. That report supports and reinforces the results of previous reports. That there is a warming of the climate system is raised beyond doubt. A 2001 report says that it could get up to 5.8 degrees warmer during this century. In the latest report, the most pessimistic development shows that it can actually get up to 6.4 degrees warmer, sea level is likely to rise, etc. I just mention these examples to show that we need high-quality climate research, and it's urgent. Now I've spent a lot of my time in climate. I think climate is the most important topic we can talk about when it comes to all the world's challenges. When the representative Eriksen Soreide in the interpellation also mentions another theme, such as health-welfare versus health-food, as it says in the research report, the related themes are intertwined and form a whole - where, according to my concepts, climate comes to the top. Research costs. It's important to stretch. It is important that business is more involved in research and spends more money on it. As mentioned earlier in this debate, the Church, Education and Research Committee has just returned from a study trip in Sweden. It was very interesting and relevant in relation to the themes we're dealing with here. In the field of research, they have been very skilled in Sweden. They had at some point used 4.2 pst. of GDP for research. This has to a large extent been done thanks to business. As I understood it, the percentage now goes down, and researchers-Sweden are concerned about crises in industry and the purchase of businesses. This could be offset by the amount used for research. It may be okay that we have with this thinking, sail if there has not been a problem that the Norwegian industry has taken too much of a boost. If we're going to learn something from Sweden in this context, it's enough that business and state have to pull together. Discussions on research and priorities are good, but it is unfortunate if the debate gives a false impression, which can contribute to the opposite effect than the long-term and predictability on which research policy depends. We all want research policy to be consistent with the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-29.ana.ud995e307	The left considers that the interpellant is asking questions about both parliamentary and popular Norwegians, whether the government is really getting a plan within the plan because there has been a lack of money. I understand that the Council of State says that the plan, i.e. the research report, is firm, so that the question of whether there is a reserve plan, whether there is a plan B, I see as buried, in the sense that plan A, the research report, is there. I also agree with the Council of State that the communication of research, with all its instruments, does not, of course, prevent the areas of activity that are there from being focused both on renewable energy and on climate challenges. On the contrary, the climate agreement that has been concluded allows some points to be drawn close to some of the ambitions of the research report. So it's like that -- and I want to say that -- that the research report we have is going to extend towards 2010. As far as the climate is concerned, we know that a meeting in Copenhagen in 2009 is an important milestone - then you have to look at how it is with the knowledge you have in relation to the goals you have set. I think there's a reason to say that. What really worries the Left is what kind of long-termity, what kind of predictability you have in terms of research -- because I see that that's what the Council of State intends to do. Regardless of the debate we have on the framework - I will leave the debate at present - what happens to what is absolutely crucial to predictability and long-termity, namely the margins of freedom you have within the financial framework. Let's take them in order and start in business. We're starting with the TaxFUNN system, which the sitting government -- right before the Council of State joined it, but she's a member of the Government -- tightens up, red tapes. Fortunately, we have just received a review of the SSB, which says that the tax fund scheme is very good, it works, it produces good results. Then the left hand message in this room is that you have to take the consequences of it. And in the choice between creating a grant scheme without a ceiling, which is also a way of creating a long-term bond in the Ministry of Finance in Norway, it is said that the option is to build on tax incentives, tax incentives. The advice of the left is to go back to it when we've got such a heavy and real evaluation that we've got from the SSB. It is a way of re-establishing predictability and long-termity in the efforts of key sectors of business, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises. With regard to the government's own instruments, the fund was, in itself, a major effort, a political attempt to create a long-term commitment to the economy. It is clear that when the return of the fund is simply spent on current expenditure on the internal path of the Government, it means that the long-term commitment to create margins of freedom, to think new and to think strategically, is substantially narrowed. Reconquering freedom of action for the return of the Fund is quite important in order to create long-termity and predictability in research. As far as the Research Council is concerned, there shall be advisory services for the Government, and the Research Council's council is largely not in the current budget - by which the Council of State has inherited but is nevertheless obliged to do so. In addition, the Research Council is placed under nine-time detailed administration by subjecting it to detailed instructions. Then there's no margin of freedom left. When the Research Council's budget at the top of it is shrunk, you are to the degrees set under the detailed management of an administration that breaks with any attempt to think long-term -- long-term is something that I perceive is the intention of the interpellant -- and I perceive that the Council of State has the will, but then it's the ability and the ability to deliver that is the next point. Similarly, cuts in basic appropriations for Norwegian universities and colleges also affect the long term in the sense of having painful discussions about cutting the quality of education - we have a difficult issue now about quality reform in higher education - and research. If we take a visit to the neighbouring country we visited, Sweden, it is possible that it is a ‘gyser’ in some contexts to know that the Swedish actually have a four-year budget proposal - a proposition - and in my language means a proposition which is more than a notification. So they have a proposition that goes on in some important areas of Swedish policy, which is at the heart of it, and that absolutely everyone involved in research can relate to. I would say that recapitulating freedom of action for the Research Council, for the return of the Research Fund, for the reintroduction of the TaxFUNN and for the strengthening of the basis, is doing something that I also perceive is the intention of the interpellant, namely to create long-termity and predictability within the areas. It is this which is the formidable challenges facing the Council of State. The left is strong for these margins of freedom to be there, and we also believe that we should learn from those who in selected areas understand that budgets must extend over more than one year, be multiannual, as the representatives of the Progress Party took up here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-29.ana.ud995e331	Research is essential for Norway, as a nation, to have something to live on in the future when the oil and gas chargers end. The centre party is engaged in value creation across the country, and research is essential to boost innovation and alternative industries. We have major challenges for the future in terms of further value creation. This value creation must be carried out in harmony with the environment and contribute to a better distribution, both nationally and internationally. I am pleased that the Government has set ambitious goals and is aware of the importance of research. But it's not just for business development and value creation research is important. Climate emissions and the threat to the environment show that investing in environmental research is the right way to go and will be an important piece to reduce global climate emissions. The fact that the Minister of Research emphasises the environment and climate as important areas for the Government is therefore very enjoyable, both for the climate and for industrial development in new areas, and is in line with what a total increase was addressed in the Research Communication. The government is following up research on energy and placing great emphasis on new and renewable energy. It is important for the environment, not least to ensure clean energy for both the population and industry. We are a small country with large natural resources. We have a responsibility to manage resources in the best possible way, so that we create values, and so that the next generation can participate in this resource wealth. For a small nation with a high level of knowledge, it is essential that we take care of this value and take advantage of it as a advantage in competition with other countries. As a research nation, Norway needs to research and further develop its competences in areas where we have special advantages - in order to exploit resources and competences effectively and trigger a maximum value creation potential. I was a participant at the Lerchendal Conference in Trondheim a few weeks ago. There were many people who were clear that we cannot do research for the sake of research, but that we have to dry up to sharpen our skills in some selected areas in order to be the best at some of them. We have to dry up the priority of some areas over others. It's a sensible strategy if we're going to compete with others. In addition to a stronger focus on research and a specific focus on selected areas, it is important that we also have strategies that increase research efforts and thus achieve our ambitious objectives. The government has stressed that, in addition to the public contribution, more research needs to be done by the private sector. We need to encourage skills development and innovation in business. For the Central Party, it's important that it happens to both the larger and smaller companies. Today there is too little research in small and medium-sized enterprises. The centre party is committed to finding solutions here, so that the type of enterprise can also participate in knowledge development and innovation in priority research areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-29.ana.ud995e344	First, I would like to thank you for the debate. I think it has been a good and partly informative debate. It is important that we continue to debate research policies and priorities, because it will not be less important in the coming years. Nevertheless, I would like to link some comments to some of the things that have been said. The reason why I went up the interpellation is simply the signals that have been given over time, and as I see it, have broken a lot - both if the 3 pst. goal is reached, what thematic bets we are going to have, and whether what is in the research message is solid. At all, the signals, which have been cracking, have been supported by the government research budget, which has not been able to contribute to the objectives we have set in the research communication. For example, there are several people who have been involved in the SkattenFUNN scheme, which I believe is a scheme that needs to be put back in its original state and would like to be strengthened beyond it. In addition, we have discussed the use of the research fund's returns, which is also a very important tool for ensuring the long-term and predictability of research. The representative Lena Jensen believed that what happened at the NHO annual conference was a signal that the government is working closely with the industry. Well, what came out there was on the contrary a demand for the Government to grant 20 billion dollars over ten years for scientific equipment. After all, it wasn't a tip on the government's shoulder because you had given enough money to scientific equipment. So the reality is probably something different. It is quite clear that in Norway we have many large, cost-intensive investments both in scientific equipment and in the priority areas. It's going to take a lot of us. The government today is not measured against previous research notifications or previous governments, but it is measured by the research notification that has been cross-politically adopted by the Storting and that we have an obligation to discharge. Future generations will measure our efforts on what we did when we had the largest economic space, what we did when the opportunities to invest for the future were greater. If in that period we leave off doing the things that ensure value creation in the future, that ensure the welfare of future generations, yes, then we have failed our mission. That's now we have the chance, that's now we're going to do it, and that's now the government has to meet the objectives and priorities contained in the research message.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-29.ana.ud995e357	I would also like to thank you for the debate, and will finally address some of the important challenges that several of the debaters have been facing, mainly long-term, such as, among other things. The representative Dørum was inside, and several others too. We have a very special challenge here in Norway. We are slightly different from both Sweden and Denmark, both countries that have managed to allocate some longer-term budgetary allocations to important areas of activity. That's not the Norwegian system. We have budgetary practices that go from one year to the next, and that is a challenge for demanding areas, such as agriculture. research, to adapt it to the annual budgets. I am aware of both the differences and the benefits of being able to have a little longer term in research planning, and that's one of the reasons why I think it's important to think about plans. Of course, the best thing would be if you had managed to get commitment plans, so that the research communities had the predictability. There I know we have a challenge, and others have pointed it out. Of course, it's a question I think it's very important to work with. What I was concerned about earlier on freedom of action, not least for the Research Council, is that, through a separate State Research Council, more co-ordinated the government's own research efforts through the various departments. I think that would be an advantage for the Research Council, which otherwise relates to many different government councils. They will, of course, also do so in the future, but it is an advantage to have this view coordinated with the Government's eyes, so that the Government can follow up the important priorities that are now at the root of the adopted Research Communication. In order to achieve this in the best possible way within the framework of what you have at all times, I believe that the interaction within the Government and between the Government and the Research Council will help to increase the freedom of action. The question that still arises then is: how are we going to achieve the goals? We have ambitious targets. I have said a little if necessary interaction with business, which represents a very important part of this, and I will also take this opportunity to say that, after all, there has been an increase in the last three budgets of DKK 3.5 billion for research. We hope to be able to stimulate business even more when it comes to being part of the important effort we need to have in the future. So to achieve all the good goals for both the state and the business community, we need more concrete plans - in addition to targets - and that's the main reason why I think it makes sense to plan these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-29.ana.ud995e370	The debate on substance is closed. So 1 is over. Because both the inter-pellant and the Council of State are talking about a previous ‘adopted’ message, the President will draw attention to the fact that notifications are not being adopted. They shall be annexed to the minutes. Any decisions are promoted in a suspension and voted into the Stortinget. There is no wading over groceries, and therefore it is wrong to give the impression that a message has been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-29.ana.ud995e386	As the debate in this matter developed in Odelstinget, we are of the opinion that this proposal is better suited as a transmission proposal. I would therefore ask that the proposal be converted into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-29.ana.ud995e393	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-29.ana.ud995e409	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1848]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-29.ana.ud995e425	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1848]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-29.ana.ud995e433	Storting goes to voting in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-29.ana.ud995e443	There will be a vote on the proposal from Trond Helleland, representative of Great Britain, on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, sent from the Odelsting meeting on 17 January 2008. This proposal is transformed into a transmission proposal and reads as follows: ‘It is recommended to the Government to allow the Ministry to give its consent that tolls used for the operation of public transport within a plan for a comprehensive and coordinated transport system which has received the prior agreement of the Storting can be channelled directly to a regional or local management company.’;» The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-29.ana.ud995e456	A vote shall be taken on the proposal made by Mr Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right from the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 17 January 2008. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government immediately to bring an action for the repeal of Section 7a of the Road Traffic Act with immediate effect.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-29.ana.ud995e475	A vote shall be taken on the proposal made by Mr Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of 17 January 2008 of the Odelstinget. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to bring an immediate action against the repeal of § 27 and § 27A of the Road Code with immediate effect.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-29.ana.ud995e497	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
