ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06-lower.ana.ud1858e40	This proposal concerns a proposal for amendments to the Law of 12 June 1981 on mutual funds. It is proposed to open a new category of mutual funds, known as special funds. Special funds will include hedge funds and similar fund structures that are able to benefit from a wider range of investment techniques than is currently permitted by the Swedish Securities Fund Act. Investment in this type of fund may result in a higher risk of losses compared to investments in general unit trusts. So this proposition opens up so that hedge funds can be established and marketed in Norway. Today, the establishment and marketing of hedge funds is prohibited in Norway. However, Norwegian investors are free to purchase parts of foreign hedge funds on their own initiative. The Terra scandal is an example that Norwegian investors, in this case Norwegian municipalities, have also purchased foreign hedge funds. Many suggest that these investors may not fully understand what they were investing in. The legislative proposal therefore places great emphasis on information for customers. The marketing and sale of specialised fund components may take place only after a preliminary investment council has been provided that complies with the mandatory investment advice rules laid down by the Securities Trading Act. This has a group committee behind it. Even when it applies to the rest of the setting, it's essentially unity. Compared to the Government's proposal, the Committee has only one change, and that applies to § 6-13, first paragraph, No. 2 - where the Committee is in favour of an extension of the right to marketing. A comprehensive committee here points out that ‘Norwegian registered special funds according to the proposal for vpfl. Paragraphs 1 to 1 new third paragraph may invest their funds in a foreign mutual fund if the foreign fund and its management are subject to prudential supervision in the home Member State and there is satisfactory cooperation between the supervisory authorities of the management company’s home Member State and Norway ’. A single committee here believes that ‘the requirement that supervisory cooperation must be established between the management company’s home Member State and Norway should apply mutatis mutandis to the marketing of foreign mutual funds in Norway and that there is no reason to require supervisory cooperation with the authorities of the fund’s home Member State’. So there is a complete consensus on this in the committee, and I assume that neither does the Minister of Finance have any objection to that change. However, it is not in all areas that the Committee has been brought together. This is primarily the case with regard to the framework conditions for the Norwegian fund industry and the guidance to be provided in relation to regulatory design and dispensation practices. Thus, Norwegian investors can today invest in foreign hedge funds. If the operating framework for special funds from Norway is worse than the framework conditions in other countries, for example: In Ireland, this could lead to the development of the Norwegian fund industry in the years ahead of his potential. The opposition therefore asks that the terms of the fund industry be taken into account when designing the regulations and enforcing the legislation. If the regulations are positive, we believe that special funds, hedge funds, can become “flag home” and thus contribute to increased value creation and skills building in Norway. But this is a setting that is essentially consistent. The one change in relation to the government's draft law means that, in my opinion, the financial committee's work has resulted in a good legislative change even better. Finally, I just want to correct an error. On the front of this setting, reference is made to the Securities Trading Act. The right shall, of course, be ‘securities law’. This is a typing error that I think would be easy to fix.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06-lower.ana.ud1858e66	I expect that there will be a lower temperature in this matter than it was at the end of the big meeting, at least inside the hall, because as I assess it, the differences in this case are like some grains of sand in the Sahara. The matter we are dealing with today has been through a long and thorough process under several governments. It was almost five years ago that the Ministry of Finance asked the Credit Authority to draw up proposals for special fund rules. I am therefore pleased that this bill on special fund rules is now available, and that we will be able to finalise the legislative changes in the spring session. Capital management environments contribute to creating values in line with traditional services industries and traditional industries. Too many people don't know how to think in those paths. There is a high demand for special fund shares among Norwegian investors. As I see it, the option to open up Norwegian hedge funds, or special funds, is that Norwegian investors place funds in foreign special funds. Foreign special purpose funds often appear to be very closed-ended facilities, where it may be difficult to obtain information about the fund’s investors and the fund’s investments. The advantage of special funds regulated according to Norwegian circumstances is that we have both proper supervision and good regulation. An important consideration is to facilitate a wide range of investment products, in accordance with Norwegian rules. I think this is preferable to Norwegian investors turning their eyes out of the country. The matter has been a little challenging, as the Government’s proposal to regulate special funds should balance consumer concerns and take into account the framework conditions for an overall Norwegian fund industry. Today's government and -- I want to say -- not least the finance minister in a number of financial markets has had a very strong consumer focus, and I am very pleased about that. The Terra case and what happened around it, not least in the United States, and the so-called Terra municipalities both in the north and in the south, have meant that it was necessary to take an extra round before the case came to final treatment. I think the government and the ministry have balanced the consumer's concerns and the Norwegian fund industry in a very good way. In the opinion of the Financial Committee, there is a great deal of agreement on most of the road choices in the proposal. Mr Gjermund Hagesetter has also explained this in a very straightforward and tidy manner. However, there are some areas where the opposition, or parts of the opposition, and the government parties are moving in a slightly different direction, but there are not the big conflicts to be found in this setting. Different opposition parties wish to provide, to varying degrees, guidance on where regulatory access is to be used. For example, the Progress Party wishes to add leadership to the regulatory design so that access to investment in other than financial instruments and/or deposits is extended. In addition, there is an area where an overall committee has proposed changes to the legal text. This applies to § 6-13, first paragraph, No. 2nd@item: inlistbox We believe that the requirement to establish supervisory work between the management company’s home country and Norway should apply mutatis mutandis to the marketing of foreign mutual funds in Norway. In our view, there is insufficient reason to require supervisory cooperation with the authorities of the fund’s home country. Like the Government, the majority, consisting of government parties, have wanted to show restraint in how far one should go in terms of fund-in-funds. The opposition parties do not want the proposed 25 pst limitation. of the shares as a fund may hold in one unit trust. They want to remove this restriction, so that Norwegian special funds can invest their funds 100 pst. in another fund. On the part of the government parties, we do not see the need for such a change. I would also like to point out that there are possibilities for exemptions if a mutual fund is sufficiently small in relation to another fund. The credit supervision has the possibility to consent to the establishment of mutual funds which do not comply with the provisions of Sections 4 to 9. Paragraphs 4 to 9 of the Securities Fund Act are intended to prevent management companies from exerting significant influence over an issuer company. In my view, this provision will include, inter alia: prevent mutual funds management companies from gaining too much institutional power in business. Then there is a slightly different view of the extent to which credit supervision is to be guided by the progress of regulatory work, to the new changes. The opposition lots will, in annotated form, be guided by the regulatory work, and not least not to have a restrictive effect. The majority would like the regulatory work to follow the usual procedure of general consultation in relation to the regulations which it is necessary to lay down. However, I would like to stress that the majority also want the work to be done without undue delay, but we are more reluctant to include this in comments. This matter has been going on for a very long time, and under several different governments. In conclusion, I would like to say that I am pleased that the Government's proposal has received as much support as this vote shows. The proposal from the Government to amend laws provides, in a good and not least transparent way, for the establishment and marketing of special funds in Norway. This concerns consumers, the desire for good framework conditions from the Norwegian fund industry is respected, and as I see it, it is well received in the management environment. I know from the Fund Day to the Swedish Securities Fund Association on 1 April this year that there has been an impatience in the fund industry to have this matter resolved. With today's treatment, we have come a very important step forward in a balanced way. I would therefore recommend the Committee's position on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06-lower.ana.ud1858e102	It is true that there is a great deal of consensus in the committee in this matter. If the consensus is so big that finding the difference is like finding the difference between the grains of sand in the Sahara, as the representative Jacobsen says, I'm a little bit more uncertain about. There has been a good account both of the rapporteur and of the representative Jakobsen. I just want to focus on one aspect, where the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have some special comments. They're going in one direction. They're going on with the formula. The representative Jamessen referred to this fund day as he was on 1 April, and what he called impatience from the industry. That's absolutely right. It's more than impatience. You think it's been slow. There's no criticism of the government that's now sitting, it's a criticism of things that's been going on over time. The issue is that securities trading is an emerging industry in Norway. Therefore, it is important that we adopt laws that can keep pace with developments internationally, so that we can run this business from Norway and also have it as a good industry here. Then our little concern, as we've said in our remarks, is that it's going to be too late when you leave a lot of time on the formula. This is complex legislation. It is impossible - at least quite difficult - for the Storting to nail everything in laws. This has to be laid down in regulations, but then you have to rely on this to be done fairly quickly. And even though there should be consultation deadlines on that kind of thing, we've tried to say in the notes that we think we should keep pace with these things, because developments internationally are going very, very fast. Even though we now get a little bit of what's happening, a late development in our life will mean that we'll get back on track later. But I would like to stress that the consensus that has been in the committee, which has been expressed here, and which is set out in the documents, is also important for the industry. They get predictability by the fact that there is a total collapse that means this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06-lower.ana.ud1858e113	The Odelstingsproposition on the law on special funds implies that what is referred to as hedge funds is legally marketed in Norway and that such funds can be managed, regulated and supervised from there. The word "hedge" means to secure. Originally, market participants were required to insure themselves against unexpected fluctuations in commodity prices. ‘Hedge’, i.e. insurance in Norwegian, is an investment carried out specifically to minimise or eliminate the risk of another investment. For enterprises that produce and sell goods, it may be reasonable to make use of such a scheme. This is done by concluding contracts for the future price of the goods they produce. For everyone else it is synonymous to ‘ hedge ’ with taking greater risks based on the belief in returns. It's called in the setting: ‘ Hedge funds’ are used as a common term for funds managed in a more flexible manner than traditional mutual funds, the aim of which is often to generate positive returns irrespective of market developments. This refers to a heterogeneous group of collective investments, where investment strategy and risk vary significantly and where the competence of the manager often has a greater impact on the fund’s returns compared to traditional mutual funds. ‘... Hedge funds are a composite concept of a professionally managed fund investment that has a relatively free framework for the investment activity compared to ordinary unit trusts. The main difference lies in the administrator’s freedom to sell short and borrow the portfolio. The main investment takes place in the share, interest and currency markets, where appropriate also in the commodity market and in other financial markets. The purpose of the investments is typically to provide positive returns irrespective of market developments, so-called absolute returns. Therefore, hedge funds for investors are considered to be pure speculative funds, developed to create a larger investment universe, i.e. a larger investment market. The structure and structure of these funds means that, to a much greater extent than for ordinary unit trusts, funds investing in shares quoted in future income expectations of certain companies are the quality, knowledge and ability of the AIFM to determine whether the investor receives a positive return on the investment. Increasing demands and higher expectations for AIFMs to achieve higher returns mean that they will seek more risky investments. We who regulate the legislation in this area must not be seduced by fine words and leadership statements from the industry that this is unilaterally positive. I am one of those who believe that it is not entirely positive that it is now being arranged to make such investments more easily available to Norwegian investors. I justify this by the fact that such complex financial investments are untransparent and very difficult to assess in relation to their impact on financial stability. Furthermore, I have seen statements from Norwegian actors who have established such hedge funds with management from abroad that they do not see it as likely that it will take these funds back to Norway. That is why I am not sure to what extent this bill actually contributes to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06-lower.ana.ud1858e129	Although there is now a relatively large degree of harmony among the speakers in this matter, and a great deal of consensus, as both the case-rapporteur and other speakers have been involved, I shall not hide that this is a matter which I believe has called for difficult balances between different considerations. The reason we have ended up at the conclusion that it is now permitted to establish and market special funds, or hedge funds, from Norway, is that the sum of what we now have of legislation in this area in our opinion balances the consideration of consumers and the consideration of the industry in a reasonably good way. It is not the case that there is no offer of special funds, or hedge funds, in the Norwegian market now. But it is that they are sold from foreign institutions and are not subject to the legislation we have in Norway. That legislation was significantly improved with effect from 1 November last year when new investment advice rules were introduced. This means, among other things: the provider of an investment council shall assess the suitability of the investment for the specific client. There is a significant increase in responsibility for those who treat this type of product in relation to assessing the customer's needs, whether the customer understands what to buy, etc. As a result, there has been a potential advantage that those who today feel attracted to this type of savings product can now receive better advice in purchasing them. It is important to have such provisions protecting consumers in these cases because it is perfectly obvious that investment in special funds could lead to a higher risk of loss compared to investment in the mutual funds currently offered on the Norwegian market. It is important that we also monitor and control this market, and that those who want to develop this type of product establish good, transparent and appropriate products. With these words, I am pleased that the Government agrees with its conclusion in Stortinget. However, we stress the importance of balancing the industry's desire to be able to offer what is offered internationally and the need for consumer protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06-lower.ana.ud1858e140	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 541]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06-lower.ana.ud1858e148	Odelstingen goes to voting in case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06-lower.ana.ud1858e496	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06-lower.ana.ud1858e506	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-06-lower.ana.ud1858e583	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
