ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07-lower.ana.ud295e27	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today - and considers it to be adopted. The President will propose Marit Nybakk. - Other proposals are not available, and Marit Nybakk is unanimously elected President of Odelstinget's meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07-lower.ana.ud295e52	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 65 minutes, and that speaking time be allocated as follows: the Labour Party 20 minutes, the Advance Party 15 minutes, the Right 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes and the Left 5 minutes. The President will also propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07-lower.ana.ud295e61	This is a day of joy for all those who have been occupied by them who are insulted and left behind in criminal proceedings. I myself have had many meetings with people who have been subjected to serious and offensive crime, and it has been difficult to hear how some of these have described the burden of having been subjected to criminal proceedings in which they themselves have been victims. It is therefore gratifying that today we can take some important and proper steps to strengthen the position of this group of people in criminal proceedings. The process leading up to the proposals that exist here today started back in 2001, which eventually led to the Preparatory Committee presenting its position in 2006. The government has stated in its government statement that you should work to strengthen the position of those who are victims of crime. The proposal we are discussing today is part of this work. The proposal will be a clear improvement on today's system. A unanimous committee unquestionably feels that insulted and abandoned people are able to experience a criminal case as a criminal offence. Both the way in which criminal proceedings are carried out and the result of them can have emotional and legal consequences that have a significant impact on the offended and the abandoned. By strengthening the procedural rights of this group, more attention will also be given to the other actors in the criminal proceedings of the offended and abandoned, who themselves will contribute to an improvement. Another element in this matter is: to maintain the legitimacy of the rule of law, the criminal justice system must be such that all those involved feel included in the process, and all those involved must be met with respect and dignity. The proposal will clearly contribute to an improvement in this area. In a cross-cutting form, the proposal is intended to give offended and abandoned rights to information, transparency, presence, the possibility of opposition and an extended right to an aid lawyer. The Committee considers that the proposal does so, while not making them offended and left a formal party to the case. This is also an important principle for maintaining the legal certainty guarantee for the defendant. I'm not going to go into all the details of the bill, but I'm going to comment on some of them. I consider that we are now receiving a strong reinforcement of the right to an aid lawyer to be one of the most important things in this case. The fact that children under the age of 16 who are exposed to sexual acts, victims of violence in close relationships, sexual mutilation or trafficking in human beings now receive an extended right to an aid lawyer will make a significant contribution to reducing the burden of criminal proceedings. This will also provide good assistance in the exercise of the rights of self-inflicted persons, both during the investigation and during the main negotiation, and in promoting any civil claims. Having an opening for a discretionary assessment of the need for an aid lawyer also in other types of cases, now covers a large area of the aid lawyer system. It is also a unanimous committee that supports a system of permanent aid lawyers. The Committee believes that this will help to improve the quality of this important work and will make the system easier to respond to the interests of the various parties. Another important element in the case is the right now being introduced, that insults may be given free consultation with a lawyer in order to assess the notification. There is reason to believe that this will lead to more people actually reporting relationships that many people are hesitating to report today, for example. cases of rape. I would also like to raise another issue in the bill. This applies to time limits and rules when insulted persons are under 18 years of age. All members of the Committee, with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, support the proposal submitted in this area. Nevertheless, I feel the need to say something more about it. It is true today that there is a 14-day deadline for the hearing of children. The Committee considers that this time limit is a maximum limit and that the aim should be to reduce this time limit as much as possible. I believe this should be done when you get the five children's houses that are set in place. The same majority also supports the Government's proposal in the case of time limits for appeals. The main argument for this is that you have to have time to ensure a good quality of the investigation. This is a high priority from the Riksadvokat's side. So you focus on this area. However, we ask the Government to follow closely the procedure in this type of case and come back to Stortinget if there is a negative trend. There may also be a need to take a major discussion on deadlines in general to see if there is any disproportionateity in the time limits already granted. A unanimous committee also considers that the proposed law respects Norway’s international obligations to both offended and accused persons. As the President has now heard, I have focused on the areas where there is a great deal of consensus in the Committee, and I would like to conclude by saying that the Committee agrees with the main issues of this legislative proposal. The proposals that come in addition from the minority are, to a large extent, proposals from a minority in the Committee of Inquiry, and are therefore well problematic in the proposition. I therefore believe that the focus in this matter should be on the important legislative changes that all agree on. I think that with this we get a penal system that is much more serious than anything else and takes insults and leaves behind. I would therefore recommend that Odelstingen support the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07-lower.ana.ud295e91	The Progress Party is very pleased that we are receiving this bill today. Finally, they get offended and left behind a strengthened position, which we believe they should have had a long time ago. The Progress Party has repeatedly made proposals to strengthen the rights and not least the status of victims of serious crime. The Progress Party has also proposed the creation of an agent for victims of crime in order to build up a care centre for victims and relatives. It's usually the criminal who gets the most attention, and we don't belong much to the victims. It's rare you hear about, or that someone cares about, how the lives of the victims or the survivors are showing off. Often we hear that the criminals should have the contents of the ransom, they should get the feedback guarantee, and they should get the help needed to start a new life after atonement. Let there be no doubt that the Progress Party also agrees. But, who is there to make sure that the victims and the survivors have a valuable daily life, and a life that makes it easier to bear the burden and grief? We must not forget that becoming a criminal is something you choose, becoming a victim is something you do not choose. Therefore--even though the Advance Party in this matter wants to go a little further than the Government--I will give tribute to the Government for a great step in the right direction. That's very good. During the examination of this matter we have received many enquiries. One of the e-mails I have picked up and read several times is from a parent who lost his daughter who was shot and killed by his girlfriend. Their meeting with the actor, who did not condone, and a judge who consistently referred to their daughter with the wrong name, is a reflection, and such cases cause victims and survivors to easily lose respect for the Norwegian judicial system. Their interests include being treated with respect and dignity, being informed, being heard, and not least being involved in the process. I could use my entire post to talk about all the good measures that are now being taken, and as the Progress Party is fully behind, such as: ensuring the provision of information on important measures concerning the preparation and implementation of a legal action extending the aid lawyer's scheme to family violence and the abuse of a permanent lawyer's system; I would also like to boast of the work carried out by the Conciliation Committee, which has resulted in this amendment. As you have probably read, the Progress Party has some new proposals. I have to say, I think it's a shame that no more support them, and I'm going to try to argue as best I can, so that someone might turn around. There is no shame in turning, and there is yet time for it! The victim of a criminal act, in many cases child, is the weakest party in many cases. Fortunately, it is not often a child dies as a result of a criminal offence, and that the child’s nearest person is targeted in the case. We could read about a one-year-old who is critically injured in a hospital last night, and the parents are suspected in the matter. Let's hope that this goes well. What I want to do up to is: who cares for the child's interests in a matter where the parents are involved in the truth? The Progress Party considers it time to give these matters greater status and will therefore propose the appointment of a child’s assistant lawyer when he/she is one of the child’s closest. We know that the waiting time from one case to another is reported until a court hearing is conducted is difficult for many. It is particularly important that children are interrogated as soon as possible. That is why we believe that a deadline of two weeks is far too long. When we also know that this deadline is rarely met, this is unsustainable. The Progress Party believes that it is too passive of the majority of the Committee not to go in for a one-week period. To just follow developments and then come back to the matter if it doesn't get better is not good enough. It is today that we have the opportunity to show that we really take this seriously. Part of the potential for improvement for this law is just deadlines. The minimum must be to equate time limits for the suspect and for the offended. We know that the waiting time is a significant impression for a child and for relatives, and that it is important to have the matter left behind as soon as possible. Yes, even the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation and Abuse obliges the parties to ensure that the investigation and prosecution of such cases must be given priority, and then it is not too much to expect the same deadlines for the victim as for suspects. Therefore, the Progress Party proposes that similar time limits should apply to the offended person as to the suspect. Then we also have another proposal that the Progress Party seems to be very important in terms of strengthening the rights of offended and abandoned, and that is the right to complain. Today, the offended and the deceased have the right to appeal in respect of decisions relating to the imposition, waiver of charges, the making of prosecuting and the making of appeal decisions. Nevertheless, the Party considers that it is important to point out, and that it is expressly stated, that the offended and the deceased have the right to appeal against the decision of the prosecution authorities. Another case concerns information on decisions in criminal enforcement. The Party of Advancement considers it important for the offended and abandoned persons to be informed if the court receives a stay of residence. This has to do with showing respect for the offended and the abandoned, as I see it. I will again be allowed to pay tribute to the Government for having brought this case. The party of progress is committed to strengthening the victim's position in the judicial system, and it shows the government with this case that it is. Nevertheless, in such a case, it is not to avoid mentioning the economy. It is often so easy in this room to adopt laws and proposals, but then often there is not enough money and resources to implement the law properly. The main proposals are the strengthening of the aid lawyer system, which will increase legal expenses, and the proposals for strengthened information rights and the right to meet with the actor, which will lead to increased police and prosecution tasks. Also the right to have a free conversation with a lawyer before the notification and remuneration of presence during the main negotiations will increase costs. I would therefore like to make a heart attack: this must be followed up in budgetary terms, unless we adopt a law here today that is not going to work satisfactorily. I finally want to include the minority proposals in the vote. The Progress Party will also inform us that we are going to support the Right proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07-lower.ana.ud295e148	The representative Solvency Horne has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07-lower.ana.ud295e151	Let me first of all thank the case rapporteur for a thorough and good review of the matter itself. Over the past 15 years, a number of legislative changes and measures have been adopted to improve the situation of crime victims. In particular, victims of violence and sexual offences have tried to help with concrete measures. It feels very important to those who are being hit. Getting met with respect and dignity at the police and other relief agencies in a difficult situation I think should be a matter of course today. Today is a new milestone for the offended and abandoned in Norway. In the last five to ten years, questions have also generally been raised about both insulted and abandoned criminal proceedings in Norwegian law. It may be easy to forget the offended when the State is to meet its needs and get the guilty one punished. Fortunately, we have traditionally had a strong focus on the rights and the need for a fair trial. This has been further reinforced since Norway became more aware of our obligations under the European Convention on Human Rights 15 years ago and the recognition that decisions in Strasbourg became more and more binding also on Norwegian law. But the Convention has the aim in focus, not the offended one. Had the convention been written today, it would obviously also have been more concerned with the rights of offended persons. I am quite convinced of that. It is a cross of thought that the rights of the offended are not more protected within the concept of human rights. It is clear, then, that today there is a misunderstanding between how the interests of the victims and the offended have been treated in comparison with those of the accused. Many insults and survivors have stated that the court meeting can be seen as a heavy additional burden, and you are hesitant about the process you have to go through. Indignity and survivors have called for both better information and the ability to provide information. The Committee of Inquiry has done a very commendable job when assessing the role of the offended person in a broad and comprehensive perspective. The committee has made a number of good proposals, which the Stortinge essentially endorses here today. Right is satisfied with the changes proposed, but wants to put in place even more measures to ensure that the human side outside the courtroom is also protected against insulted and abandoned. During the Bondevik II government, a three-year trial project with Support Centre for Injured Persons in Criminal Matters was set up in cooperation with Trondheim Municipality, South Trundellag Police District and Trøndelag State Attorney's Office, co-located with the Trondheim Police House. The Centre provides support, practical assistance, parental and family support, trial support and advice. The subsequent evaluations show that the project has been an unconditional success. The function of the support centre can be described as follows: the support centre is available to the victim early in the process when the injury is often greatest and the assistance is most needed. During the criminal proceedings themselves, the support centre contributes with information and preparation for the case itself. In this way, the victim is better able to deal with the process to be undertaken. It is not difficult to understand that such follow-up by the support centre creates security in a situation that otherwise seems very alienating to many. The experience from Trondheim is unmistakably positive, and so the Right believes we need to learn from that project. The time has come to build a better apparatus in connection with the victim who meets the legal, prosecution and administration apparatus. We want such an offer to be nationwide. So the right-hand side proposed to grant $5 million. kr for this measure in its 2008 alternative budget. We are disappointed that the Government did not support this at the time, but the government parties have today the opportunity to turn around by voting in favour of the proposal that the Right is promoting during the debate here today. On the right, we have also noticed that the rape committee in its recent position has been committed to strengthening the counselling device to ensure that victims of rape can be given much better follow-up and support than is the case today. This is in this way an additional reason for establishing this type of support centre and providing even more assistance to the offended and abandoned. The right also believes it is important to facilitate that insulted and abandoned persons can be protected as far as possible from encountering the offender. We have to remember that there may be very serious crime and violations that can pursue insults and leave behind all their lives. In the view of the Right, it could be of great importance for the offended and abandoned to be notified of decisions under restitution, for example: on the time of leave or penalty interruption and the time of release after an end of residence. The right therefore supports the Committee’s proposal that the alert requirement be extended to all decisions requiring unenforceable convictions outside prison, and that alerts should be given in case of evacuation. In very special cases, it should also be possible to open up notifications of manufacture. The wholeness of the bill presented is good, but like the Progress Party, the right is concerned that there has been a gap in the law regarding the right to legal aid. The right considers that the aid system must be extended to include cases where children die as a result of criminal offences in which one or more close family members are targeted in the case. This is important in order to ensure the legal certainty of these children. Without an assistant lawyer, it is difficult to see who can take care of the interests of the dead child. There are good reasons why issues with young offenders are given priority in order to speed up response and to prevent a more comprehensive criminal career. On the other hand, the Right will strongly warn against proposals that set a time limit for prosecution decisions that are under 18 years of age and consider that there is a real danger that the quality of the investigation will be harmed if relatively short deadlines are introduced, as the Progress Party now proposes. It is not possible to understand how such a period may be in the interest of the victim or of the offended person. Let me use two examples: the Baneheia case and the Lommemann case. I can only understand that the purpose of resolving these matters satisfactorily must be in the interests of both the offended and society. It is completely impossible to understand that in cases like this. The handkerchief case, where there may be more than 100 insults that were under 18 at the time of action, should be sensible to press forward an appeal decision within six weeks. In the Right's view, on the contrary, this would clearly weaken the legal certainty of the many victims. It is therefore not possible to understand how to present such a proposal and to believe that this should be a strengthening of the position of the offended. I would like to bring up the two proposals from the Right that have been distributed in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07-lower.ana.ud295e185	The representative Elisabeth Aspaker has addressed the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07-lower.ana.ud295e188	This is a joyous day for victims in legal proceedings. Everyone who has worked for and wanted victims to have their rightful place in their own case has come to an end. One of the areas that is strengthened in this matter is that the victims, i.e. offended and abandoned, from now on to bring their version of the events and speak before the defendant explains himself. Providing social security is a welfare issue and a major public responsibility. Victims of serious crime, and especially violent crime, must be guaranteed better follow-up than today. If we are to achieve this, we must act in several areas. One of the areas is to strengthen the position of offended and left behind in criminal proceedings. Today’s changes to the Criminal Procedures Act will strengthen the insidious and abandoned rights. Many insults and survivors have called for better information and the ability to provide information. It is therefore good that the right to information and transparency are strengthened at all stages of the case. Inoffensives who have advocates for assistance and some survivors shall be kept constantly informed of the progress of the case. In the case of other offended persons, it shall be informed as necessary. The offended and abandoned person is given the right to be present at all court meetings with this amendment, even when the meetings go for closed doors. They shall also have the right to be present throughout the main negotiation, irrespective of the time for their own explanation. Furthermore, the rights of disadvantaged persons are strengthened by their right to ask questions to the defendant, to witnesses and to experts during the main proceedings and to comment on evidence in the course of the procedure. The offended person will also be entitled to a final remark before the matter is brought to justice. Another important area for strengthening the rights of the deprived and the survivors has been the extension of the right to an aid lawyer. SV welcomes the extension of the aid system to cover several types of cases, such as sexual activity with children under 16 years of age, violence in close relations, trafficking in human beings, exploitation of beggars, sexual harassment and all cases where there is reason to believe that malnutrition is suffering significant damage to body or health. In addition, we extend the right to a free consultation with a lawyer to assess the notification. This is important, and I want to commend the Minister of Justice and the Government for a good job. Serious acts of violence are some of the most traumatic violations that a person may be subjected to, and often lead to extensive health damage. It is not uncommon to experience it in such a way that both life, health and personal integrity are seriously threatened. The rape commission presented its investigation two weeks ago. This shows that in 2006 974 rapes and attempted rapes were notified, giving a frequency of notification between 6 and 12 pst. Of the 100 people who report a rape, more than 80 feel that the case is being dismissed. All the laws and regulations that help to strengthen the position of the offended - in this case in the trial - are something we are all obliged to end up with. These legislative changes are a contribution here. In conclusion, I would like to make it clear that the strengthening of insulted and abandoned rights does not change anything in relation to the purpose of the punishment. There will be no deterioration in the legal certainty of the defendant. Many insults and survivors have expressed the view that the meeting with the judicial system is a heavy additional burden. The new, strengthened rights are meant to correct this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07-lower.ana.ud295e205	The centre party has always defended the individual's rights to different powers. Therefore, it is very gratifying that we now have changes in criminal law that come to a very vulnerable group, simply insulted and abandoned in criminal matters. The changes in criminal law are an important part of fulfilling Soria Moria's statement to strengthen the position of victims of serious crime. It is not difficult to imagine how unfair it can be to be translated and overlooked in a matter that is actually largely about yourself. One has already experienced a great injustice, and then it's important that one does not experience it again in the meeting with the judicial system. Therefore, it is high time that we now see a fundamental difference between the victim and his or her rights in the trial than we have until now. For the Central Party, it is important that this amendment does not weaken the defendant's right to a fair trial. This concern is thought to be well taken care of in the submitted. In this setting, it is advisable to extend the legal aid scheme to, among other things. to be indicted in cases of violence in close relationships and victims of sexual mutilation. This is a human being in a very vulnerable and difficult situation, and having the security of a professional who knows the system and who can address the problems and questions you have will be of great importance. The current criminal procedural law does not contain any chapter on the insulted and abandoned place in criminal proceedings. This shows that there was a great deal of change. After the opinion of the Center Party, it is absolutely central that insulted and abandoned people now have a visible and self-evident place in the law. It is important for criminal proceedings, and not least it is symbolically important. One of the most important elements in the setting is that one recognizes the great information needs of the victim and the survivors. Not knowing what is happening can contribute to a lot of anxiety and anxiety, which you can avoid with information. The extension of the right to be present in court will be of great importance to many. The central party is pleased that the government sees the position of victims and survivors in a broad perspective. The proposed changes to criminal law are part of this broad perspective. The government's action plan against selected in close relationships is a very important part of this image. The same applies to the recently amended law on the compensation of victims of violence, which gives more rights to compensation. The centre party is very pleased that we are now introducing a new way of thinking about the rights of victims and survivors, and that they are thus getting their legal place in criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07-lower.ana.ud295e226	On the part of the Christian People's Party, there is no need to give a very exhaustive explanation of our views, for the case-rapporteur, who represents a nearly unanimous committee, in a very good way - the minority proposals are some small exceptions from the whole setting. So I'm going to limit myself to sum up what I think is most important in the proposition. It is primarily to express the legitimate interests of offended and abandoned persons in criminal matters as well. It is unequivocally determined by the changes that we are going to adopt later today. Furthermore, I think it is important that there is unanimity to limit this to what has been called for by some teams, namely to give insulted and abandoned formal status as a party. I'm very happy about that, too. Here, I believe that the setting balances important principles of criminal law and criminal procedure in a good way. It is important that a unanimous decision be taken. Like the rapporteur and several others, I agree that the substantial strengthening of the aid lawyer system will be one of the most important issues in which the case will arise when we have taken our decisions - including the fact that the proposal provides for a discretionary assessment of the need for an aid lawyer in cases other than those specifically mentioned, if there are specific needs. I'm a little excited about how it will be used. The Committee stresses that, in the case of permanent aid lawyers, I believe that it will provide a competence and experience that will benefit the offended and left behind in the often difficult process of legal proceedings of this kind. With these comments, we are joining in the vote, and we are also joining in the proposal that the Progress Party and the Right have jointly promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07-lower.ana.ud295e239	It is gratifying that a process that has basically had turbulent phases can be landed in the way it has done--first through the investigation that started with the Robberstad committee, then through the new indigestion committee, which came with a unanimous attitude, which in itself meant that everyone in the sample was willing to gather on important principles. It wasn't initially given, when we know who was represented in the sample, that it had to be that way, but it was that way. Then it is very important that we have come out as wide and solid as we have done on the part of the Committee. The left is willing to go far into granting practical rights to the offended and abandoned, but not so that we violate the fundamental rights of who are parties to criminal proceedings. We don't want to experiment with that. But beyond that, there's a lot that can be done. A lot has happened, and a lot also happens with this case. I am not going to deal with many of the issues, but one aspect that has been pointed out by many is that the aid lawyer system is being strengthened. It must also mean that the status of being an assistant lawyer is strengthened. When one has followed the social debate, there is no doubt that many aid lawyers have testified that they do not feel highly valued. What the Greatness is now doing is just strengthening that role in our judiciary. The Left supports the Progress Party and the Right's supplementary proposals, because we feel that in many ways it goes into what started a lot of the debate on party status, because it was really the very special circumstances surrounding the Baneheia case that in many ways fed up with the debate. Then the debate didn't stop there. There was a general debate on how to secure insults and survivors. For my part, I think it is quite important that the representative of the Stine Sofie Foundation, who was in the rapprochement committee, has been involved in the setting that underlies the proposition from the Government to the Stortinge, which is the basis for the committee's position. As far as matters surrounding this complex of cases are concerned, several have been concerned about strengthening the system of compensation for victims of violence, which is important. The broad commitment to action against violence in close relationships is also very important. In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity of drawing up the work that has been done in the context of the reduced rape committee. I have noticed the positive agreement of the Minister of Justice. I have also noticed that after that investigation came, there were many comments to begin with, but then it became completely silent. From this pulpit, on behalf of the Left, I would like to say actively - just so it is now registered - that I support the steps proposed in that investigation, to also look at how the police work is to be organised. I think it's important to say that, because I think the steps that are proposed will help to make sure that in some way insulted feels cared for as well as it can be done when a case is difficult. I choose this opportunity to say that, because it is a theme that will naturally come as a follow-up to the matter today, just as the case today has had previous issues such as, among other things. have given leave to sit in court and be remunerated, the right to be free, etc. - a number of practical arrangements that were the first follow-up to the Robberstad Committee, and then we got the second one today. With these comments, the Left considers it very positive that the Committee has landed where it has. I have a closing comment. To the proposal of the Progress Party, and in particular one of the proposals, in which one should almost change the relationship between the parties in the trial, I would just like to say that here you are dealing with such fundamental changes in relation to the legal state in which the Left wants to recognise, that I choose to mark it here and now. The fact that we're going to get a kind of process where insults kind of come in instead of the way of society's settlement with what's right or wrong, and the court's weighing right or wrong, we can't accept. But all the other grips that are about to give insulted and left behind visibility in the landscape around the process, and that are proposed in this setting, of course, we support. We also support the practical work we know from many places in Norway to accept insults and others who are struggling with the effects of crime in a proper way. But I know you'll come back to that on another occasion. The left is pleased with this setting. We are pleased with the breadth and soundness that lie behind it, and that it is based on and adheres to the fundamental principles of law in a state of law, and then we give sacrifices and leave a new chance to become visible where it is right that they should be visible, without violating the fundamental principles of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07-lower.ana.ud295e263	I am pleased that the Judicial Committee has given full support to the Government's proposal to strengthen the rights of people who are being insulted and left behind in the course of criminal proceedings. I listened with interest to the considerations of a more fundamental nature that have also emerged in relation to the party relationship in a criminal case. I think it is very important what we have now heard from both the representative of Dørum and the representative of the Syversen. I believe it is absolutely essential that such an important work that has been done for many years can be landed in Odelstinget in this way, that we stand together and demonstrate with broad unanimity around these proposals - but with some additional proposals - that this is what we want to be good policies for the offended, because now money is in place, now the law houses are in place. Now it's about making it work. I hope, therefore, that the proposal helps those who are subject to criminal offences to feel more serious and met with dignity and respect in the criminal system, because unfortunately not everyone has felt that way. Many have felt like a stranger guest in their own case. They feel disappointed at their meeting with the case, the parties and the judiciary. Several have said that they have felt excluded from the criminal proceedings and treated as unaccompanied persons, as if the criminal case did not concern them, or that they have nothing to do with, while at the same time the criminal proceedings relate to an act to which they themselves have been subjected and which they themselves consider to be one of the most central parts. It is not difficult to understand that others have experienced this as incomprehensible or unfair. According to traditional doctrine, criminal matters are a matter between the State and the defendant. But the criminal case is not just about the state or the defendant. It also applies to the victims in the strongest possible terms. It's about something that's happened to them, about their lives. They may have experienced the worst that has happened to them, and they may have experienced violence from someone they are proud of, have been raped, or have lost someone they are happy with. They're in the middle of it. They live with the consequences of this action that has penetrated their lives. It is clear that they have an interest in being able to follow the criminal case as closely as possible, in obtaining information and in providing information. It is clear that they want to be able to participate in a process that concerns them so strongly. There is little doubt that the time has come for a system change. In several other areas of law, a decision or process is concerned, considered as a reason why information and the possibility to influence treatment should be available. If the neighbor is to build on his house, you have the right to be notified and pronounced. It is high time that this was applied also in criminal matters. Strengthening the rights of the deprived and the survivors in criminal matters is central to maintaining trust in the judicial system. In many cases, more active participation from offended and abandoned persons can also help clarify the criminal case or, in fact, improve it. These proposals will significantly strengthen these rights. I want to mention some of them. It is important that we now have an extension of the right of an aid lawyer - the aid lawyer is a key person - to include both issues relating to sexual activity with children under 16, trafficking in human beings, violence in close relationships, gender mutilation and cases of visitation ban based on possible violation of the criminal code on violence in close relations. One of the problems with these cases has been that people who have been exposed to these acts have not dared, have no power, have not been able to get in touch with or go to the police and report on the incident to which they have been exposed. The law of aid can make it easier to get advice and guidance, not only on going to the police, but also on finding other tracks to get out of an unsustainable situation. It is also important for us that we now get a right to a conversation with a lawyer before the application is submitted, just to ensure that in several cases we actually get a report. Strengthening the right to information and transparency at the investigation stage is also crucial. Many victims just report on the need for information about what is happening. We have an exaggerated belief that it is the length of punishment and the reactions at the end of the case that count. Many of the victims report almost the opposite. Had only been informed, explained what was the background to the decisions that were made, they would also have been easier to live with. The extended right to be present in court meetings is crucial, precisely to obtain the important information provided in court meetings. The statutory court of offended and abandoned persons shall have the right to be present at all legal meetings, including those for closed doors, in such a way as to be important. These are also proposals followed up in the 2008 draft budget, where funds were allocated, inter alia. in order to ensure the existence of selected insulted and abandoned financial opportunities during the main negotiation, i.e.: compensation for lost income and travel allowances at the rates of the country. It is certainly important to ensure better contact with the police and prosecution authorities. This has been followed up in the 2008 budget, by the fact that in fact there has also been funding to ensure a right for selected offended and left to a contact person in the police and to a meeting with the actor before the main debate. I am pleased that the Stortinge joined the draft budget. The strengthened rights we now receive for children are absolutely crucial and are linked to the entire effort of the Government, among other things. establishing children’s homes. We've opened two children's houses in the past six months, and we have intentions to open three more during the current financial year. There's money allocated to this. We raise the age limit for the use of court hearings from 14 to 16 years of age, and the Government also proposes that children under 12 years of age should not have to decide whether they wish to explain themselves or not against a related target. The rule on exemption from the obligation to provide a witness because of close relations with the intended person is therefore not applicable to children under 12 years of age. In addition, we believe that the proposal strengthens the rights in preparing for the main debate. Those who have assisted lawyers have been proposed a right to propose additional evidence on the penalty requirement. It is also proposed to extend the right of access to the file to include survivors in statutory order. Furthermore, it is proposed to repeal the rule that access to the file may be refused if it could harm or endanger the proceedings before the court. I would also like to mention that during the main negotiation there is a significant strengthening of the rights of the offended by giving them the right to be present and mainly explain themselves before the defendant. Those who have assisted lawyers are also granted more procedural rights. Then there is reason to point out that even after the main negotiation there will be a strengthening of the rights. When a judgment has been given, the court shall inform the offended person and the respondent of the result of the judgment. Yes, it's almost striking that today we adopt this -- which most of us perceive as a matter of course for those who are involved in these kinds of things. It's high time! In the case of the acknowledgment judgments - where I see the Progress Party has some additional proposals - it is at least that insulted by an auxiliary lawyer is given the right to be informed of the application of the prosecution authority, the right to complain about the content of the case and the notice of the hearing. As far as criminal enforcement is concerned, when we are at the brink of the criminal justice chain, recent extensions have been adopted in the rules on alerts to offended and abandoned decisions during the criminal execution. We are not now proposing any change in reality in these rules. On the other hand, it is proposed to introduce a comprehensive provision in the Staff Implementation Act that refers to the rules of the Act on alerts. Also with regard to reopening and civil requirements, amendments are proposed. However, the interests of the victims are not limited to the conduct of any criminal proceedings. The government wants to ensure better follow-up of victims of serious crime in other areas as well. I find reason to underline it. The criminal trail is too important for many, but it is not essential to move on in the lives of many. Many people say that it may be in other areas that they want to follow up and help. Our efforts at children's homes, crisis centres and also what we have done recently in relation to the compensation of victims of violence have just been made to provide better support and help in the life to be lived after the case has been decided forcefully. I would also like to say that the government-appointed Rape Committee, which has recently issued its investigation with proposals for action to improve the situation of women and men who are exposed to rape and other sexualised violence, provides us with many good insights into further bets in this field. The government is busy strengthening this field still. We focus heavily on it. I believe it should be central to the work of the Ministry of Justice in the future. In this way, today's debate and proposals for changes provide a good basis for further efforts for those who need it most.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07-lower.ana.ud295e314	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07-lower.ana.ud295e317	Many of these proposals in the vote benefit minors. We know that the Minister of Justice is very concerned about strengthening the rights of children. That is why my question becomes to the Minister of Justice: why is the Council of State not willing to give a child who has died, a right to an aid lawyer where either the parents or its closest are intended in the matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07-lower.ana.ud295e324	It is absolutely right that it is very central to the Government to strengthen children's rights. This which is now being drawn out is some of the most tragic things we are facing, and there are some of the most difficult things we face in terms of investigation. It is also difficult for police and prosecution authorities to be actively involved in such cases. Here you have to choose your actions with great care. What is imperative to the Government in these matters is that we become better at investigating these matters. There we have clearly fallen to the conclusion that giving an assistant lawyer to a deceased child is not the best way to create a better investigation in these matters. Then we have more faith in the two measures we have chosen to implement in this respect: we need to have site-of-death studies on such cases, where the health authorities and the police come in more quickly to find out what has actually happened. We also believe it is absolutely essential that we now have the quick establishment of the teams in the police districts to deal with these kinds of issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07-lower.ana.ud295e331	In my post, I referred to the recent suspension of the Rape Committee and the indication it has of the need for more support and assistance for victims in such situations. At the same time, we are behind this test project in Trondheim, which has been evaluated with very positive results. So I think it's very important that we make these changes here today, that we give extended, new rights to offended and abandoned. If the law is to become real and work, it assumes that those who are victims and survivors are able to actually benefit from the new rights they are actually given by the amendment of the law today. My question to the Council of State is: Will he take any initiative and consider making an offer à la Trondheim a nationwide offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07-lower.ana.ud295e340	It is an incredibly important challenge that the representative points to. As I also said from the pulpit instead, one thing is that you get rights -- the whole thing actually gives you nearly 44 million. kr this year only for additional measures in relation to insults - but they must also be used. I hope that, among other things, The information obligation and the information task that now lies with the police, and the contact we get between the actor and the offended, will contribute to this. At the same time, the Government's commitment to the crime victims advisory offices is very central to improving information work. As the representative of Aspaker knows, the clinics for victims of crime were made permanent from 1 January 2007, as far as I recall. It is the government's view that we should now bring together the efforts for crime victims in these offices, and in this respect it is particularly important to draw exchangers of experience from Trondheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07-lower.ana.ud295e347	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07-lower.ana.ud295e350	It's not every day that I from this pulpit give our current Minister of Justice credit, but I'm going to do that this time. At the same time, it's a paradox for me that we're going to make these decisions, because when we look at what we're doing today, it's really a little strange that we haven't done it too far. I assume that the Storting and Odelstinget in their eagerness and wisdom sees the logic of what we're doing, and perhaps should take note that some of this we might well have done even earlier in terms of the group we want to help today. It has been pointed out by some of those who have had posts so far that a tripartite system is a scary way to go. I assume it's the coin on the note from the Advance Party in the setting. Those who have taken the trouble to read it should perhaps have read it all. Because what we've said is that we don't want a tripartite system, but we want an investigation of the model that, among other things, Sweden and Finland have, just to see if there are any things they do that we could do to help strengthen the target group we want to help today. So we haven't concluded that we're going to have such a system, but we would have wanted an investigation and a problematization of it. And at my discretion, we're actually on our way there. The councils have said on the news today and here from the pulpit that many have an experience of being guests in their own court case. And so we're giving extended rights today. It means, in my opinion, that we are moving something on the frontier by strengthening the party that is somehow independent of the settlement of justice, by granting the party specific rights. So at least I think we're going in the right direction. In extending it, at my discretion, it would have been natural to investigate and problematize the consequences of going even further, with the benefits and possible disadvantages it would have. Because I think everyone agrees that being a guest in something that you saw until those degrees are affected is bad, and that is also the basis for the debate we have today. Another thing that I could have thought more people had supported about is the proposal that we have that the state should further advance legal claims where the basis is a deliberate criminal offence. Today, many people are left and per. definition has a legal right to compensation, but they do not receive it because the perpetrator is not mediated. Some are covered and taken care of by the Victim Compensation Office, but there are also those who fall outside this system. At my discretion, there's no doubt that if there's an agency that has authority and power to do something about this, it's the state. The state has the economic foundation to be able to help individuals in a situation that they have not chosen for themselves at all, and the state has quite different collection tools than a common citizen has. In this way, we think it would make sense for the state to assume that responsibility, and that the state then passed on the demand for recourse. But I'm recording that it doesn't want the majority to have any of it. The majority is satisfied with what's going on. After I understand, there is a case from Bergen on the news today, a great tragedy. A young girl was hit, one of the parents power didn't press. They have per cent. definition has been replaced but is not paid because the perpetrator has not been medicated. It shows that even if we stand here today and boast of what we're doing, and are very satisfied with what we're doing, unfortunately, there are still people outside. The aim must always be to ensure that those who are suffering unfairly and innocently from a tragedy based on a criminal act are as unspoiled as possible, not least from an economic perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07-lower.ana.ud295e365	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07-lower.ana.ud295e368	Meeting victims of assault and violence is a demanding and powerful experience. One thing is the specific events, but often it is at least as appealing to hear how much resources and forces the victims spend on getting life, as far as possible, to normalize themselves afterwards -- after the attacks, after the violence. Then it makes a strong impression on me as a justice politician when several of the victims later described the trial and the meeting with the police and prosecution authorities as a new offense. A quick search inside chat channels, such as Faen Heller -- a chatting site for young people who have experienced sexual assault -- or Blink shows that very many people just state the fear that the trial will become a new offense, as an important reason why they are unable to report the situation. I fully agree with the Minister of Justice that the time has come for a system change, and I am pleased that the Government through this bill strengthens the rights of both the offended and the abandoned. Through this case, we ensure that the legitimate interests of the offended person in the matter are better reflected in the legislation. Infringements will have fundamental rights, such as the right to be informed of developments in the case, access to the file, the right to be present in the court when the case against the offender is to be dealt with and the right to express its views and to be able to respond to information, both during investigation and during the course of the proceedings. At the same time, it is important to ensure that the processing time is not too long, when we are now strengthening the rights of the offended, because this also places a heavy burden on the victim. It is therefore important that the Ministry of Justice closely monitor developments in the course of proceedings. If it turns out to be too long, we need to reconsider whether deadlines should be imposed. In the end, it is immeasurably important to obtain information about these changes to be insulted and related. An extended right to an assistant lawyer and a conversation with a lawyer will contribute to this. But we also have to follow this closely. Then we hopefully let go of reading more articles from the desperate victims who do not dare report or tell anyone about the assaults, because they are afraid of new assaults - this time by the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07-lower.ana.ud295e383	I don't take the floor so often in this Chamber, but this is such a big case that I actually want to say that it involves no less than a change of system in criminal policy. I would like to pay great tribute to the Minister of Justice who has raised a field of criminal policy that no government has done before. Finally, it is a Minister of Justice who takes the victims seriously and strengthens the position of offended and abandoned. It'll be easier for people to be met by the police and the judiciary now. It is very important that victims of violence and the survivors are taken seriously in this difficult field. Children are vulnerable. In a situation where they are even mistreated and heeled, they are extra vulnerable and helpless. Therefore, it is gratifying that children’s rights are strengthened. The right to an assistant lawyer is proposed to be extended in cases of sexual activity with children under 16 years of age. Today, they have such a right only if the action has been taken in particularly aggravating circumstances. Now it is proposed that the threshold for the appointment of an assistant lawyer be lowered. The Government proposes to raise the age limit for the use of court hearings from 14 to 16 years. The government also proposes that children under the age of 12 should not have to decide if they wish to explain themselves or not against a related objective. Everyone who has children knows that children are very loyal. The rule on exemption from the obligation to testify because of close relations with the intended person shall not apply to children under 12 years of age. This is a system change and, in particular, it should be noted that money has actually been put into the budget for the amendments proposed in the Criminal Procedures Act. I'm glad. But I am most pleased that this field of criminal justice is being raised. A ruined human life cannot be budgeted, but dignity and respect can be given in the criminal system. This case shows that the Government is fully in line with the Soria Moria declaration.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07-lower.ana.ud295e395	The field of justice is an important area of society, because it is involved in setting limits on each individual's behaviour in order not to be subject to abuse. I think that one of the most pleasant things about this discussion and what will be adopted today is how strongly all the interventions are actually permeated by the fact that the criminal court is to be humane, that it is to be marked by the need to treat people with respect. You have to treat the victim, insulted, with respect. However, it has also permeated the policy throughout this period that the sentence should also be treated with respect, in the sense that measures should be taken in the field of criminal justice to allow rehabilitation and to be released as useful people. I think the Council of State deserves great honor to create an atmosphere in the criminal justice field and in the justice field that means that you don't want to score easily points that the harder you take the individual, the better criminal care you get, because all the research shows the opposite. It's in many ways a little startling when Jan Arild Ellingsen says, "Why haven't you done this before?" Implicit: Why haven’t we thought about it before? We have had occasion to do so in the context of differing cooperation with other governments. But it's positive to recognize that when you realize different parts of the crime scene according to the Soria Moria Declaration, it actually becomes a better policy out of it than what the previous government was able to get up with. The fact that we can today unanimously adopt a policy under the direction of the red-green government, with which everyone in this Chamber sees themselves served, promises well for the future as well. This means that in ever new fields, both the victim’s position will be strengthened and the extension of the victim’s confidence that the rate of relapse will be reduced among criminals by strengthening criminal justice as such in its content.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07-lower.ana.ud295e404	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07-lower.ana.ud295e412	Odelstinget then goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07-lower.ana.ud295e419	A total of 12 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Right-wing proposals No. 2-10, by Mr Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on 11 and 12, from Elisabeth Aspaker on behalf of the Right The President will first deal with the proposals. 7-12. Proposal No. 7, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the introduction of rules to include some cases in which Norwegian citizens are subject to serious crimes abroad. ‘... Proposal No. 8, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The government asks the Government to promote a roll-out report investigating and problematizing a tripartite system in criminal cases using a model from Sweden and Finland. ‘... Proposal No. 9, from the Party of Advancement, reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a new provision in the Penal Code that the prosecution authority should inform the offended and abandoned in the order of priority of the decision on deferral of compensation and the amendments made. ‘... Proposal No. 10, from the Progress Party, says: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and propose a system in which the State protects civil claims in criminal matters, if the basis for the claim is a deliberate criminal offence. ‘... Proposal No. 11, from the right, says: ‘The government is asked by the government in the revised national budget to ensure that an offer of aid centres for offended persons is made available on a nationwide basis. ‘... Proposal No. 12, from the right, says: ‘The decision asks the Government to come back with proposals for an extended alert obligation in line with the proposal of the Board of Governors. ‘... These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure. The President will then bring up proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Criminal Procedures Act shall be amended as follows: Paragraph 107(a) shall be replaced by the following: If any person under the age of 18 dies as a result of a criminal offence, an aid lawyer shall be appointed for the deceased when he is one of the closest of the deceased. ‘... The President notes that the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07-lower.ana.ud295e486	The President will then allow the votes to be taken collectively on the proposals. 2-6, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘ §59a, second paragraph, point (a) 2 is replaced by the following: 2. insulted and left in priority order. ‘... Proposal No. 3 reads: « Paragraph 239, fourth paragraph, shall be replaced by the following: After the first paragraph, and after the third paragraph, the observations shall be made within 1 week of the notification of the offence to the police, unless specific reasons indicate that they will be made later. ‘... Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘ The second sentence of the second paragraph of §249 shall be replaced by the following: the same shall apply if the insult referred to in the first paragraph of §93a was less than 18 years old at the time of the act. ‘... Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘ Paragraph 275, second paragraph, second sentence, point (c) is replaced by the following: (c)injured persons were under 18 years of age in cases referred to in the first paragraph of Section 93a when the offence was committed. ‘... Proposal No. 6 reads: ‘The second paragraph of Section 432, new second sentence, is replaced by the following: This does not apply when aggrieved with special rights promotes the claim even in accordance with the second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 428. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07-lower.ana.ud295e1419	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07-lower.ana.ud295e1428	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07-lower.ana.ud295e1526	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word in accordance with §37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
