ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e43	The representative Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The representatives Marianne Marthinsen and Erling Sande have received applications for leave from 10 December to 12 December, both to participate in the fourteenth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention on Climate Change in Poznan, Poland. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representatives, for Oslo Khalid Mahmood, and for Sogn and Fjordane County Knut Magnus Olsen, are proposed to meet during the leave period. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Karin Yrvin is elected to the Lamentations for the time she meets the representative of Marianne Marthinsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e78	Khalid Mahmood and Knut Magnus Olsen are present and will take the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that today's Storting meeting be suspended at 0 p.m. 12.15 to allow representatives to participate in the Nobel Peace Prize ceremony in Oslo City Hall. As a result, the President will propose that the meeting be resumed at 9 p.m. 15.30 and continues beyond the regulatory time until the current map has been completed. No objections have been raised against this. – It is therefore deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e94	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e105	The government has put forward an expansive government budget with many measures to stimulate the economy. The municipal sector will also be significantly strengthened. The total real growth for the sector is DKK 8.4 billion next year, which is DKK 28.6 billion higher than in 2005. Furthermore, it is assumed that the local government sector will receive a wage and price compensation of approximately NOK 13 billion – it is also worth noting. Many other initiatives also have a positive impact on local welfare, for example: the increase in the country’s contribution to resource-intensive services, amounting to a total of DKK 1.3 billion in two years. The interest-rate compensation scheme for school buildings, swimming pools and church buildings is also very important. From the turn of the year, the balancing of income is carried out so that the financial assumptions between municipalities become more fair. It's also positive in many places. At the same time, we all know that many municipalities are in the midst of a challenging situation when, in these days, they are going to sew together the 2009 budgets. There are different reasons for this – not least that the financial crisis also affects the local government sector. But now together we're going to see the possibilities. In most municipalities and county municipalities small and large investments and maintenance work are needed in important welfare areas. The needs are great, many plans are clear, and many plans are almost clear. In the government announced fiscal policy package coming early in the new year, exceptional measures in the local government sector will be very central. This will give you a double win. We're going to do something about the development and maintenance needs, and that's how to improve the welfare supply, while at the same time the employment effect comes quickly. It's important, very important, because the financial crisis is suffering unfairly. A minority must bear the greatest burden of losing their job and experiencing financial insecurity, while the majority still have work and income. Therefore, it is so important that we constantly do what we can to ensure that as little as possible loses the job, and that those who become unemployed are given the opportunity to work again as quickly as possible. Most jobs must be maintained, whether in the public sector, in the construction sector or elsewhere in the labour market. We have to be as concerned with care workers Per as building workers Kari. I feel sure that the Government will ensure good dialogue with both municipalities and county councils, directly and through the KS, to ensure that the measures contained in the package are as effective as possible. While we see the effect of the other fiscal measures taken by the Government, the government’s extraordinary effort is being accelerated at a high rate. In a few minutes' time, the Prime Minister will meet the parliamentary leaders of the Red-Green parties and the parliamentary leaders of the other parties here on the Stortinget to see how the fiscal policy package should be structured. In the setting we show in the red-green parties that many communities will lose jobs as a result of the crisis, and that in this context we await the government's announced package of further measures. We, who are the majority of the committee, are committed to looking at local communities throughout the country, and how we can best contribute where needed. If we're not with the bourgeois parties in the setting of drawing Karmøy in particular, it doesn't in any way mean that we're not concerned about the situation on Karmøy. It probably also knows the minority, whether it has not been expressed specifically when they have been interviewed by the local media. Please make the proposal for a transmission proposal – we support that. We have made several assessments of the situation in Nord-Troms, particularly related to the municipal economy and the comparison with Finmark. We are strongly committed to having a funding system for municipalities, which will appear to be as fair as possible. A good contribution to a fairer system in the north is that all municipalities in the action zone are now treated equally within the small municipality grant scheme. Then we ask the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs to continue to closely monitor the situation of the municipalities in the action zone in Nord-Troms. It is an important signal that I feel sure the Council of State will take seriously. The majority of the Committee – all except the Advance Party – believes it is important to ensure Sami as a living and cultural language in the future. I am therefore pleased that the budget provides for the development of an action plan for Sami languages. We support the Government in granting $5 million. kr to the Sameting for this purpose. We are now in the midst of major immigration challenges, and we may be going up against 8 000 new citizens next year. Therefore, it is important that we now have strengthened the integration grant received by the municipalities. I would also like to highlight the strong strengthening and improvement of the housing aid scheme proposed. That's what makes me the most happy in the budget. Finally, I would like to thank the members of the Committee for their effective and good cooperation in this budgetary process too. Good committee cooperation is important if sometimes the disagreement is large, but in between it also does not mean that we are united on important stakes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e133	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e136	Long before this budget is adopted in Stortinget, the macro-digits, not least the macro-digits relating to municipalities, are worthless in the sense that the financial crisis has mostly turned upside down, and it is known that the tax access to Norwegian municipalities to next year is going to be completely different from what is foreseen in the budgetary documents. In this context, most people agree that municipalities will be an important piece in combating the negative effects of the financial crisis. If you want to do that, it's about the faster you take action, the better it is, and the faster you get effect. Why does the Workers' Party not want us to be able to use it already, for example. the maintenance of the public sector, which is currently at a low level, to combat the negative effects of the financial crisis, to gain more hands at work and to avoid mass unemployment until next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e145	In 20 minutes' time, Prime Minister Per-Willy Amundsen's parliamentary leader will meet to get input into action. We are working under pressure with a series of actions related to meeting the challenges posed by the financial crisis, and we are working quickly to put in place effective measures in the local government sector. But then it's important to have a good dialogue with the municipalities maritime. I know that there is already a consultation meeting tomorrow where this is the topic. I don't think it's going to go far into the new year until we're in full swing with important welfare developments in Norway. So this is going at a high rate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e150	If this is high-pressure and high-speed, I think you're operating on a slightly different scale. The Stortinget has now had the state budget for treatment for quite a long time. It's also been a very long time since it became quite clear that the construction industry was going to be the hardest hit by the financial crisis. Everyone knows that one of the best and most targeted solutions would be to extend the interest-rate compensation scheme, the ability of municipalities to start work. The head of the KS said today in the Municipal Report that he had hoped that there had been a clarification regarding the framework of that instrument, so that the municipalities could start planning. The representative, Mr Hagebakken, has himself been rapporteur, and he knows very well that if the framework around this is not completed by the Stortinget until mid-February, important months can be missed in this work. Why can't the government support the opposition's proposal and do it now?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e159	I am sure that when the package of measures is presented – and for the municipal sector, it will be based on a good dialogue with the local authorities’ own organisation and directly with the municipalities – the municipalities will quickly be able to take advantage of the opportunities it offers. I don't think this will represent any delay, but it represents a quality assurance that we are now doing the right things in the right places in Norway, so that we get ‘effective measures’, as I said. We have implemented a series of other measures, not least to bring interest down. And if there's something that's very important for the construction industry and for the municipal sector, it's just that interest rates are falling. And the interest rate goes down!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e166	The representative focused in his statement that it was not only the construction worker who could risk standing without work, but also the care worker. Here we are a little bit at the heart of the matter, because in the Norwegian municipalities today it is also about the operation they have provided with the starting point that you had when the budget was presented. Many municipalities see that one cannot operate that way, not the number of teachers and not the number of care workers that one had planned. So they're cutting now. And then to the situation: we should avoid the municipalities ticking now. The representative and the government parties do not see the need now to do something about those who are already working in the municipalities, so that one avoids cutting, and so that it does not go back and forth. Is it not wise to do something now in the balance of the budget and to guarantee that the tax failure will be compensated?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e173	I am asking for an understanding that I cannot outsource what will be included in such a package of measures. It also has the simple explanation that it is by no means ready yet. But it was in what I said, that I think we have to be as concerned with the care worker as with the construction worker, and that we have to do our utmost to avoid unfortunate cuts. I understand that the municipalities in these days have a difficult situation, because we cannot say exactly what this will mean. But if there's something local government around to know, there's no better team player in public welfare development, and in taking care of the young and the old, than the red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e180	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e184	It is obvious that the budget to be decided on by the Stortinget today, not least in the local government sector, has already expired long before its adoption. It is precisely because the situation in the real world has changed dramatically as a result of the financial crisis. All macro-level figures in the budget are unrealistic and quite difficult to deal with for Norwegian municipalities. Already now we are told from the whole country – from Kommune-Norway out there – that it must be cut hard in the budgets. This is actually based on the figures already in the State budget – figures that the Progress Party underlines have already expired. In addition, it is known that the tax intake to the next year is going to be much lower than the government budget, and we know that the so-called income increase to municipalities in recent years – which the government is very busy boasting of – is collected from the cost side. It is before account is taken of the increased pension expenditure and the increased interest expenditure experienced by Norwegian municipalities, and then it goes without saying that Norwegian municipalities face a dramatic situation in 2009. The Progress Party is probably the only party that has clearly signalled a strong need for increased investment in the municipal sector in 2009. We do that by increasing direct earmarked funds for care for the elderly to NOK 1 billion and SEK 700 million. kr to primary school education, we triple the interest compensation scheme, and not least we add an extra 3 billion kroner to the municipalities to start operations on the maintenance side, which can be started from 1 January 2009 – partly because we have a situation with a huge lag in Norwegian municipalities in terms of maintenance, an estimated NOK 143 billion, but also for immediate, and as early as possible, to meet the decline in the construction industry. Here it was possible to do some grip for the Government. Instead, the government sits on its hands and does very little, and it has signaled that there will be some action once to next year. The Progress Party also strengthens the development of nursing homes. We're adding an extra 2 billion to our alternative state budget to advance the development of nursing homes and nursing homes. Here, too, the government is far behind. At the same time, on behalf of the Progress Party, I would like to stress that we are relatively tired of the fact that the Government and the Government parties have not followed up the promises made in the Municipal Proposition in terms of non-discrimination between municipalities in Nord-Troms and in Finnmark with regard to action zones. Yes, it is in the case of small municipal grants, but they have not followed up on the Nord Norway grant, and there are many in Nord-Troms who simply see this as a breach of promises. We also have other aspects of the budget that are very special to deal with. The government says that the next year will see 15 000 asylum seekers in Norway — the same figure that we are most likely to experience in the current year. This is, of course, a result of this government's irresponsible policy of asylum and, in reality, the loss of control over the area of asylum. We are at the top of Europe with regard to the number of asylum seekers that Norway receives per year. The population, and we've had the biggest increase in asylum in the world. The government signaled a so-called tightening package at the beginning of September, which the SV actually chose to put on this one. But so far, there are no effects of the so-called tightening – rather on the contrary. The government itself shows that when it adds that 15 000 asylum seekers will also arrive next year, it has disregarded the fact that these so-called intrusions will have a real impact. That is why we have a policy today that in practice leaves Norway open to happinesses. Although, in the name of goodness, the people who come to Norway and seek asylum, as refugees, we know that this is not the case at all. Only a place between 10 and 15 pst. by applicants for asylum in Norway today fulfil the refugee status requirement under the Refugee Convention. So the vast majority of those who come to Norway are not refugees, but people who sadly abuse the institution of asylum, and are thus also involved in undermining it. This also leads to the large budget winner in the year's budget being the foreign area. UDI alone gets an increase next year of 134 pst. – a quite amazing increase. But it is because of the fact that Norwegian asylum policy has become a national champion of misunderstood genius, and that it has not taken the necessary steps to pursue a realistic, sensible and, not least, sustainable long-term asylum policy. This policy has led to the total overrun of a number of municipalities out there when new asylum receptions are set up over a low shoe. I'll do one example. In the municipality of Bodø, a new reception for asylum is now established. The establishment of this asylum receipt is carried out so quickly that it is almost Norway's record in proceedings in a Norwegian municipality. In three days, the administration of the Municipality of Bodø shall decide on a change of use to allow asylum seekers to move in on the following Monday. And to do that, you deviate from the requirement in the Planning and Building Act to send out neighboring notices. This may indicate that the UDI has been lifted above Norwegian law, and that eager to settle increasingly new asylum seekers chooses to infringe laws, regulations and regulations that apply to everyone else in this society. I also see that it is contrary to the signals that the Government itself has given when it has said that greater consideration should be given to the citizens and to the municipalities when establishing new asylum receptions. However, what is now happening in the municipality of Bodø is another example of the total overrun of the municipality, and the inhabitants of the municipality are being overrun. You simply jump over the planning and building law to get asylum seekers in place the next Monday. It is allowed to raise your eyes and look further, because the policy pursued in the foreign field has some long-term effects that this government is obviously not willing to take. We have reports showing that ethnic Northmen can become a minority in their own country during this century. Calculations based on the SSB's own figures show that Oslo can have multiples of immigrants before 2029. These are major changes that have major consequences for Norwegian society, but I record that a total increase, with the exception of the Progress Party, does not have the will to deal with this fact. I don't think the Constitutional Assembly in 1814 saw such a development for this country. Nor do I believe that the resistance movement in May 1945 wanted such a development. What we see is a total, fundamental change in the Norwegian society that the Norwegian people have never asked for or in any way ever wanted. I refer to the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e216	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e221	The Progress Party will have a completely different and untapped financing of the well-being of our municipalities. School and senior care vouchers, large sections of commercial, private and welfare shopping are some of the keywords when safe welfare goods are to be exposed to the piece price financing of the Progress Party. I can inform the representative Amundsen that social democracy has no date stamping. The financial policy of the Progress Party did not stand up to the light and failed to cope with the financial crisis of reality. What is the reason why we should believe that the Progress Party's experiment with welfare services is not going to break up with the real world as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e228	Firstly, the link between the financial crisis and the Progress Party is not particularly relevant. But leave that thing alone. The Progress Party wants to finance the price of basic welfare services because we believe that it is a right for Gudrun of 89 years to have a health home place on the day she needs it, and that it is a right for everyone who reaches school-leaving age in Norway, to get a good elementary school on the day they are ready for it. And then it's going to be automatic funding. It shall be such as to guarantee these rights by the State. Therefore, we want unit-price financing and that it should not be like today, where the financial situation in the individual municipalities, which has now become very difficult due to the current government, is to be decisive for the health home offer Gudrun of 89 years and others experience getting out in Norwegian municipalities. We believe that this should be a right, and that it should not be decisive what kind of economy the individual municipality has.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e235	This was an intervention with many strong claims, totally undocumented, namely that the budget had been out of date before we dealt with it, that asylum-seekers were set up ‘over a low shoe’, that the owners were unable to see into 2008 and that we might have 15 000 asylum-seekers. I agree with Mr Amundsen on the last point. But I'm going to go into an area in this budget that I think is a little interesting, namely that the Progress Party is making quite strong increases in many areas of the municipal sector. That's $3 billion, that's $1 billion, that's $500 million. kr, etc. If we sum this, there'll be a lot of billions. This is in many ways something new from the Progress Party, increasing the public sector in this way. And it will have some impact on employment, because there will be a lot of new employees in the municipal sector with this arrangement. I have two questions. Firstly, has the Progress Party been counting on the employment effect? I think that's interesting. And secondly, is this a permanent change of policy of the Progress Party, or is this only applicable now for 2009?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e244	First of all, there was nothing I said in my post that could not be documented. And the 15 000 asylum seekers are something that the government itself has fully documented. Of course, when it comes to public sector financing and the size of the public sector, it is not the case that the Progress Party wants any major public sector, rather on the contrary. But we want to give priority to what is the basic tasks of the state. It's parental care, it's school, it's that you have good welfare services in Norwegian municipalities. And when we have a situation where the government's policy has led to a screaming lack of funding in Norwegian municipalities, the Progress Party must stand up and ensure that we have a good funding of the basic welfare services. That is the consequence of the alternative state budget of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e251	I have two questions for the Progress Party. The first thing I took up on the previous occasion was that it was budgetary procedure. Then I asked the Progress Party – without getting answers – whether they want the same price for a district municipality as Utsira, with 216 inhabitants, as for Oslo, when, for example. a place in the care of the elderly or in school. I would like an answer: Yes or no – is it the same price, or is it added district grants for our pig-grown municipalities? So the second question. It seems rather unclear to me what the Progress Party thinks about quota refugees. On the one hand, the Progress Party in the setting says that they want to give a stay to those who need protection. On the other hand, I can't see that they're going in to accept so many quota refugees. Does the Progress Party want to increase the number of quota refugees in order to be absolutely sure that there are refugees who have the UN stamp that they are people in need, or is there any other policy that applies to quota refugees for the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e263	First of all, I believe that I have answered the question about the unit price earlier to the representative Tørresdal. Of course, we want a differentiated unit price that takes into account the real cost situation in Norwegian municipalities, and not a general unit price that will apply to the whole country. Secondly, quota refugees: the Progress Party believes that the main task we have in Norwegian immigration policy is to ensure that we have a sustainable immigration, so that we do not accept more immigrants to Norway than what we can integrate on an annual basis, which this government obviously has not understood. This is precisely why we will see quota refugees in connection with the other influx of non-Western immigrants, so that we have overall a composition and a quantity of immigrants coming to Norway each year that are manageable from an integration perspective. So yes, maybe we will reduce, maybe we will increase the number of quota refugees, but it depends on the impact of the rest of the foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e270	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e273	I look at the picture behind me that the mariners look serious and worried. It is hardly because they are wondering what would be the asylum flow to Norway in 2009. However, it is a budget that is being discussed today. Much of the more exciting is going on in the discussion about what will happen in February. The opposition believes that the Government had had the opportunity to give some clear signals already during the budgetary procedure in Stortinget, and has also given the government parties many opportunities to do so. I think many of those who have already received a permit notice in the construction sector would have been happy if the Stortinget before Christmas could have gathered on some measures already now. The most obvious thing — and where everyone seems to be in complete agreement when speaking from the pulpit — is to expand the ability of municipalities to initiate investment and rehabilitation tasks in the municipal sector. KS has clearly stated here that they can launch projects worth NOK 30 billion in 2009. The opposition has made proposals on several occasions that would have met some of these. In our alternative budgets, we have proposed to increase the loan scheme through the interest-rate compensation scheme. The government parties could have done that. That's not what they chose to do. We have proposed not to cut the money in the interest compensation scheme that was not used in 2008, but to have them transferred to 2009. The government parties could have done that. We have also proposed to extend the loan scheme by NOK 3 billion in the timing of the balancing proposal. The government parties could have done that, but they've chosen not to do it. The point is that there is a deliberate choice, because there is no information that will arrive before February, which could change the fact that it would have been sensible to start this now. On the contrary, all the evidence suggests that if the municipalities had received the message now instead of two months later, the project would have been two months closer to realization, and people who have received a permit notice today would have been two months closer to work. And it's the government parties, who have a majority in this Chamber, who are responsible for not doing it. The 2009 budget for the municipal sector is difficult to say or predict, because it is based on many factors that are likely to change over the year. However, in the case of uncertainty factors, it is clear that this is a budget which is once again a sober budget for the local government sector for next year. As has been the case in 2007 and 2008, if the tax estimate remains. The government parties tend to hit their chests and say that they have given more money to the municipalities than they promised in the municipal bill. It is a truth that also has a different side, namely that revenue and costs in 2008 have changed quite significantly since the municipal bill was presented. So what the government parties really should have done, if they were to be honest with developments in 2008, was to continue that municipalities would keep the increased tax revenue for 2008 into 2009. It would have been right to keep that billion, but then the government parties could not boast that that billion came extra. That's why they chose to do it the way they did. What often characterises the discussion around the community structure is that figures are being pulled out and create the impression that the Norwegian municipalities have had a significantly better economy in recent years. That's not right. Although 2009 is a year for which it is very difficult to predict, the phase now exists for 2006, 2007 and 2008. If one then compares the arrangement of this government to that of the previous government, it's almost exactly the same development. In the same way as under the previous government, it is of course also for this government that is the most crucial for the economy of the municipalities. Then I want to refer to the Technical Calculation Committee's report of November – and now we're talking about the total revenue, because a person has often had a discussion in this room about the free revenues. It is clear that the free revenues are crucial to the way the municipality experiences the space for action, while the total revenues are crucial for the provision of services in the municipalities. If one looks at page 16 in column 3 of the November Technical Calculation Report, one sees that the overall trend in revenue in the previous government period showed a growth of 4.2 pst., while the overall trend in revenue during this government shows a growth of 4.3 pst. If you look at the municipal sector's share of gross domestic product, the proportion is almost exactly the same. What must be a judgment on this government’s local economic policy is that economic growth was a one-off initiative in 2006. I think that the current municipal minister, when she looks back a little bit, thinks that it was not the wisest thing this government has done, to choose to give so much of the bet a year instead of perhaps giving a little less money in 2006 all the time the tax revenue seemed to be so good, and rather giving something more in 2007 and 2008. For what one then experienced — unlike the previous government when one had a more steady growth — was that the municipalities raised a huge increase in expenditure in 2006 which continued into 2007, while the revenues did not follow. This means that, compared with 2005, the local government sector is now less well equipped to meet the tough times, including: by now the result is 1 pst. This means that one does not have the surplus that is going to happen in a little more troubled times, while one was well above the target of 3 pst in 2005. But that's talking about the story. In the future there will be a lot of discussion about the local economy in 2009. Here, too, the opposition is ready to discuss with the Government the measures to be taken to also use the local government sector to keep employment up in Norway, especially through the construction sector. If we're going to look beyond the annual budget, and look at what's the challenge for the sector if you look over time, in our opinion, the biggest challenge for the local government in the years ahead is to be able to participate more fully in the work of the welfare society. I believe that when Bjarne Håkon Hanssen is now working on the interaction reform, his biggest problem is that he can find good solutions for the interaction between the hospitals and the municipalities for the large municipalities, but not for the small ones. When one looks at the challenges of child protection, one sees that the biggest challenge is that child protection children become caste balls between the state and the municipality, where there is a controversy about which paragraphs the measures should follow, and who should pay, and children sent to completely different parts of the country in a very difficult situation. I see that within Nav is one of the big challenges that there are too many rules, too much focus on not doing wrong, instead of doing right and being able to use the rules wisely. In the area of public transport, the major challenge is to coordinate the spatial planning of municipalities with the collective planning of the county. In the area by area one sees that what is needed to take a new important step towards developing our welfare society is to have a different municipal structure, larger and more robust municipalities that can take over tasks both from the county and from the state. The experience gained through the pilot scheme launched by the previous government is unequivocally positive in that the type of solutions provide better results for users. In my opinion, starting a discussion about whether the municipal structure should take place on the basis of coercion or volunteering is a completely wrong way for Stortinget to approach that problem. I think the big discussion in the next period in this area needs to be given to a division of tasks between state and municipality that involves a significantly stronger local democracy, considerably more decisions being moved locally, and greater freedom to find the good solutions locally where people live. Before we in this room remind ourselves to do that, we're not going to move on in this sector. I would like to address the suggestions that are in the right-hand position. Right will also support proposal No. 15 – that is where we are not included in an error.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e310	The representative Bent Höie has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e315	This is the last budget debate we have before the elections, so my questions are about camels, and whether you are willing to make some guarantees here. In the past, the Right has guaranteed that the Financial Policy of the Progress Party will not be implemented, and in our areas, I now think it is right to be clarified clearly from the Right: Will the Right guarantee that the immigration policy of the Progress Party, which we were not least demonstrated here now, will not be implemented? Will the Right guarantee that the piece price system of the Advance Party, and thus strong attacks on local democracy, will not come about? And will the Right guarantee that the Samement will exist?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e322	As Tore Hagebakken knows, it is neither my job nor my authority to give guarantees on behalf of either the Right Party or the Advance Party, nor to take government negotiations with the Advance Party in this Chamber. But I can reassure the representative Hagebakken that when the election results give a majority on the bourgeois side, the Right is one of the parties that are going to stand up to get good political solutions along with the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. I can also guarantee Hagebaken that there are solutions that I am absolutely sure will be significantly better for the country than the solutions that the red-green government represents. In the field of immigration policy, Hagebakken knows very well that the Right has said that it is inappropriate for the Right to pursue an immigration policy that violates international conventions. However, we have also said that we believe that we will be able to agree very quickly with the Progress Party on good measures to reduce the current policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e329	The current budgetary procedure is based on the local authority's proposal and the substantial changes in the income system. The right has commented on it in its position, not in its post, but the right writes the same thing as they wrote in ours, that they want more on taxes, increase the municipal taxpayer, have a municipal corporation tax, and that they want less cohesion between tax-responsive and tax-responsive municipalities. Some people make use of it, for example: Bærum, others are losing on it, for example. Åsne municipality in Hedmark. Could the representative Höie be so honest as to say that some of the municipalities that have the worst services today would get even worse offers if we had implemented their model?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e336	In the income system of municipalities, there are many different elements, both income balancing and cost-balancing. The right-hand income system is also based on the same elements as the Government’s system. Our difference is that we believe that municipalities must retain a slightly larger share of their tax revenues. We mean, for example: it is wrong to leave the goal that municipalities should have 50 pst. of the tax revenue itself, which is also the position of the KS. We also believe it is wrong to leave the objective that municipalities should retain some of the value creation that is taking place locally, by keeping a share of the corporate tax, which is also KS's view and which is also the view of the Society's Main Organisation. But what should worry the representative, Mr. Slagsvold Vedum even more, is not that the Right's view is shared by the KS, but that the Right's view in these areas is actually part of the Central Party's programme, which the Central Party had to leave in connection with the Soria Moria Declaration.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e343	I just want to follow up the line, and I'm going to be even more concrete: would Åsne's municipality, for example, which is a very tax-free municipality, get more or less money if we had adopted the Right Order?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e348	If the Right Order for the next year or through these years had also been adopted in total, it is quite obvious that municipalities that have a lower tax base would have had somewhat less income, while municipalities that have a higher tax income would have kept some more of the money locally exactly the year we go into. It is the principle view of the municipal sector that this should be the case, precisely because local policy should also have an impact on the income of the municipality. This is also a principle view that the Center Party has. So yes, if the central party's policy and right-wing policy had been implemented in this area, the municipality of Åsne would have gotten a little less money next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e353	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e356	There's a reason to notice Amundsen's ending of the line change with Bjørg Dryersdal, which was about quota refugees, where he replied that maybe we'll increase the number, maybe we'll decrease it. Had he also added the following sentence: It depends on which assembly I am speaking to, this would have been a great headline of the Progress Party's policy. This is populism to the nth power! 2009 is the first year with a relatively large conversion of the income system to the municipalities. We create a fairer income system for municipalities. We introduce new grant schemes, such as growth grants, capital grants, Namdal municipalities are covered by the same grant as the Nordic municipalities, we are making a change in income balancing, where we are stepping up to 57 pst, and the tax share is going to decrease to 45 pst. This is an important conversion. One of the challenges when we shift the income system and change at borders, cf. The Namdal grant is that municipalities that are outside the borders, immediately experience that this is unfair, experience some injustice. They have the same challenges, they may be just beyond the boundary we establish, but they have the same structure in many ways, and they have the same challenges. This is something we have to be obs. We always have to keep this in mind when we make changes and adjustments to borders. I could give you one example. The Osen municipality in Sør-Trøndelag falls outside the Namdal grant, as it is not located in Namdalen. Thus, they find it unreasonable that they come out significantly worse than other municipalities within the borders, which then receive increased subsidies. When I bring this forward, it's because it's important that we're still obsessive about this, and that we look at how we can possibly compensate unfairness through the use of discretionary means. As we continue to maintain a large range of beauty products, it is important that we dare to consider how we may be able to correct distortions that are created in this way. It is my call to both the ministry and the county that here one must be obsessive and catch up on unfairness arising from adjustments aimed at improving today's system. We see the same thing in North Norway with regard to the action zone. It is important that we take seriously the municipalities that feel unreasonable that they are in the same action zone as the Finnish State municipalities, but that they receive a significantly lower grant. We must constantly be on the watch to meet the challenges facing these municipalities. We have written something about it in the setting, and I expect that the department will also follow up and watch and be in dialogue with these municipalities, so that what they experience as unreasonable can at least be communicated and possibly also made improvements or changes to. This budget is becoming important in many areas, but I would like to draw up the housing aid scheme. Here we take a real boost, a real improvement on today's housing system. On an annual basis, we're adding $1 billion. This is perhaps one of the most important poverty measures we can take. It is important to make housing affordable for a larger part of the population, which today falls outside the current housing support scheme, and the Government deserves praise for having taken this promise from 1 July 2009, with full-year effect from 2010. This is what many poor, many living in a difficult situation, will experience as a major and central response. It's being followed up. If, in addition, we can follow up on the improvement of the House Rental Act, which we are doing, and also improve the financing mechanism, at least increase the framework of the House Bank, we are developing a housing policy that is total and that is good. I see that there's only two seconds left, and I had a lot I should have said, but at least I get to stick to the clock that ticks and goes, so I say thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e375	Maybe the representative of Rikvam can get a little bit more said, because now it's going to be a line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e378	The SV representative Rikvam has submitted a report which he has called ‘Evailer’. This is undoubtedly a covering title, because what Rekovam does in the report is febrile to look for devices so that he can avoid modernising the public sector. In the report, Rikvam is simply in favour of reducing the use of competition and supply. Unfortunately, he has already been fully implemented in the Government, where SV has the Minister of Renewal. The Court of Auditors’ observations on the accounts for the 2007 financial year are simply full of criticisms associated with inadequate supply processes both in departments and in agencies. Let me not go into detail and comment on the lack of realism that is exposed in the proposal that private providers of public services, such as public services. should be non-profit. Instead, I would like to ask Rikvam the following questions: Do you really think that adding to the private sector is worse than adding to the public sector, and to what extent does the Labour Party and the Centre stand behind the ideological resistance of the SV to joining the private sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e390	First of all, I would like to congratulate Åge Starheim for having read the report entitled «Outcomes – The Interaction Model as an Alternative to New Public Management», and I really hope that everyone in this Chamber – there should have been more here – will read the report in the same way as Starheim, for it is exciting, it is interesting, and it is an invitation to debate. In the case of the second part of the question, which goes on what the Center Party and the Workers' Party mean, I can't answer it. The representative may ask them the question. I have at no time written in the report or said anything in the sense that those who work in the private sector are worse people. Starheim must have a lot of imagination when he suggests such things. What we have done is that we have tried to raise an ideological debate about how we are going to organise the public sector, what governance systems we are going to have in the public sector, and we have launched an idea that we call the interaction model, which challenges today's governance system.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e401	When the Right meets the Labour Party in debates on the situation in the field of asylum, and the Right believes that this government has liberalised asylum policy and that this is the cause of the great influx, the Labour Party responds that the Red-Green Government has continued the Right-wing asylum policy of the Bondevik II Government. At the same time, the Government has launched 13 tightening proposals, and SV supports most of them. Does this mean that SV is now behind an asylum policy that is stricter than the Bondevik II government stood for, or does the Workers' Party speak falsely when they use the kind of arguments against the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e408	We have debated asylum policy in the context of the new Education Act, and we have stated in the past that we regard that law as a step in the right direction. It's only been six months since we dealt with and passed the new law, and we've said that the conclusions that lie there are going in the right direction in many essential areas. Then the Labour Party must speak for the Workers' Party, and I speak for SV. We would probably want to go even further in many areas towards what I would call liberalisation, for example, I would like us to take in more quota refugees. In several areas, we want to move somewhat towards what we have called a somewhat more humane asylum policy, but, as I said, the steps we took in the law were steps in the right direction, as we see it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e415	There is no doubt that in Norwegian municipalities there is now a great deal of uncertainty about what the economy will look like next year. There are consultants who cut posts, there is uncertainty about tax revenue, and there is uncertainty about whether operational resources are allocated to municipalities in the New Year Action Package. This leads to the opposite of what SV wants in government, to increase the number of teachers in primary school, i.e. it's getting fewer, because you cut, because you see that you don't have the economy to maintain the teacher's density in 2008. Does the representative, Mr Reikham, not see the need to take action now in the balance of the budget and in the budget for next year to ensure that municipalities can contribute to the continuation of the welfare offer at the level we have had in 2008? Does the representative not see that those arrests need to be made?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e422	There were a lot of claims in that line. Firstly, I have to say that I am still a little uncertain about the tax revenue for 2009. The claim that tax revenue is lower than that estimated in the budget is a good option. I also fear that the tax revenue for 2009 may be somewhat lower, but we still know little about this, although there is reason to be any concern because of the increased unemployment in the future. The budget as it is now adding up to a certain real income increase for municipalities, so initially they should be able to maintain the offer at the level they had in 2008, under the assumptions contained in the budget. But if it continues to change dramatically, for example, that tax revenue goes down compared to what we've put in, because of increased unemployment, it's clear that this needs to be compensated, so it doesn't have any consequences. But we still know very little about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e431	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e434	In the same way as the Government has announced that in the new year there will be a package of measures to combat unemployment, it has to be announced that a crisis package will come for the municipalities. It is about the ability of municipalities to maintain today's services, today's nursery services, school services, care for the elderly – everything that is the closest welfare for all of us. It is urgent that the government go out and assure the municipalities that they also take this side of the challenges seriously, because the municipalities are laying their budgets. In municipalities by municipality, it is seen that it is cut off from important tasks such as health and school. According to the Municipal Report, half of the councillors propose cutbacks in positions from next year, and they fear failure in tax revenue. The situation for the municipalities is acute. It's urgent to signal what's coming in this crisis package, so they can avoid cutting. It must not be the case that the municipalities cancel teachers and carers. We must not risk postponing the construction of nursing homes and the upgrading of school buildings. Municipalities need a signal that: failure of tax revenues will be compensated and a package of measures will be put in place to support the maintenance of schools, churches, hospitals and nursing homes. We see a massive slowdown in the economy. Employment goes down, and unemployment goes up. We need to use the available capacity to improve the quality of welfare services and to re-establish the maintenance set-up. This ageing period began well when it came to the municipal economy. So it flattened out. Now we see a decline. The country needs increased public activity, not reduced. The framework we are adopting for the municipal sector today is not enough. Now we must have clear expectations that the Government will present an action plan quickly. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the interest-rate compensation system for schools and church buildings is back, because there is a great need for church maintenance. It is therefore positive that municipalities are given the opportunity to strengthen this work. In our alternative budget we would have a much larger framework, but it is good to get started. We believe that this scheme should also apply to new church buildings, as it did in the past, because it may be more appropriate in some municipalities to build new ones instead of cleaning up church buildings that are in poor condition. We are disappointed that the government parties will not include new church buildings and private schools in the interest compensation scheme. We are hoped that the Government will open up this in a new package of measures. There was a large majority to build that receives funds from the interest-rate compensation scheme for schools, churches and swimming facilities, following the principle of universal design. It is good and in line with the new anti-discrimination law that says that universal design should be the main rule. I am very pleased that a large majority of the Committee believes that Innovation Norway's instruments should be set up to provide grants for investment in small edge shops to provide the towns with contemporary premises and equipment. It is therefore necessary for the government to assess whether the rules can be amended to allow the edge shops in the Mercury programme to fall within the innovation of Norway’s investment grant schemes. An offensive and targeted district policy is important and it is important to make a special effort for the most vulnerable municipalities and local communities through good welfare arrangements, attractive communities and business development. Outlying shops play an important role in small communities, both to ensure access to groceries for the local population in the districts and as a meeting place and service centre for the population. Then I would point to the positive review of an overall committee giving the Catholic Church for the important effort the church is making for many labour immigrants in Norway. Especially for the large group of Polish workers, the church represents an important meeting place, where it provides information and social assistance. The largest group of immigrants to Norway are Polish workers. We therefore believe that priority should be given to allocating funds for information and guidance measures for 2009. The Christian People's Party would have liked to have seen that the psychiatry had been earmarked for another year, because we haven't come all the way to the plan. Unfortunately, it is not a majority, but we are pleased that the funds for the big cities are earmarked, as the committee has agreed. I would recommend the proposals of the Christian People's Party. In addition, I would say that the Christian People's Party supports the proposal No. 34, 35, and 36.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e473	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e476	The representative of Bjørg Tørresdal is often concerned with a humane refugee and asylum policy in his speeches. It's affordable. The important thing is not what you say, what you actually do. The previous period's government cooperation between the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left was probably no success story for the Christian People's Party's immigration policy, rather the opposite. Then there was a demonstration train for a more humane refugee and asylum policy. Bjørg Tørresdal did not mention much about this in his post now, but in a reply to Per-Willy Amundsen from the Progress Party earlier in the debate Bjørg Tørresdal was very critical to, among others. the Party's refugee and asylum policy; Now it's almost a choice. It's time for the chaos on the civil side to be cleared up. Then the question is asked to Bjørg Tørresdal: Does the representative Tørresdal see that it may at all be relevant for the Christian People's Party to be a supporting party for a government where the Progress Party will have an impact on its refugee and asylum policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e487	At first I thought I would be allowed to say something about the Christian People's Party's immigration policy, which is about us wanting a humane immigration policy based on the international conventions, in line with the UN recommendations. It's important for me to say this. If you go back to the central government, Bondevik I, and to the last ten years, you'll see that this is a red line for a more humane immigration policy. So to the government question: the government of the Christian People's Party has said that we want government cooperation based on centre, and that we cannot cooperate with a centre of gravity to the far right or to the left in Norwegian politics. We're becoming a center party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e494	Like the representative Arild Stokkan-Grande, I noticed that the representative Tørersdal did not talk about asylum and refugee policy in his speech, and that is perhaps a very good reason. In practice, the Christian People's Party has been a supporter of the totally misguided asylum policy of the current government, and even the Christian People's Party has criticized the Government for not being liberal enough in the field of immigration. We also see the consequences of this today. There may be some reason why the representative Tørresdal did not mention this in his post. In the current situation, we probably have over 20,000 illegal immigrants in Oslo alone. Is it still the case that the Christian People's Party wants an amnesty for illegal immigrants, or has it been chosen to abandon this totally irresponsible proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e502	Thank you for the opportunity to talk about our immigration policy. The most important step taken in this process of enlargement with regard to the Christian People's Party and immigration policy is the proposal promoted by Jon Lilletun and signed in this Chamber in 2006, which was about strengthening the rights of asylum-seekers. Fortunately, both the Left and the Government parties agreed to this proposal, and a number of changes were proposed, both for the children who were in Norway and for children who came to Norway in the future, as a strengthening of their rights in line with the Children’s Convention. We're very proud of that. Then to the long-term asylum seekers. They're a composite group. Some are victims of human trafficking, some are so-called irreversible – they cannot be sent home to the country they came from. It is not possible to have an unhealthy attitude towards this group. The Christian People's Party has said that we want people to be treated for humanitarian reasons or for strong human reasons to be included in their lives in Norway. This means that those who have lived here for a long time will have their residence in Norway and the degree to which they are integrated into their assessment. It's human policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e511	Bjørg Tørresdal spent a lot of time making the government too slow to act in the face of the financial crisis that we have seen, and that the municipal sector is an important player in active counter-cyclical policies. In her reply to me, she pointed out that income is likely to be lower than provided in the budget, because we are getting more unemployment, etc. etc. Since the Christian People's Party is so fast now and believes that they have an overview of the situation and know a little more than what we probably know, it's important that that information comes out. My question to Bjørg Tørresdal is: How much does the Christian People's Party believe that municipalities need increased grants on the operating side to possibly compensate for lower incomes than foreseen, and to use the operation in an active countercyclical policy? It would be interesting to know what numbers you're operating on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e518	I hope that the Government will be pleased that the Christian People's Party is offensive in proposing good offensive action to ensure well-being, because it is the welfare that is important, not who makes the proposals. But the government has been slow. We are pleased that the government is coming on the track and saying that there is more to it. It gives hope to those who sit around in Norwegian municipalities and are responsible for well-being. In terms of numbers, let's take the tax income. Now we've read and heard in the media that it could be NOK 3 billion. I agree with the State Council of Meltveit Kleppa that there may be uncertain figures, but then it should be okay for the sitting government to say that they want to compensate for the failure of the tax revenue, so that it becomes as intended or as intended when the state budget was presented. We want to build on numbers that are serious, and we know that there is uncertainty about them, but a guarantee says something about us being at the level proposed in the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e525	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e528	Norway is originally established in the territory of two peoples — Samer and Nordmen — and both peoples have the same right and the same right to develop their culture and language. I have a four-year-old at home who now jumps around and sings "Oro jaska beana", and there is no doubt that Nesseby's cultural campaign has brought with it a whole new pride and awareness of Sami language and identity among most of us and especially among young people. I would like to congratulate the municipality and The BlackSheeps on a fantastic Sami and Norwegian victory in the Nordic final of the Melodi Grand Prix Junior! The winner shows that you get the longest to be yourself, and that talent knows no limits. The Samien Sitje on Snåsa and the Same People's Fund have a central role in the work of Sami language, and I am therefore pleased that the Government is providing funds for, among others. the Sami language action plan. We are promised a large and broad commitment to the municipalities, and a good proof that until now the government has made it clear is that we have been employed by 45,600 people since 2005 with pre-school teachers, janitors, help nurses and other service providers. In comparison, the Solberg regime cut 3,000 jobs in the years before us. In addition to the construction of 1000 new nursing homes, 1000 student housing and 2000 new kindergartens, the government provides grants for 1,500 municipal rentals for the next year. We also get back in place the loan scheme with interest compensation for school buildings and pools as well as for church buildings. But when that is said, we are painfully aware of the situation of many municipalities and citizens now in, with increased unemployment, increased expenditure, increased pension contributions and tight budgets. NAV Nord-Trøndelag's forecast for the county reports a clear decline in employment in the coming years. In particular, construction, industry, transport and communication, business services, trade in goods, hotels and restaurants, there is a risk that unemployment will increase. Good interest-reimbursement schemes are of little help if a person does not have a good interest rate and a fair share to cover payments in the municipalities. We therefore take the municipalities on board, and I myself often call home to follow the development. We learn that many municipalities are waiting, but others are also active and are already planning for the new situation, because they know how important they are for employment and welfare in times of crisis. ‘2009 will be the start of some solid school extension years for Nord-Trøndelag’, we could read in Trønder-Avisa yesterday. Earlier this month we were able to read about the county's investment in high school, over $1 billion in the next few years, and now Verdal is following up with Verdalsøra high school with a new gym and renovation of the swimming pool as well as the rebuilding of the Vuku school. Steinkjer starts school construction on Beistad and Egge, and then the schools in Kvam and Byafossen come the following year. Stjørdal is launching the major project Stokkan School, and in addition, Lånke School is completed. Namsos builds Bangsund school, and Levanger builds school in Forest. That's how you can keep going. Such efforts are accurate and proactive and demonstrate the will of municipalities to meet expectations of good school buildings, but also to remedy the situation. But this also gives the government a strong signal to follow up with a good and accurate package of measures after Christmas. There is no doubt that municipalities need free resources to benefit from interest-rate compensation schemes. However, it is important that this is done correctly — unbureaucratic, accurate and thoughtful. The government proposes to transfer DKK 2.56 billion to regional and regional development funds in 2009, an increase of 182 million. kr from the previous year, this in order for people to remain able to live and thrive wherever they want. It is useful to focus on opportunities in the districts. The government can facilitate the situation, but there are still people living in the communities who need to exploit the resources that exist there. The establishment of the Regional Development Competence Centre, the District Centre, with its main base in Steinkjer, will be fully operational from 2009 onwards with an increased framework of 5.5 million. NOK – to a total of 21,5 million. kr. The Centre is part of improving the security of performance and ensuring the long-term effects of local development and ensuring an even better coherence between national initiatives and local and regional development. The Centre Party considers it important to systematise and increase knowledge of the effects of regional and regional policy efforts. We need to use the country's money wisely and find the measures that work, and we are therefore eager to see the results through evidence of trends, challenges and impacts of action, through cooperation with research and development environments and commissioned investigations, cross-border and municipal experience transfer, guidance, dissemination and new created meeting places. We expect the District Centre to build a common knowledge base and to help better equip district municipalities to succeed in developing their communities. The center has already started the work, and we are eager to follow along.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e549	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e552	The centre party has now stopped referring to the Soria Moria statement and how overfilled it is. Now, often, what will happen next year, and what measures the municipalities will see next year, in February, that is, what the Hagebaken referred to, the conversation the Prime Minister has with the other parliamentary leaders. But the local authorities have a different experience from what the Central Party is now explaining today, because it turns out that every third municipality in the West is considering schooling in its budgets. The Official Journal of the European Communities has carried out a review of the budgets of Hordaland and Sogn and Fjordane. There it turns out that 20 municipalities want or consider going to cross-border schools. Is this a district policy the Center Party can stand in for? Is this a development the Center Party can live with in government, and what will the Center Party do with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e559	I notice that the opposition is asking the same question almost to all three government parties, to try to find something that divides us in the vision of the package of measures to come. Unfortunately, I have to confirm that this division is not getting you from us here today. We agree that the forthcoming package of measures should be well thought out and considered. We've already started securing interest and banks. The center party is very pleased with the work the government is doing in terms of monitoring the situation, and we're sure that this will be handled in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e564	In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Central Party was given the advantage that the Government would launch a multi-annual escalating plan for the local economy. Now we're sitting with the fasit for three out of four years, and we're in front of a year that's very uncertain. The fasitator tells us that both in 2007 and 2008 we have had a negative growth in the free income of municipalities. The municipalities report, and have reported in these two years, very clearly what that means. Does the Central Party now believe that the promise of a multi-annual escalation plan for the local economy has been fulfilled? Or is it that this was a one-off bet in 2006, which the municipalities have seen little in retrospect?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e571	I don't think Bent Höie has come with me in my post. I framed a whole series of measures that we are pleased with and proud of, which we have achieved because of the increase in the municipal economy that we believe has occurred in recent years. An increased framework of over NOK 28 billion in recent years is not said to be a decline in the growth of the free resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e576	I know that it has been important for the Central Party to put in place an interest-rate compensation scheme for schools and church buildings. They have supported this Christian People's Party in more or less the entire process of enlargement, and they are probably very happy that it has now come into place. But what amazes the Christian People's Party is that the Center Party will not introduce the arrangement as it was under Bondevik II, namely, to open up, in those cases where it is most favorable, to build new churches instead of cleaning up old ones. That was the old arrangement. At that time, the Center Party supported the arrangement that included new churches. Why all day long does the Center Party now say no?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e582	We do have an overview of the country's churches and church buildings, and the need for church building, and based on the assessment we have made, we have so far seen no need for new church buildings. But if a lot of needs are reported, we should definitely consider it. As regards the interest-rate compensation scheme, including in the future, in the context of the package of measures, we should assess whether there is a possibility to open the scheme for possible new buildings and, where appropriate, to take up maintenance on other public buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e589	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e592	The government parties have talked a lot about increasing revenues for the municipalities during their reign, and it is right to say that the Left has largely followed the Government's increases. We've temporarily distributed a little bit more to the counties. In the current budget we also give a little more to the counties to introduce youth cards in public transport, which we think are important. Increased revenues, freer revenues and less earmarking for municipalities are a matter of concern to the Left. It has to do with the basic foundation of local self-government. There is little help in increasing revenue by 50 pst. during this period when the cost increase has been higher. It is therefore not surprising that, according to newspaper headlines, many municipalities now have budget cuts. There has been a record high wage settlement, high interest rates, large borrowings and high price growth, and all of this is exacerbating the local economy. Unfortunately, this has particularly affected the school effort, both in the primary municipalities and in the county municipalities. In terms of efficiency, there are many approaches to it. But it's important to keep focusing on it all the time. The rounds of municipal mergers in the 1960s, which resulted from the work of the Schei Committee, show quite interesting results now 40 years later. In my own county, More and Romesdal, a number of municipalities were merged. A comparison of the KOSTRA figures between the merged municipalities and those that were not there in Møre and Romesdal shows that in 2007, the merged municipalities spent 86 million. kr more for administration. At the same time they got 193 million. kr less in free income. What is the point, then, of some municipalities, in another similar neighborhood, taking out the effect of the merger for 40-50 years, while others are going to live happily on with the same means and the same limits? We need to move towards an income system that promotes optimal use of resources and increased cooperation, which promotes quality and contributes to simplification. It is the costs of operating the municipalities that make up the major differences today. In several media, representatives of the Government and government parties have announced that the municipal sector will be part of the crisis package that is due to come in the new year. The municipal sector may be a favourable sector to employ more people, whose unemployment continues to rise, but not unconditionally. We must continue to see more efficient use of resources in the municipal sector. More attention needs to be paid to service production and less to administration. It must not be that more hands in the health sector necessarily mean more heads to manage precisely these hands. 1 pst. Improving the efficiency of the municipal sector can bring a benefit of DKK 3 billion. But it seems that such perspectives are absent from the Government. The word ‘try’ appears to be a quad. The financial crisis can also be used to mitigate the climate crisis. The municipal sector can contribute to a reduction of up to 20 pst. of the emissions of climate change in Norway, and that possibility should be exploited by the Government by stimulating municipalities to become shiny green environmental municipalities. The left will work to ensure that Norway discharges both legal and moral obligations towards people on the run. Therefore, in our alternative budget, we propose that Norway accept 500 more transfer refugees than the Government provides. The left also believes that voluntary organisations can contribute to a greater degree, and it is important to stimulate them to a greater level of activity. The left wants to give more priority to those who need it the most. Unfortunately, we have over 5,000 homeless people in Norway. There is a great need for more housing for disadvantaged people, both in cities and districts. The left welcomes the Government’s proposal to increase housing support and change the criteria for housing support. The government deserves praise for it. But in order to get the full effect of it, the Left in its budget proposes to extend the amortisation period for start-up loans from 20 to 30 years. It is important that we have a debate on housing policy in Norway where we focus on the weakest and most likely opportunities for them to have the fair requirement of owning a home. Finally, I refer to the proposal for which the Left is the author of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e615	The representative Leif Helge Kongshaug has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e620	Is the Left aware of the extent of the differences in the municipality's assumption to obtain tax revenue? I ask because the Left suggests that we go beyond what is the situation today, that now the tax is 47 pst. of the income of municipalities. The left will, along with the right, that it will be 50 pst. We suggest that it should go down to 45 pst. Because we want to equalize more of the differences. Why is it that the Left is so deeply concerned with the tax-rich municipalities, the richest municipalities, but fails the tax-weak?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e627	It must always be such that, whether it is an enterprise, a municipality or a private entity, there must be an incentive and an initiative to generate its own income. This also applies to the municipalities, and it is incredibly important, especially in the district municipalities around Norway, that we have politicians in charge of creating new activity and future-oriented jobs. An incentive through tax revenue is important precisely for such an activity. Therefore, it is important to provide such incentives in order to also create active communities. This balance sheet is important to keep.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e632	I noticed that neither the representative of Kongshaug spoke in his speech about the immigration situation in Norway, which is an important part of the budget we are discussing today. There may also be a reason why the Left chooses not to do so, because the Left actually goes further than the sitting government in wanting to pursue an irresponsible, liberal refugee and asylum policy. In my speech, I tried to challenge the Storting to think about the long lines and look at the consequences of the policy that is now being pursued – raise my eyes and see the consequences that we can experience – namely, that Oslo gets immigrant majority before 2029, that ethnic Nordics become a minority in Norway during this century. My question to the representative of Kongshaug is: is there a development that the Left seems to be quite fine, that ethnic Northmen should become a minority in their own country?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e639	It is clear that the Progress Party and the Left have different views on immigration policy. The left has no wording on whether there should be more nordics or not vis-à-vis immigrants in the country. But what is left's policy is a humane immigration policy, which takes account of international conventions and international refugee policies, among others. by virtue of the legislation of the United Nations. We take into account the individual's fate or situation when dealing with the application, and we don't divide into groups and say that we don't want that group, and we want that group. I think that we also need immigration in Norway in the time to come, just to keep track of the growth in the economy that we all depend on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e646	Since Kongshaug is not in the committee, I'm going to stick to the more general and the principleal. On page 20 of this setting, Left writes, among other things. ‘For this member, however, the objective is that the growth of public expenditure must be lower than the growth of society elsewhere.’ Why this is a goal, says one no thing about, and Kongshaug can then be allowed to explain to us why exactly this is a goal. But what I really want to ask is: we look into 2009, with probably low growth in society elsewhere – and will this goal, as the Left draws up, limit our ability to pursue an active counter-cyclical policy? If growth in the public sector is to be at least no higher than the growth of society elsewhere, or the total growth of society, it is clear that this will place strong limits on our ability to pursue an active counter-cyclical policy. That's what I'm assuming from the left-hand insight. Then my question is, Will this objective, which the Left draws out clearly for us, be governing when the Left proposes its countercyclical policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e660	There is a financial crisis, and various crisis packages are established in this context. Now we have a low unemployment situation. We need all the hands we have in society, for active work. We need to have a strong public sector – that is the left-wing supporter of – but we also need to make sure that we have the necessary private labour market that provides the basis for all the well-being we have in Norway. Like SV, the left of the perception is that we can't live forever on oil revenues. Therefore, we also need to facilitate a knowledge-based, innovative business. It is important to have enough of it just to provide the basis for a strong public sector and to facilitate welfare development. With regard to the concrete situation for 2009, the Left will be involved in measures to reduce unemployment, increase activity in municipalities, but we will be careful to introduce things that will become permanent schemes and, as we know, it is difficult to go back on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e671	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e675	For the first time, the income of municipalities passes NOK 300 billion – in 2009. In total, income during this period has increased by NOK 28.6 billion when we take into account the cost growth. 8.4 billion more in 2009 – this is a significant investment compared to previous years. Some want to establish an idea that these money has gone away. You don't have them. Local authorities have made good use of this possibility. The number of persons employed has increased by 45,600. It's in stark contrast to the previous period, with a decrease of 3,000. The first two years of the day’s government had 35 new children’s playgrounds each day. 15 more were added in the care sector every day. Well, that makes a difference. This, of course, means an extra amount for all the families who have now been given the opportunity to deliver their children to a safe nursery each morning, and for the many in institutions that get a more dignified care. Unfortunately, 2008 has become an extra demanding year. Local authorities have received less money than planned. Wages and salaries are an important reason, with the subsequent pension expenditure and with the costs now borne by municipalities in 2009. Then the financial turmoil also enters the municipality of Norway. Let me say, tax revenue is an important provision for the budgets that are being created these days. Here's some uncertainty about how the tax is going to be next year. That's actually what we know. The government has now added an estimate of 3 pst. We are aware that that estimate can be changed. Let me say that if the tax revenue is lower than the tax base of the State budget, the sector will be compensated for that. The government is busy with the local government running an ongoing efficiency improvement work. Not all of them are in Stortinget who make it that way. But it's actually important to us that this comes, that it comes from below and that it happens in cooperation between the elected, the elected and the leaders. In the quality community programme, the aim is to increase the quality and effectiveness of municipal services through constructive interaction. It is a specific objective to reduce sick leave in the municipal sector. I have visited several municipalities in this application. For example, the centre of Sykhemjem in Bodø has only halved the sick absence in six months. In Ashim, they have an impressive result, from almost 40 pst. to 10 pst. sick leave in the Grøtved kindergarten. There are 124 municipalities in this programme. If all in sight, 1 pst was successful. reduction in sick leave, it would amount to DKK 1.5 billion disposed of for other purposes. Even if a lot has been done, it is still a long time. Too often there are still some stories that don't all get that offer they should. That is why we are moving forward with a commitment to local well-being. Norway is now entering a more uncertain and demanding time. However, we are better equipped than many other countries to deal with the international financial crisis, among others. because we have a large public sector. Municipalities play an important role here. The municipal sector's share of the employment rate is 19 pst. Municipalities are a major buyer of building industry assignments because they manage 32 million. m2. That's 10 pst. of the country's total mass of buildings. The government has announced that the local government sector will be an important part of the new year’s package of measures. We are sending a letter to the municipalities today to prepare a faster phase-in of planned projects, both for maintenance and for investment. I have a meeting with KS in the morning to further detail what the municipalities can set up with. Let me end by saying: Of course, I would use something of my speaking time to delight in an offensive housing policy, to tell more about results in district policy. I hope I can come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e704	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e707	190 students at a secondary school in Narvik were required to have the exam, but the doors of the classrooms were closed. Everyone was sent home with the exams to solve them there. It turned out that the Protective Officer had closed all the classrooms because of the health-threatening indoor climate of the students. Does the Council of State think it satisfactory that the students are doing exams at home? Does the Council of State see that Narvik and many other municipalities in Norway need an upgrade and upgrading of school buildings and that they want to get started quickly? When does the Council of State think she can satisfy all municipalities in Norway, and not least the students and parents, with a proper indoor climate in school buildings?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e714	Today's situation in Narvik is just highlighting the importance of continuing to invest in the municipal sector. It's about free hands for different tasks. But of course it's also about the most necessary maintenance. There's a aftermath. That is why the Government has already introduced a loan scheme into the 2009 budget for schools, basins and churches. For this reason, the Government has announced that the local government sector will become an important part of the package of measures to be developed. We know that there are plans and projects here, and we want the municipalities to start from 1 January. They have the possibility, if they now turn around quickly and use the possibilities from 1 January.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e719	According to Telemarksaviase on 29 November, Rjukan's death has been announced by the Councillor in Tinn Municipality. The background is that the municipality of Tin is in an extremely difficult situation, with a population decline that now threatens the whole foundation of well-being and infrastructure up there. The local community is fighting for life. The reason why Rjukan is endangered is the closure of Hydro in the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s. Despite promises of assistance from the central authorities, the municipality of Tin has so far not received any Drabenhilfe. In spite of this – after almost four years with the red-green government, the municipality has still not been given any clarifications on Hydro’s concession terms. Nor have any instruments been made available for conversion, as has been the intention and the agreements with the Ministry. Now the councillor, Rune Lødøen, has written a letter to the department asking the Council of State to take the initiative as soon as possible for a meeting with the departments and agencies concerned to get the necessary money in place. What initiatives will the Council of State take to secure the future of the Rjukan community?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e728	No one should be in doubt that the government wants people to have the opportunity to live where they want to. We are facilitating it through an active and comprehensive district policy. We've increased the funding for what comes under regional and regional policy instruments by 500 million. kr no for the period and additional investment in the 2009 budget. Then I have registered that there is a letter from the municipality of Tin. I'll take a very close look at that. I hear at Holmberg that this is a very comprehensive problem, and here it is a story that goes far back, and that also applies to written governments. The municipality will have its answer. We're going to take this very seriously, and that's all I can say today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e735	The Christian People's Party is concerned that the interest-rate compensation scheme for the maintenance of schools and church buildings should also include new church buildings – the last time we had the arrangement, and it was successful. I am pleased that the system has started, and I want it to be extended to new churches. The representative of Brustad Moe gave positive feedback in his response to my reply, that one would assess this in the context of the package of measures. Is this a view of the Council of State sharing? Or, in another way, will the Council of State go in order to open up new church buildings when one is about to look at a further extension of the scheme in the context of the package of measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e742	It is nice to record that the Christian People's Party is pleased with the arrangements that are in place now from 1 January. I believe the representative agrees with me that it is now about making the municipalities turn around quickly so that we do not get any time of death from January. So the different measures here are going to be reviewed. I also believe that the representative Tørresdal has brought with him. At the moment, we are in an intensive period when it concerns work and organisation to see which proposals are to be covered by the package of measures, while at the same time listening to various bodies. I myself will have a meeting with KS tomorrow to find out what municipalities can do. The Prime Minister is meeting with the parliamentary leaders today. I don't see any reason at that time to directly notify what's coming under the scheme, nor reject anything. New churches are one of many proposals that need to be considered.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e749	Like the Government, and the Center Party, the Left is concerned that we should have a strong public sector. Of course, it requires more money, and it requires real growth. I have constantly registered the rhetoric about how much more money this government has spent than the previous government in various areas. Now it turns out that the real growth in the municipal sector is about the same under the previous government — so far during this government period. What is the difference between the policies of the Central Party and the Government and those of the Left is that we not only want a strong public sector, but we also want a modern public sector. It requires renewal, and it requires simplification. It requires focusing on costs and making things simpler internally in each municipality, but also in the municipality of Norway as a whole. What are the intentions of the Council of State to streamline municipal administration — get the most help out of the money allocated?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e756	First to the local economy. There are so many things that can be said about it. I actually think that 45,600 more were added in the period, against the previous government minus 3,000, making a big difference. Then for renewal and modernisation. I am impressed by all the work being done today in the municipal sector. Here, there are efficiency networks under the auspices of the KS, and the quality community programme of which 124 municipalities are part I have had the opportunity to study closely myself. I recommend Kongshaug to take a closer look at it. Then I understand that there is a kind of complex in relation to how effective small municipalities are in relation to large ones. I think that's a myth, cf. The merger in Denmark, which led to 1,650 more bureaucrats.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e763	The Progress Party wants a fundamentally different funding of municipalities and of fundamental welfare tasks. We want an automatic financing of e.g. Gudrun's nursing home place on the day she needs it, guaranteed by the state. But within today's system, which we of course have to deal with yet so long, it should be natural to seek to get as much justice as possible. That is why the Progress Party put itself behind an overall committee when we asked for equal treatment of the municipalities included in the Action Zone. The government followed up on the small municipal grant, but did not do so in relation to the North Norway grant. It didn't have to cost anything in particular. This could have been done internally by redistributing between Finnmark and Nord-Troms. My question to the Council of State is: Why does the Government not want to treat the municipalities included in the Action Zone in the same way?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e771	First, when it comes to non-discrimination in general in the municipal sector, I have spent some time understanding the Progress Party system there – without any luck. It seems that the Progress Party has an exaggerated belief that only one makes a system state-owned, and only one makes a system price-funded, is all right. I thought the Progress Party should think about it a little bit – think about which administration and what system needs to be in place locally to get to that very thing. When it comes to Nord-Troms, I have taken the committee note seriously. I have looked very closely at the situation in the municipalities of Nord-Troms, I have looked at what was the history of the creation of the action zone. Therefore, I have made an adjustment, i.e. that one makes everyone the same when it applies to small municipal allowances. Besides that, there's exactly equal treatment that's why we don't propose to sideline Nord-Troms and Finnmark completely.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e778	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e781	With the cold and creepy gust that flowed through the hall when Per-Willy Amundsen made his contribution, I understand well that the president found it necessary to find a woolen pail to warm himself under. I'm going to hopefully make a post that warms the President's heart more. In contrast to the Progress Party, we in the Labour Party believe that immigration is fundamentally positive for Norway. We're dependent on it. We want it. In good times it is easy to see the benefits of it. But as we approach worse times, our attitudes are put to the test. All in Norway will have the same opportunities to succeed in their lives. Of course, it's a private responsibility. But society also has a role to play in facilitating education, labour market policy and housing policy. I am pleased that the Government is offensive in all these areas. The municipalities are the main integration arena. From the first moment, an apparatus should be ready to assist people in what they need, whether they are in reception, as family reunions or as immigrants. We have good arrangements, and we're constantly working on improving those arrangements. Municipalities must be heavily rusted to handle this. We work systematically to cover the costs that municipalities have, as a result of taking a national responsibility. Now the government also covers most of the expenditure incurred by municipalities in operating reception and housing. Another integration tool we should focus more on is volunteering. Voluntary Norway can play a key role in integration. There is often more effective integration work in the voluntary sector than in many of the institutionalised schemes we have. An example of this is the Red Cross, which operates women’s cafes in Oslo – places where women can learn from each other, where they see that they are not alone about the challenges they face in everyday life and where they can get help and guidance on. We have to support that kind of work. As many people have seen in this debate, the financial crisis is hitting us hard. Immigrants can notice the consequences first. They already have even worse wages, worse working conditions and worse working conditions than the Nordics in general, and they are often more at risk of accidents at work. Now I'm afraid it's the ones who lose jobs first, when we're probably getting more unemployment. We see that many of the immigrants are tenants. Now we see trends that they start to wear on this market as well. Stig Höjsetther of the Bergen Liaison Group says that he is afraid that the financial crisis and pressure on the rental market only makes the situation worse for the immigrants. It is important now to be offensive and vigilant, especially in relation to this group. As regards both effective integration measures and measures to help people get education, employment and housing, only this government has both the ability and the willingness to have the right combination of private responsibility and public goods.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e800	In the last three years, and the latest in this year's financial debate, we have heard the brunt of how excellent conditions have been in the municipality of Norway since the government of Stoltenberg took over the country. Reality is something completely different than what the government is trying to make people believe in. Around the municipalities, the vast majority of local politicians cut their budget proposals – some large cuts. On the other hand, the slump about money for municipalities has resulted in local politicians making investments far beyond what they have had their backbone to bear. But after the sweet claw comes the sour porridge. In Sogn and Fjordane, we have heard from the leader of the Labour Party that there must be more money for the municipalities. A short time ago, I was at a meeting in Måløy, where some people working in the care sector had invited me to a meeting on care for the elderly – or the lack of this. They could inform about a health supply to the inhabitants of this municipality that was not in any way in the style of the government party boast, on the contrary. The rapporteur, who comes from the Labour Party, explained that the government's promises did not even cover the increase in the cost of interest and pay. Both the Prime Minister and others in the government parties repeatedly repeat how many new fresh hands have come in the care and care sector. This bluff can be a documenter is tricking with numbers. Taking a starting point from the annual report from the municipality of Eid in Sogn and Fjordane, you will see that there is a big gap between KOSTRA and reality. In previous meetings with the County of Sogn and Fjordane several major anomalies emerged. This may mean a bug report of several hundred years' work only in Sogn and Fjordane. After what we see in the national media and the local press – and not least what we have experienced on committee trips – one must be allowed to say that the self-criticism we have heard from this pulpit is quite so eloquent. One cannot look at the self-criticism of any motive other than that they believe that a falsely said many times, hopes that the voters will see it as a truth. When you look at a cut in the care sector, which is a consequence of the year’s management of the municipal budget, the representatives from the government parties have little to boast about. The call from the local politicians, including those from the government party, has reached our ears, and we dare to make the claim that it has also reached the ears of the government party, but they are unfortunately closed, and reality is being displaced. We've taken some serious calls for help. Our alternative budget for the local government sector reflects the actual demands of local politicians. There have been several debates and interviews on the renewal of the public sector in the past in this Chamber. The need is great. We have major challenges in education and health. We in the Progress Party dare to claim that we have a public sector that is overmanaged. We're struggling with an animal school that delivers poor results and elephants with weak testimonies. While the rest of the world realizes that freedom of choice and freshman is good, well the current government to resort to old social-democratic solutions, which for the most part have expired on date. We see that the same resistance to anything that can remind us of private entries and competition also has consequences in the health care system. Health cows grow smooth and tight. Unfortunately, it does not seem that the sitting government is taking this on board at all. On the contrary, the Council of State says that's how they want it. This is our policy, she says. Such a reactionary policy is doomed to fail. For us in the Progress Party, it now looks like the country has a department called the Ministry of Renewal, which has no other task than to administer a test scheme with six hours of work. It is now time for our Prime Minister to present the quotations he made before he became Prime Minister, where he also pointed out the need for the renewal of the public sector. Unfortunately, it may seem that the Prime Minister has left his or her notes or has displaced his or her earlier opinions. Thus, according to the Progress Party's view, things go in the wrong direction when it comes to the renewal and modernisation of the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e823	The budget will require 15 000 asylum seekers to come to Norway in 2009, approximately as in 2008. The government is implementing a number of measures to limit the number of asylum seekers who do not need protection. Arrivals in the last few months show a certain decline compared to previous months. It is too early to say whether there is a direct consequence of the measures that will be implemented. Long processing time for asylum cases has a significant expenditure page related to long residence in reception. Furthermore, it hampers the return of persons who are finally refused. Long stays in reception also delay the integration and residence of those who are granted residence. Therefore, the Government has proposed to strengthen the procedural capacity of UDI and UNE. The return of persons with a final refusal is an important prerequisite for the functioning of the asylum institution. For the government has invested in return and return has had a high priority, and we propose to strengthen it further. Furthermore, the government has a clear objective of modernising and streamlining the foreign management. An important measure is the deployment of new ICT systems, including the introduction of electronic archiving and processing systems. Twenty million. It is therefore proposed in 2009. The government will pursue an active integration and inclusion policy to ensure that newly arrived immigrants can quickly enter income-generating work or education. All residents of Norway shall have equal opportunities to participate in society. The Government proposes several measures to cover the costs of municipalities and to increase the quality of the offer in reception. The State budget envisages the continuation of the increased investment from the revised national budget in 2008. The average expenditure of the host municipalities on administration, interpretation, health and child protection is now fully compensated. In order to improve the situation of children in reception, it is proposed to strengthen the activity offer and the Government proposes to increase the efforts of lone minor asylum seekers. The Government also proposes strengthened allocations to increase the number and quality of enhanced reception facilities, including the provision of services. by strengthening manning. In 2007, the Government presented for the first time a separate action plan for the integration and inclusion of the immigrant population. The action plan was followed up and strengthened in 2008, and the Government proposes further strengthening in 2009. Persistent low incomes occur more frequently in the immigrant population than in the population as a whole. The government will prevent the development of a classed society in which people with a migrant background have a lower living conditions and a lower level of social participation than the rest of the population. The action plan for integration and inclusion must therefore be seen in the context of the Action Plan against Poverty. The Government has decided to draw up an action plan to improve the living conditions of Oslo. In this respect, the Government proposes to increase the allocation of space measures by 3 million. kr. In the Single European Act, the Government focuses on the importance of strengthening Sami language and Sami language information. Sami language is still in a vulnerable position. In particular, the small Sami languages are concerned. Therefore, the Government, in cooperation with the Sameting, will develop an action plan for Sami languages. The government proposes a total of 8 million. to that action plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e844	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e847	In my speech, I tried to encourage growth and government to raise their eyes, see the long lines, see what consequences in the long term immigration policy is taking place today, will have for Norway as a nation. My perception is that the council and others don't see the forest for just trees. You're so busy here and now that you don't see the consequences in the long term. The consequences may be that Oslo, as I said in my post, has a majority of immigrants before 2029, that Norway, as a nation, has a majority of immigrants during this century, precisely because the long lines of Norwegian immigration policy are not seen. Is it conscious? Is there something that the Council of State simply will not deal with, or is there at least a small will to try to see the long-term effect of Norwegian immigration policy on this nation?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e852	It could have been tempting to characterise the post that the representative Amundsen made earlier today. I think I would have chosen other characteristics than to raise my eyes. On the contrary, I think that the article was marked by an approach to immigration which fortunately differs quite clearly from what the large majority in this Chamber stands for. Immigration to Norway takes place in different ways. The representative Amundsen has been involved in asylum policy, but it is therefore only a small part of immigration to Norway. We also have labour immigration. We have a desire for more labour immigration in order to be able to solve the challenges of society. The representative mentions Oslo as an example. So it's like a lot in the Oslo community, and we can say about a lot of other communities in Norway, wouldn't go around if we didn't have people with a different background than the Norwegian to participate in society, to do the jobs that are to be done. Personally, my grandfather was Danish. I do not know whether it is also doubtful for the representative Amundsen, but it is a well-known case that over time those who have come to Norway will be as good Northmen as Amundsen and me.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e863	The right in its alternative state budget increases the refugee quota by 500. In yesterday's foreign debate, the representative Finn Martin Vallersnes asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs about the Government's position on human rights in Russia, because we now feel that Norway says no and rejects applications for asylum from human rights defenders from North Caucasus. Since 2003, the Helsinki Committee has asked that persecuted human rights defenders be brought to Norway on the refugee quota. This has also been a practice. Now we have criticism from the Council of Europe, for this system has been almost eliminated under the red-green government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said he had to check the matter. But can the responsible State Council for Refugee Policy explain on what basis the tightening of North Caucasus and Russia has come about?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e870	I registered that the Right for a while back suggested accepting 500 extra quota refugees. At that time, the reason was Congo. I'm recording, and I think that's for the benefit of the Right, that the reason has gradually fallen away, and we are accepting quota refugees based on the needs defined by the High Commissioner for Refugees. In the case of refugees from Russia, it may be from the Caucasus, Chechnya or elsewhere, it is a reality that there is a large proportion of rejection. The principle, set out in the 13 points now put forward to clarify refugee policy and asylum policy, is that each individual should be assessed on the basis of their individual situation. It is an important principle to maintain, and it is, in fact, a fundamental principle of the Geneva Convention. It must also apply to people from Russian regions and other areas of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e877	The Council of State used much of its intervention to talk about the increased asylum seekers’ influx into the country and the measures that the Government has now announced that it will bring into force to limit the flow. The Christian People's Party agrees that we must limit the influx of unfounded applications. We agree that one must tighten up the procedure and get a more effective return from those who do not need protection. That is why we support a number of measures taken by the Government. But we have problems in supporting child restraint, and we have great problems both in supporting and understanding the argument when a person tightens up the right to family reunification. So one says that one should hit the unfounded applications, but the one that's tightening up is the right to family reunification. That's not what I'm going to do. What is the rationale for this tightening up?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e885	Both in the case of family establishment and family reunification, the proposals shall be put to the consultation and discussed before they are adopted as many of the other 13 proposals. There's an opportunity to come up with counter-conceptions to them. It has been raised beyond any doubt that the possibility of quickly establishing families after a possible stay in Norway is one of the criteria that help people to choose where they want to travel. We think it is important and right when the number of asylum seekers is rising a great deal, and even if the proportion of people who stay goes down, more people will stay, that part of the measures taken in this context is that – especially in the case of family start-ups due to the fact that more people are coming – one has to wait longer to have family start-ups in the future. We believe that that is right, especially to the group that is not allowed to stay for reasons of protection, but on a humanitarian basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e892	The pooling will increase the use of translation of Norwegian learning materials to rapidly produce Sami learning materials. There is one of several measures that should be put in place. However, it can be incorporated into the range of challenges for Sami learning material production. Just as Sami textbook writers like to be employed at school or in public, so are translators. Ergo must take leave or be bought free. Many have so far refused to take leave because they lose employee rights. Will the State Council address this challenge with the Sameting and County Council in Finnmark, with a view to designing agreements that ensure better conditions for Sami educational material producers?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e899	In the case of Sami educational materials, the Ministry of Knowledge is mainly responsible for it, in close cooperation with the Sametinget. I am aware that the State Secretary of the Ministry of Knowledge recently met with the Sametinget to discuss the general situation of teaching materials, for which the Sametinget has the overall responsibility from government appropriations. With regard to the special situation for those who may apply for a public position waiver to implement a project on writing teaching materials, I think we need to approach that challenge as a general problem. I find it hard to imagine that it is only right to do it for one group, because – as the representative himself mentions – there may also be others who write textbooks in Norwegian, to the Norwegian language in school, which may be in the same situation. I will take the views of the representative further, but I think the matter will be best served by an assessment on a general basis and not just on a Sami basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e908	The government will spend DKK 8.6 billion on direct immigration-related budget expenditure in the 2009 budget. Let me put the billion in perspective by comparing the costs of immigration bureaucracy with a couple of other budget costs. The need for new sick homes in Norway is enormous. Instead of spending 8.6 billion kroner on investment grants, we had built 14,700 new health homes in 2009. In the alternative budget of the Progress Party, we cut hugely on immigration, and much of the money we save, we use in new health homes and care homes. While the government boasts of seeing money for a total of 1,000 new health homes and care homes, the Progress Party has enough money for 2004 to provide new sick homes and 600 new care places. While the government sews cushions under the arms of every asylum seeker who comes to the country, the elderly and the sick stand in the hall with lua at hand. Let me therefore ask the Council of State the following questions: Why is it that every asylum seeker who comes to Norway automatically gets a place to live, while the elderly and the sick, who have paid taxes throughout their lives, have to wait for years for treatment they are entitled to?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e919	As far as the budgeting of the Progress Party is concerned in the area we are talking about here, it is totally unrealistic. Too short to give a picture of it: it is the case that the asylum seekers who have arrived this year do not agree with the Progress Party's wish to be gone; they will have to have their proceedings for the next year – to say it very simply. So it's going to be a completely fictitious budgeting. Then I must be allowed to say that I am very little impressed by the commitment of the Advancement Party to the care of the elderly. I have to say that for a party that can only spend billions of billions for all good purposes and this time well passes 30 billions of dollars, and which so little manages to give priority to care for the elderly, I think it is a debatable effort, assessed in relation to a government that is willing to create a budget that helps us to get lower interest rates and have a responsible framework, but within that budget find room to give priority to the elderly. I don't think it's those who have an attitude where you don't show humanity to the refugees and asylum seekers, who are the best people to take care of others who are weak in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e926	So the chord change is over. The meeting will now take a break, and the meeting will be resumed at 9 a.m. 3:30. The meeting was cancelled at 9.00 p.m. 12:17. The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. 3:30. President: Mr Eirin Faldet
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e939	The decision continues to deal with case No. 1 on agenda No 29. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e944	In 2005 we won red-green and important wins. We were given the confidence to replace the Bondevik government, because it went too far in breaking the Norwegian society's success formula that interaction is much better than competition in areas where it doesn't fit. The red-greens have delivered whether we are talking about babysitting, local economy or employment. We have increased the housing support so that it embraces wider and deeper. We include the funds for psychiatry in the transfers to the big cities. There will be more money for resource-intensive services. The red-green majority has achieved important goals, but we still have some challenges. People have different living conditions, and we can share even more fairly, especially in the capital. The question we have to ask ourselves is: if we don't manage to solve the challenges, who will solve them? At least not the political option we are facing. We Red-Green have a special responsibility to prevent a progress-partial government, especially in times of decline, because: It could be the ground for populist parties. They can only be combated by political will for action, good political communication and political progress. In times of recession, it is easy to call old solutions unreasonably biased to ‘crisis packages’, where needed, more evenly distributed. In times of decline, it is easy to call for the simple solutions. But what we need is strength and courage to carry through the long-term solutions. That's what the government adds up to. We feel confident that the Norwegian people want more of the Norwegian social-democratic model, with steady living conditions and interaction, not least in times of decline.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e965	I just have to admit that it does well to confirm that the municipal economy under the previous government, where the Right was involved, does not stand back for the municipal economy that has until now been led by the red-green government, and that despite all the black-painting and recurring results of starving the municipalities. Even in today's debate, I have observed that this myth lives on among the red-greens, despite the latest figures from the Technical Calculations Committee. I certainly don't think the new information comes surprisingly on Kommune-Norway. rapporteurs and local politicians have worn out this harvest as never before with a lack of budgetary balance and major challenges. In my home town, Skien, tomorrow and Friday the city council will make operating reductions of about 100 million. kr. ‘Schools lay down. Teaching positions must be removed. The care sector is stepped down. The child-rescue budget cracks to make it snap. The developer will have to draw new asphalt soon. And there are still black rabbits coming out of their hats." This is the situation described in Telemarksavisa on 15 November. For many red-green politicians around the country, the difficult situation has probably come as a shock – no wonder, as great expectations as the Government created when it took over after the Bondevik II government. Former Minister of State Åslaug Haga never allowed himself to hide his satisfaction over the first year's big bet. She thus stretched the bow of expectation high – too high, for now this municipal minister has to go out and extinguish fires and tranquillity, and there will be a crisis package. The challenges of the municipal sector are many, no matter what government we have. The many tasks of the local government sector are important today, and they will be equally important in the future. Because it concerns the safety, well-being and care of individuals, and it is about developing future good communities for the benefit of all those living in a municipality. When the City Council in Skien tomorrow will deal with its budget for 2009, I must say it had been a great advantage if the Government's crisis package, which has an impact on the municipal sector, had been published before the turn of the year, so that the municipalities per. today knew what would come, and could bake it into its budgets. It would provide much greater security and predictability than the fact that you now have to wait for uncertain numbers and then come back to a new situation in the New Year.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e983	The most important innovation in public administration is the digital one. It means that many of today's and future public services are digital, and thus open-ended and flexible for our citizens. They can use them whenever they want, without meeting up personally. There is also a great advantage for the public sector, because they do not manually scan or input numbers from different forms or other forms that the inhabitants submit. In this way, we release resources that can both be used to improve quality and to convert or streamline the public sector. In this year's government budget, there are many digital renewal measures, such as Altinn II, the development of electronic prescriptions and electronic object lighting. But perhaps the most important thing is the development of electronic ID, because it is the very purpose of etatars and municipalities themselves to develop new advanced electronic services, and so that etatars and municipalities themselves can participate in the digital renewal of Norway. I note that the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, with their cut in the DIFI budget, will break the line of this effort. Right, Progress Party and Left have submitted a proposal to dissociate and sell former State Consultant AS. But there is a great difference between former State Consultant AS and DIFI, both when it comes to tasks, organisation, addition and rental. The identification of former State Consultant AS and the restructuring of the remaining ones, such as, for example, will result in substantial conversion costs. Right hand, and the Progress Party is proposing. I note that the Right wants to screen DIFI's work on ICT, but it is unfortunately such that an attempt to dissociate old Statskonsult AS will lead to major delays and increase the risk of the ICT project, including. eID development. So to a great reform that has not been by way of observation either in comments or through posts in the hall, but on which I intend to use my last minute. Renewal of state building and property operations and the priority given by the Government to property management in prison with reform in 2009. There's a big lag in the maintenance of our prisons. By transferring responsibility for the maintenance of prison property to State Building, a criminal body will release them. They can do more of what they're good at, they can do more of what they're good at, they can do more of it, they can do more of it, they can do more of it, they can do more of it, they can do more of it, they can do more of it, they can do more of it, they can do more of it, they can do it, they can do it, they can do it, they can do it, they can do it, they can do it, they can do it, they can do it, they can do it, they can do it, they can do it, they can do it, they can do it, they can do it, they can do it, they can do it, they can do it, they can do it, they can do it, they can do it, they can do it, they can do it, they can do it can do it, they can do it, they can do it, they can do it can do it, they do it can do In this reform, there is also an increase of 105 million in means of maintenance. At the moment, we will see what the package of measures can bring about both that reform and other maintenance and build additional ones. The objective is better and more effective management of prison property, which will result in better conditions for those added, but not least for those deployed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e996	Prior to the municipal elections in 2005, the then municipal minister Haga promised at the direct public meeting that no municipalities would have to introduce property taxes. It would be enough money, it was her message. In retrospect, it has been shown that this important information to the municipalities was not entirely despicable, which many of us probably had a strong suspicion of even before the election. But promising people not to pay property taxes is one thing. Even worse, it is to promise people that the municipality they live in should not lack money to carry out tasks for the benefit of the citizens, for example. That there will be water in the pools in the schools. The municipalities are waiting and waiting, and as time passes, we are still reminded of the excellence of this government. All municipalities are referred to as receiving increased income, and of course without saying that this money is being eaten up by wage increases, interest rate increases, a high need for maintenance on municipal building masses and municipal roads. The red-greens refuse to see the writing on the wall after fair distribution and soothsaying, this script that so clearly shows that it is time to turn around. The 2009 state budget proposal that we are discussing was patched up in the run-up to the ever-increasing crisis we are in. And it doesn't seem that there's any will or ability to change, except for some cosmetic appropriations. The availability is already rising sharply, and I'm afraid we haven't seen more than ripples on the surface given what's coming. And the government sleeps, while it dreams of fair distribution and smoothing. This mantra is going to cost the municipalities expensive. It must feel particularly bad for all those who believed in the beautiful promises of Soria Moria and who are struggling with the community economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1010	The framework conditions adopted by the Stortinget are absolutely essential for the supply of our local politicians to their citizens. Despite the large growth in the municipal economy, the municipalities are still struggling to correct the famine that we had during the previous ageing period. That this was a starvation, there is no myth, as the representative Holmberg recently said. What would it have looked like in the municipalities today if this had continued into the growing period we are now in? I am also pleased and satisfied with the changes made to ensure that all the residents, wherever they live, get as much equal offers as possible. There have been many reports of different treatment of municipalities in the action zone in Nord-Troms and Finnmark. I understand that people get confused about what politicians really mean in this case. The Progress Party has for years been strong against the entire North Norway grant. The lot has repeatedly proposed the removal of the whole grant. They have justified this because such a grant counteracts a faster change in the pattern of residence, i.e. the late departure from the districts. If we had voted in favour of these proposals in the past, we would have had no North Norway grants to discuss today. I also record that these are attitudes that the Progress Party has brought with it into the Sørheim Committee. Nor does the right have a particularly brilliant story to point to in terms of local economy and cohesion from the time of its government. At the same time, in the last year’s treatment of the municipal proposition, all parties have recognised that there is a discrimination between municipalities in the operational zone. Despite this consensus, we can see in today's setting that the games are divided again. I see that there is a note from the government parties asking the department to follow closely the situation in the municipalities of the action zone in Nord-Troms. To me, it's not important what the instruments are called, but how they work. The North Troms municipalities need different instruments that can help stop relocation and stimulate relocation and economic activity. On the basis of the majority comment, I expect the government to start a review of the situation in North Troms and come back to the municipal proposition with thoughtful suggestions for improvements. I have the confidence of the government councillor Meltveit Kleppa that this will be her priority. I know that people in the North Troms are expecting a clarification on this important issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1027	Although the growth of municipalities in this period will be NOK 28.6 billion, the cost growth will be over 32 billion. That's why a lot of municipalities now run and cuts in the budgets – and I don't remember having experienced so many threats about school drop-outs. Wage growth and pension contributions account for a large proportion of the cost growth. When we also know that the growth of loans in municipalities has been high – and at a high interest rate – in recent years, we see strong expenditure growth for municipalities. The left is very concerned about the signals that are now coming from many municipalities and county municipalities about efficiency improvement in the school sector. This seems particularly to affect the teacher's density and thus the teaching, i.e. the quality of the education our children and young people receive during the school day and the school year. Unfortunately, many local governments around have not given priority to using the increased funds transferred from the country to the school sector. The municipal sector not only needs more hands, but it also needs more heads to teach our students at school. Good schools around the country — with higher teacher density than is the case in many places today — are crucial for, for example, schools which failed to pass the national tests both this year and last year shall have the possibility of raising the professional results of their respective schools. And then I'm going to get into another system that's also vital for us to be able to raise the level of knowledge in school, and that's that students and teachers at a lot of schools around the country now need to be able to secure a much, much better learning and working environment than what they unfortunately have today. We have a huge maintenance run at schools as well as at swimming facilities. A report from, among others: The Children's Ombudsman has shown that over 40 pst. of our schools have a school environment that violates students’ statutory rights to a good working environment — a law adopted by the Stortinget in 2003. I am therefore very pleased that the Government now wants to reintroduce the interest compensation scheme for the renovation and construction of new school buildings. This was a mechanism put in place by the Co-operation Board in 2002. In this context, I would like to say that we need to consider very carefully what will be most profitable in the long run – to patch in a completely worn-out school facility with the demands of the time for materials use and indoor climate, or whether it would be worthwhile to build new, healthy and environmentally friendly school buildings with today's demands for materials use and indoor climate. And then finally, I want to include the left wants to spend $13 million. kr more for Sami purposes in next year's budget than the Government adds – 2 million. NOK 3 million for the maintenance and continuation of traditional Sami industries. kr to ensure progress in the plans for a separate theatre building for Beaivváš, 3 million. kr for the planning of a Sami art museum in Karasjok, and last but not least 5 million. kr for the preparation of damaged Sámi textbooks adapted to the Sámi knowledge promise and for improved working conditions for Sámi textbooks authors.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1042	I have listened with interest to parts of the debate and I have been told that the opposition – and especially the two largest bourgeois parties – repeats it as the self-criticism of the red-green government, and that we are rose-painting the situation in Norwegian municipalities. I hear what they're saying, but it's not going to be particularly interesting for that reason. When we took over the government in 2005, we canceled the fiscal policy of the previous government. You can refer to Technical Calculation Committees or other papers, but if you ask Norwegian municipal politicians if they want to go back to the period 2001–2005, or if you want the developments that have taken place during this government to continue and reinforce, I am sure – had you done studies – that you had a noisy response – a clear answer. But that's it now. We never said it was going to be a nirvana overnight. It is a difficult shot to turn around, and I think it will take many years to fix the structural problem in the Norwegian municipal sector. It has been underfunded by variable governments over a long period of time, and it will take a long time to put in place a municipal income system that takes this into account. But that doesn't mean you can't be satisfied with the direction in which the municipal structure goes, and there the trend is very clear. So that's the way we've increased our income by approximately. 50 pst. more than in the previous grossing-up period. It's a significant rise. But that does not mean that we do not have schools that still fall apart, or that child protection and other important measures in the municipal sector have enough money. I certainly don't think they have that. This means, for example: Nor does it mean that nurses and caregivers still do not have to run very fast in order to reach the tasks that exist. Then at least we have to decide that the most important thing in the years to come is to continue the escalation of the community's resources and not step it down by giving tax relief: most to those who have the most from before. The two largest bourgeois parties – just a few brief comments on it: I see that the Progress Party proposes an increase of approximately. NOK 4.7 billion. It's okay, but it's, as one of the government councils said, NOK 4.7 billion of a total package of over 30 extra billion oil you put into the Norwegian economy. Then it is not particularly impressive that the most important welfare producer in our country will be satisfied with such a small amount of money when the tax credits are divided beyond round built to people in this country who, in my opinion, strictly do not need it. The second interesting point of the Progress Party's proposal is that the Right-wing Party has banned their entire economic policy. That means that the Right, which is on the Government's line in the area of municipal economics, has the same financial structure, and that's what we can base. When we then combine the wishes of the two parties for both government cooperation and extensive tax and tax relief, Norwegian municipal politicians from the previous period know what is being prioritised in front of the other. Then there will be dakapo: the starving of the municipalities and tax reliefs – mostly for those who have the most of them. We've tried this before. There is no reason to repeat that error again.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1057	There are a lot of issues in this debate we can talk about, but I want to spend my time on an important matter and a good action that deserves attention. In the 2009 government budget, the Government is proposing changes to the housing aid. This is an important change in social housing policy and in the fight against poverty. The conversion and strengthening of the housing support system will mean that as many as 50,000 more households will be able to receive housing support. What is particularly good is that among these, up to 10,000 more families with children can be secured. For many of those who have to turn the heads toward the end of the month, this might make everyday life a little bit more liberal. When the changes are fully phased in, the scheme is reinforced by NOK 1 billion. This is probably spent money, because it goes to those who labor the most. Already from next year, the appropriations for housing support will be increased by 300 million. kr. There are several changes that lower the threshold for receiving housing aid. The income limits have been raised and, as a general rule, housing support under the new scheme is low incomes and high housing costs. The rule that those who live alone must be secure to get housing support falls away. Also couples with no children or low income alone can now apply for help to cope with their housing costs, and the requirement for home banking funding is removed. Housing is a very targeted response to those who really need it. That is why it is joyous – and I am very proud – that many thousands more will be able to receive housing support in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1068	A good public sector is a pillar of a welfare society. It is then important to ensure that the municipalities, which are in the first place in terms of welfare production for the population, have a good enough economy to do the tasks. There is a mission that the Government is taking seriously. The real growth in the total income of the municipal sector is more than DKK 28 billion during this large-scale period. It has been absolutely vital for the municipality of Norway to see this growth coming. That doesn't mean, of course, that everything is very well, and that all the problems are out of the world. Municipalities still have large and important unsolved tasks. Not least the district municipalities, which are both to offer good services to the population and at the same time to stop the settlement, especially in relation to young people and especially young women. Then it's important to be clear that man doesn't just live by road, water and sewage, although this is important enough. Or in another way: if people are to live in the districts, even in small places, there must be room for both the material and the spiritual and cultural dimensions of life. Good schools, kindergartens, health and social services are important, but also cultural schools, sports and cultural and leisure services for adults. The representative of the Central Party, Anna Ceselie Brustad Moe, mentioned in his contribution earlier today the success of the young actors from Nesseby The BlackSheeps, who recently won the Nordic final of the Youth's Melodi Grand Prix. I can only join the representative Brustad Moe said. The youth in The BlackSheeps has shown how culture can help to give young people both security for their identity and pride over the place they come from. It's gotten cool to be from Nesseby. I am pleased that the Government has a very broad approach to its district and regional policies, and that the budgets of many departments focus on the daily, the immediate basic needs of people where they live, and what is about helping to raise a higher sky over people's lives. In conclusion, I want to point out a relationship that several representatives have been in here today. The provision of the regional grant to Nord-Norway is different for the municipalities in the action zone, which contributes to significantly smaller municipalities in Nord-Troms than in Finnmark. The majority of the committee from the government parties pointed out this difference and asked the government to take a closer look at this. In the 2009 budget statement, the same parties follow up the case. At the same time, I am surprised that the Progress Party, which until quite recently was in principle opposed to the regional grant to North Norway, is now suddenly in favour. I am pleased that the Government of the State budget for 2009 provides all the municipalities in the action zone that meet the criteria, small municipal grants at the highest rate, which benefits all the municipalities in Nord-Troms. Moreover, I would like to join the majority of the government party in which a request from the Government follows closely the situation of the North Troms municipalities, in order to find a satisfactory solution also with regard to the rate of the regional grant.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1081	Per-Willy Amundsen spoke in his speech that the Government ‘conducts an irresponsible asylum policy’ in his view. It's a statement I'm responding to. And I am tempted to ask Per-Willy Amundsen: what is ‘an irresponsible asylum policy’? Can it be, for example, be, as Per-Willy Amundsen has previously launched, to reject people with disabilities and illiterates, even if they need protection? Can it be, for example, is putting a roof on immigrants completely independent of what the world's picture of conflict looks like? Could it be to ignore that there are mainly civilians who are hit in war, and that there are women and children in particular who are forced to flee, and that therefore these need special protection? Could it be to express a desire to renegotiate international agreements that are just about protecting people on the run? At the top of it all, Amundsen once again brings out the old scare of the fact that the North is in danger of becoming a minority. Of course, it's something the Progress Party is constantly trying to do, just to try to scare people. That rhetoric is based on the fact that people who move here can never become Norwegian. So the message given to these is that no matter how much you try to integrate yourself, we will never accept you as Norwegian. Not only is it irresponsible, but it is also inhuman and reprehensible. I would also like to believe that it is uncomfortable for the Right to see that the Advance Party is going to demand that the Council of State in this field in any government cooperation between the two parties. I believe that the Right Party will require a guarantee that this intellect that Per-Willy Amundsen has previously foreshadowed will be put in a drawer and hidden there. This is such a serious topic that the Right can no longer push ahead with the need to negotiate policy when the election results are available. I therefore challenge the party right to be perfectly clear at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1090	When the red-green government took over in 2005, it was full of teachers resigning around the municipality of Norway. That's because the right-hand government clearly said, "It's probably teachers, we just need a reorganization." They said the municipalities got enough money. There was only a need for more efficiency and reorganisation. I am very pleased that this government has provided more funds from the very beginning, both by seeing and by acting, to the municipalities, because the public care that we are going to have is incredibly important for each individual citizen. But it takes time to close the holes after the municipal economy that has been before. Everything is not very well in our municipalities. But what this government promised was that the bottom was reached. The arrow was going to point up, and it did. I am pleased that this year's budget is a budget for School Norway. Lots of barley is going to be refurbished. We know that we have a lag in school buildings of about 40 to 70 billion dollars, and I'm incredibly happy that the Government and the Stortinge are going to prioritize building schools in the years to come. More people have come into the care of the elderly, and it is incredibly important. The government has received more equitable municipal grants. It is based on municipalities getting more money for public welfare and a fairer distribution. Much of the injustice is corrected, but yet there are things that are not as it should be. How can it be just that, for example, Alta will receive much more funding than that of the Kvänangen, a small municipality close to Alta? These municipalities are under the same action zone, the action zone in North Norway. It is such that the municipality of Kvænangen comes out significantly worse. I would like to refer to what Rolf Requam said in his statement, that they are asking that the discretionary grant be actively used to balance these differences. I would also like to refer to the observation made by the majority in the position that the Ministry is still being asked to follow closely the situation of the municipalities in the Nord-Troms action zone. I believe that in order to keep up with developments, it is important that the Government comes back to this challenge in the municipal proposition presented in 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1105	It sometimes turns me in this room that you speak for deaf ears. To Bendiks H. Arnesen: I just want to repeat that the latest figures from Technical Calculations indicate that the growth of the local economy has been about the same under this government as under the Bondevik II government, according to the November figures. So I think it's a little special that some representatives are standing here and tickling at the numbers that come from the Technical Calculation Committee. I mentioned in my previous post that Kommune-Norge is facing many challenges, and they are still going to. In 2008, municipalities have faced the situation that we have tripled the number of refugees and asylum seekers coming to the country. UDI is under pressure, and the municipalities as well. But I want to say that many municipalities are doing a huge job both in terms of housing and in terms of integration. My attention should now be focused primarily on asylum seekers who are being refused their applications and who will be returned to their country of origin. I have recently asked the Council of State a written question about this. In view of the large increase in the number of asylum seekers arriving in Norway now, and in the light of low rates of emigration, I asked what the Council of State will do to increase the number of emigrations and prevent rejected asylum seekers from going underground and becoming illegal here. I am sorry to say that the answer that came yesterday was not satisfactory. Nothing suggests concrete measures to increase the frequency of shipments in line with the increase in asylum seekers that we have had in 2008. The Council of State says in its reply that it is the Foreign Affairs Department of the Police that is responsible for the transports. Then I want to ask the Council of State exactly what he wants to do to increase the capacity of the PU. What new initiatives will the Council of State take to speed up the shipment process?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1116	First, commend the municipal minister Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa for a strong boost to the improvement of the housing support system in this state budget. It's a promise we've requested, and it's also in line with the proposal that the Right had in last year's state budget. I believe that it is really the great grip that has been made by this government in the area of housing, which will have a major impact on the fight against poverty in Norway. It is a targeted and good measure. It is a unanimous committee which states in the vote that a wish to have universal design criteria applied in the context of the interest-rate compensation scheme. We think that's right. It's important and forward-looking. However, it is also important to stress that the market does not have to perceive it in such a way that creating a lot of bureaucracy for those municipalities that have already come a long way in planning and have clear projects that they can start, because the critical situation of keeping people in work is too serious for a few postponements of projects to meet these criteria. So it has to apply to new projects that are started and planned now, not old, finished or almost completed projects. In the debate, there is a number that has been used. It has been said that during the previous government there was a decrease in the number of employees in the municipal sector of 3000. I have to ask the Council of State to explain how that figure has come up, because there's nothing in the documents I'm sitting on right now that could indicate that it's a correct number. If one looks at page 74 of the national budget, on the development of the number of employees in the local government sector, one will see that developments during the previous government showed an increase of 6 000 to 7 000 employees. If you look at the hourly work and the growth that has been explained there in the Technical Calculation Committee, it is quite obvious that during the previous government it was also a growth in the hourly works – not only under the current government, but also under the previous one. It is true that the number of hours worked has increased more during this government, but then one must also look at the changes in population and task changes. So if one corrects this, starting from the 2002 figures, as I've pointed out several times, the development of the local economy was 4.2 pst. in the previous period and 4,3 pst. under this government — there is a comparison between the two governments in terms of the total income of the local government sector. Then the Minister of Renewal was involved in building reform and changes in the construction activities of the State. I am pleased that the Government is following up the proposal in the State budget already in 2006 to do something about property issues related to criminal law. It is quite incredible, because that proposal is one of very many proposals for reform in construction and property activities, and the Government has spent three years implementing only one of the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1129	The representative, Arild Stokkan-Grande, was recently up on the pulpit and gave a very strong rule on the policy of the Progress Party – I kept saying – the demonized, false formulation of the policy of the Progress Party. As a matter of fact, he states that the policy of the Progress Party is inhumane and reprehensible, obviously because we want to tighten up particularly in the field of asylum. Once again, the Labour Party takes the same trick that is being taken on every occasion when these kinds of issues are being discussed, either in this room, or out in the Norwegian media: there are similarities between immigrants seeking asylum in Norway – asylum seekers – and refugees. The representative Stokkan-Grande knows very well that there are two very different things. It is fully possible to tighten up the asylum policy to Norway if we give residence to those who are actually persecuted, and not to all the others. If you're going to take the numbers from UDI seriously, it's just a place between 10 and 15 pst. of applicants for asylum to Norway today who fulfil the conditions of the Refugee Convention. There are dramatic other figures – we are talking about 1500 to 2000 instead of 15 000, which is the number of asylum applications we receive in Norway today. When the Progress Party says that today's immigration policy is irresponsible, it is not only because we are obviously in a situation where there is no control over the influx, but it is also because, as I said in my mind, and as I have no problem repeating, you do not see the long-term consequences of the immigration policy being pursued. I have to say on behalf of my own party and on behalf of myself, that I do not want a development where ethnic Northmen become a minority in their own country. I don't want a development where Oslo has a majority of people with immigrant background in 2029. If you think so, as I think the vast majority of the Norwegian population are doing, you have to take the consequences of it into account in immigration policy. One cannot rule in this field from year to year and on the basis of all good intentions if one does not see the long lines ahead and see the consequences it will have for Norwegian society – we are facing the dawning consequences of it already today, when freedom of expression is challenged, when equality and equivalency are challenged. When we have Muslim organisations in Norway that do not want to distance themselves from the death penalty for homosexuals, yes, we have a problem. That's what I challenge this hall to take over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1140	I will not use this debate to respond to the Per-Willy Amundsen statement on immigration policy. It will take much more time than a three-minute post, because the distance between the Progress Party and the rest of political Norway is so great that one must have his own debates for it. So I'll leave it in this round. There are two things I want to say: firstly, something has happened that is very good for Norwegian municipalities today, and for all municipal politicians and councillors who – whether they scratch their heads or tear their hair, I don't know – have felt a concern about the tax revenues in Kommune-Norway. But the Council of State said that the failure that had to come into tax revenue to next year will be compensated. I think that is the most important thing that has been said in this Chamber today for the municipalities. Then came the representative Hagebakken with an appeal to the opposition. It concerns proposal No. 3, which is about Karmøy and the loss of many jobs there. The proposal is that a request be made by the Government to make arrangements to avoid too many adverse effects of the notified shut-down of Hydros Søderberg plant on Karmøy. I understood the Hagebakken so that he wanted it to be sent to the Government. I understand that the government will commit itself to this serious situation that is at Karmøy and elsewhere in the country for jobs, and will come back with a complete scheme and take the situation at Karmøy and elsewhere seriously. Therefore, there is agreement in the opposition to turn the proposal into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1150	Bent Höie has had the word twice and gets the word for a short note, up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1153	It was good that I was able to come before the Council of State. A new issue is linked to the Minister of State. In a row in the financial debate, I took up the situation of municipal credit with the municipal minister. I then hoped for a quick solution, not least because that day it was sent out a press release that the government had found a solution for export finance, where it said that one would also find a solution for local government credit. Now it's 14 days ago. There is still no solution for local government credit. I see today that the representative in Kommunekreditt has sent a letter to the Prime Minister where they clearly say that it is now urgent to find a solution. They say, ‘In the last half of the year, a weakening of competition has only resulted in an increase in the interest expenditure of the municipalities of about 50 %. 200 MSEK’.» In other words, increased interest expenditure on public sector investment as a result of a weakening of competition in this sector is now three times as high as the Government’s 2009 interest compensation scheme proposal. It says something about the seriousness of this situation, and it's amazing that the government has found solutions for private banks, for export finance, while for the public sector they're still sleeping.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1167	Let me first just underline the meaning of municipal credit as an alternative institution. Competition in the municipal sector is needed. After all, it is easier for the Government to act in relation to the Municipal Bank, which has 80 pst. State ownership, other than Municipal Credit owned by Export Finance, and Export Finance again with 15 pst. State ownership. A process is currently in progress. I hope, like Bent Höie, that there will be a clarification quickly, but I can assure you that under the direction of Export Finance there is now a process going on – hopefully with a happy solution both for Municipal Credit and for the municipalities. Then I'd like to thank you for the good words when it comes to the bumps. It's going to be, I think, an invaluable significance for 50,000 new households that she's going to be in place on 1 July. I also believe that there are 15 000 new municipal rented dwellings in the budget, and 20 years of fixed interest in the House Bank is significant. So I just want to say that there's a lot of work going on in the housing social area. When it comes to people who come out of prison, more of them now get one home to go to. We're going to hand out a Friday prize for the best efforts for the homeless in the current year, and here are many qualified candidates. Let me also say when it's about district policy and the commitment that the government has to allow people to choose where they want to go, that it's actually inspiring to be able to read from the statistics that it's useful to focus on the possibilities in the districts. There are people living in communities, the municipalities and the regions that need to exploit them. But we have to go all the way back to the year 2000 to find a year where so many municipalities have had growth in the population, and that at a time when numbers are from the high economic cycle that we've now had. So finally, when it concerns the number of employees: 45,600 in increments in this period, corresponding to minus 3000 in the previous period, is taken from the Statistical Central Bureau – there are no figures that the Government has invented. And to Kari Lise Holmberg, with the danger of being pleasure-killing and easing the joy she expressed when it spelled out the municipal economy: 28.6 billion kroner in increase this period is without the cost growth that has found its place. I guess that's also because the municipalities have actually found room for 45,600 new additions and new tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1182	It is interesting to hear and sit and hear the part of the debate that is about the municipal policy approach. One has to be very creative to be able to present the previous ageing period as a good growth period in Kommune-Norway. Few in Municipality-Norway are familiar with it. I also record that some people are making it like the growth of the first state budget we made was a one-off amount, but it's actually that with that we raised the level. That amount has been granted every year later, and then the other money has been added. So the additions are after calculated price and cost growth, which is also important for integration policy, which was really the reason why I asked for the floor. The representative Kari Lise Holmberg has been rapporteur in the municipality of Skien. She was a little modest, so I can boast a little bit of Skien, a municipality that is a good example of a good integration policy, and that has taken its share of responsibility for housing, which is a broad consensus according to the attitude, that also applies to the new initiatives that are now taking place. So to the direct question of transportation. During 2008, due to increased arrivals, we have increased the appropriations for the Foreign Office of the Police, and even though the representative Holmberg was not satisfied with my reply yesterday, it is a reality that it is the Foreign Office of the Police that is responsible for transportation. They have therefore received an additional appropriation for this — an additional appropriation which will continue in 2009. In addition, more than in the past, attention is paid to border controls by the police as well. It is important, because much of the challenge of transporting is linked to ID doubts, one has to be sure who is to be transported when transporting by force. ID is at all one of the challenges in the foreign field, I agree with the representative Holmberg in. So I'm glad of what we've said about part of our 13 convergence points. It is about getting back agreements with other countries, and now the return agreement with Russia is also in place – it was in December. I would say that it is a positive contribution to being able to have more efficient transport, that we are now going to use fingerprints more frequently than before, as is suggested by the proposals we have made. This is not least the type of action we see when setting up the rapid procedure now taking place in Torshov, which will also obviously help to achieve a more rapid and effective transport through the rapid handling of a number of cases, and on that basis provides a faster conclusion, especially for those who do not have the basis for a stay. Finally, I would like to mention the closer cooperation established between the Police Aliens Unit and the UDI in relation to actions that the police have, for example. the much-mentioned Grünerleukka action. It was revealed that there were some people who were illegally staying here, so they were not asylum seekers. Closer cooperation between the UDI and the Police Aliens Unit provides a basis for faster deportation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1195	There are some myths that are quite vivid. One of these myths was served earlier in the debate by the representative Kongshaug, where he stressed that the basis for the welfare state and welfare community is the value creation that takes place in the private sector. What should be obvious to everyone is that the basis for the welfare state is what happens throughout the spectrum. All professionals in this country are involved in creating the welfare state of which we are proud. This also applies to the activity of the public sector — in higher education, in school and in health. Everyone working in these sectors is laying the foundation for the welfare society we have. Trying to draw a picture of and maintain the myth that only those who work in the private sector, who lay the foundation for the welfare community, are as wrong as it can be. The fact that the private sector is involved in creating a basis for imports is all right. But the welfare community is all of us involved in creating, everyone who is active. That message must also go to all women in the care and health professions; they are involved in creating the welfare society. Then I'm not going to compete for how good it was in the last period, and how good it is now. I think that kind of debate is quite hopeless. There's going to be something unreal about it. I think we can all agree that 2006 was a good year for the municipal sector. 2007 was a pretty good year. For 2008, we don't know right yet, but it'll probably look pretty good. We don't know much about 2009. If the assumptions contained in the budget, with tax revenue, etc., turn to 2009 is also likely to be reasonably good, reasonably good. I think that's a description most people will recognize themselves in. Then it's a little wasted discussing whether it was better in the previous period compared to this period. To the very end, the representative Per-Willy Amundsen: it is quite unpleasant to sit and hear the notion that ‘ethnic nordics’ will become minority. Who's an ethnic North Man in 2060? To the extent that he's alive, is that Per-Willy Amundsen? Are not those who came to Norway from another country, established, had children and grandchildren, as good ethnic Northmen as Per-Willy Amundsen and his descendants, if any, had to be? I wish we could end this so that we could have a fair and proper debate on immigration. So until the government lacks control of immigration: who is able to control the war in Iraq, which has resulted in increased immigration to Norway? It is Afghanistan and all the international conflicts that cause us to have more applications for Norway. That's what we have to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1211	With my intervention, I do not intend primarily to extend the debate by teasing political opponents into outlaws, but I do not overlook the fact that it may have that effect. Firstly, I fully agree with Bent Höie from the Right and the Maritime Minister of the Municipal Council on the importance of finding a solution for local government credit. I've heard numbers over 700 million. kr, which is what municipalities save on the fact that there are two credit institutions. It's a very big part. Closer to 75 pst. by the loan mass is linked to the two credit institutions. It's urgent, and we're all looking forward to a good solution in that way. Otherwise, I would say that those who have been here on behalf of the Right are some ephemeral checks, to use an expression that I think fits the situation now, versus earlier. I think the state of things is being presented under the previous government, very brilliantly. We admit that the situation is now demanding in many ways, but truly we are doing our part to make it better. Not least, it is important to remember that when our budget was presented, it was actually quite well received. I have talked to a great many rapporteurs who have expressed great enthusiasm that we are likely to take the redistribution measures that we did and that are pleased with the tailor-meal we have made with new and different grant schemes. We've done a lot, and now the Council of State guarantees the tax revenue next year. It's an important signal. At the same time, we know that interest rates are going down. It's an important contribution. Maybe the situation is a little bit brighter now than it seemed to be yesterday. The point is that the financial crisis has not exactly adapted to our budgetary processes. But we're able to react quickly, and we're doing things in order. The first thing we did was about interest. And we see the effect of that right now. I think the day we're going to look back at what we did together -- to say it like that -- when the financial crisis came, what we did then was smart. We promise well-being, and we guarantee people work. It's job number. 1st@item: inlistbox I look forward to a time that will be rewarding to the local government sector, where there will be a lot to enjoy. To use an expression that another red-green has used: it will shine a little, not only by the care of the elderly, but also by the municipal services. Because it won't hurt if it gets a little bit more refurbishment. We all know that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1224	The President has not heard the term ‘eplace check’ in the Chamber before. It's not on my file, but it might be added afterwards! Arild Stokkan-Grande has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1229	The Right and the Progressive Party, however, have a proposal which the majority do not want to vote down. That is proposal No. 14, which is investigating a language training programme for mother and children where the four-year control has revealed a lack of Norwegian knowledge. We have a system today in twelve municipalities where a follow-up is provided if there are shortcomings in language testing at the age of four. It is also closely related to the trial schemes we have had with free core time in kindergartens. We want to be open to improve the system and work on it. That is why it is unfortunate if we vote against it, and we will therefore ask the Right and the Progress Party to re-table the proposal for a transmission proposal. Then this debate can end in a friendly spirit.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1239	Per-Willy Amundsen has also spoken twice before and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1242	It's great to be able to agree on some proposals across the boundaries of the lot. The Progress Party has no problem making this proposal a transmission proposal; we welcome it on the contrary if it can proceed in the matter. So I would like to comment quickly on Rikham's posts now finally, where he obviously finds it unpleasant to use the term "ethnic nords". It's a completely relevant and correct concept. There is no problem in using such a concept. When we focus on it, it is not necessarily in relation to the concept as such, but because of the fundamental changes we are facing in Norwegian society as a result of irresponsible immigration policy. This policy leads to a change in this society, and it is irreversible. Unfortunately, I noticed that neither the representative Rekovam is willing to take it in.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1250	Kari Lise Holmberg has also had the word twice before and gets the word to a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1253	It's probably not like Tore Hagebakken has provoked me. I just want to say in an eloquent way that I understand very well what challenges the government is now facing in relation to the local economy. In the same tone, I would like to explain that during the Bondevik II administration there was also something like the financial market and skyrocketing pension costs for the municipal sector. It will be difficult for any government to deal with. Now I hope I haven't provoked the Hage Hill. Finally, I would just like to say that we on the Right agree that the proposals referred to here should be submitted, but this must apply to both No. 12 and No 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1264	Let me just comment on two geographical areas that have been listed here by several. The only thing is Karmøy and North Rogaland and the situation they can be facing there. There is a specific proposal, and I think it is very good if it is sent to the Government. I can only acknowledge from the Government's side that of course we follow closely the situation there and know that there may be a need to react. We may also have to anticipate that the financial crisis may mean that more vulnerable communities will have to be taken care of. Then to the North Drums. Our starting point is that, in time, the action area was created with actions against businesses and individuals. When it comes to the local economy, various proposals have been made, from the Borge Committee, from the Sørheim Committee, and other proposals that have been discussed. In the income system presented by the Government, we propose to continue the North Norway bill. It has different bets for Nordland, Troms and Finnmark. So I'm just going to stress that I'm going to follow closely the situation of the municipalities in the North Troms. I know that some of them have that demanding. I know that small community initiatives will help. There is also a claim that the municipalities of Nord-Troms have too little part in the funds available to the county councils as regional development actors. I'll check out both that and other aspects in line with the call in the comment from the committee. So I'll just say in the end that I'm humble to the situation that a lot of people now have. There is no doubt that there is a very demanding treatment in many municipalities, both as a result of the activity growth that is now in 2008 – and for which we have been happy – and as a result of other conditions. I'll have a meeting with KS tomorrow and see what suggestions we can make when it comes to the package of measures. So we're going to get back to the dimensioning. What gives me the most today is, in fact, the common commitment that is in this room for the municipalities to carry out important welfare tasks and to have funds in accordance with it. Promises good for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1275	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1294]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1291	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1300	The Municipal Committee has examined a proposal from the Landfill Representatives Trine Skei Grande, Vera Lysklätt and André N. Skkelstad on start-up loans and housing policy. The Committee agrees with the proposers that having a place of residence is essential for the functioning of today’s society. Housing is one of the foundations of the Norwegian welfare model. During the spring of 2008, reports from the National Audit Office and the NIBR show that public measures to obtain and maintain housing do not work properly. A broad majority of the Committee therefore considers that new measures in housing policy are needed. An overall committee agrees with the proposers that it may be appropriate to extend the maximum repayment period for start-up loans from 20 to 30 years. This will make it easier for people with low incomes who have start-up loans to be able to operate the loans. The amount of the monthly instalments goes down. It is positive that also government council Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa in her letter of reply to the committee says that increased amortisation time for start-up loans may be a topical measure, along with, among other things. increased bumper ceilings in the housing support scheme. According to the Riksrevision and NIBR, the rules for housing support, start-up loans and housing grants in the House Bank are too complicated, too targeted and too poorly coordinated. In addition, the State Council of Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, following its meeting with various actors in the housing sector on 25 November 2008, stated that ‘start-up loans are a well-kept secret’. In order for more people to gain access to start-up loans, an overall opposition suggests that one or more attempts be made to allow more actors than municipalities to manage start-up loans or parts of the scheme on behalf of the Husbank for a limited period of time. There is a tendency that people who have the finances to serve monthly housing costs in rented dwellings are struggling to travel to the deposit. Therefore, a broad majority of the Committee, consisting of the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, believes that it should be opened up to assess whether start-up loans can also be granted to people who are going to use the money for deposit. The proposers want the Government to submit proposals for a Norwegian model of the English model ‘Shared ownership’ or ‘home purchase’, where a share of ownership can gradually be accumulated through a down payment or payment in a initially rented dwelling, and where the State contributes targeted instruments through the Husbank or municipalities. The Norwegian housing market differs in many ways from English, and it is therefore not possible to transfer models developed for an English context directly to Norway. It is therefore positive that the NIBR on behalf of the Husbank should look at the English experience during the spring of 2009 in order to allow the Government to assess a ‘home purchase’ model in the light of the NIBR report, which the Left representatives also proposed. Municipalities have an obligation to provide housing for those who are not themselves able to obtain housing or housing. The proposers want the Government to investigate how this obligation can be strengthened. The Council of State's response shows that work is now in progress on harmonising today's social service law and municipal health service law to a new common law, one of which has also been related to other legislation. The question of whether the local authorities' obligation to provide disadvantaged housing will continue or be reinforced will be included in this work. Whereas it may be necessary to strengthen the obligations of local authorities to provide disadvantaged housing and whereas the Committee considers that the proposal to carry out this task is well complied with in the ongoing work; The proposers wish to ask the Government to submit proposals for the tightening up of the Social Services Act in view of the possibility for municipalities to sell municipal housing. The letter of reply from the Council of State states that the Social Services Act is «a little suitable» to strengthen the municipality's obligation to provide and dispose of housing, as it does not regulate the sale and purchase of housing by the municipality. Therefore, the Committee does not support V in the draft representative. Several measures are needed to increase the total number of municipally disposed of dwellings. This may include, inter alia: is made by setting requirements for municipalities for the net growth of dwellings in the allocation of housing allowances to rental dwellings. Finally, I would recommend the setting and record proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1326	The representative, Bjørg Tørresdal, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1329	Housing, together with work, education, health and care, is one of the cornerstones of our welfare society. How we treat the people who hang in a thread shows what kind of society we really have, what values are at the bottom, and how we cope with the fundamental interactions of society. It is therefore very interesting to read the project report on homeless people in Norway in 2005. It shows that we have 5,500 homeless people, which is less than in 1996, but 300 more than in 2003. Most of the homeless live in the big cities, but we see that there is an increase in the number of homeless people in some of the smaller cities as well. For the individual it is to be homeless seriously in itself, no matter where in the country it is. For local politicians, increasing homelessness should be a political warning. The homeless are often young, more men than women, and relatives, friends and acquaintances often present themselves to them. For some, homelessness is also a recurring problem, many have complex problems, some are addicted to drug use, and increasingly there are psychological problems. It's always hard to say what comes first of this, but seriously it is, and the pattern is clear. In view of this, it is very important and right that the Government and the Council of State take such initiatives as we have seen here and before. The changes in housing support schemes will be able to solve some of the problems we see with housing unemployment. The scheme is expected to allow more people to move from municipal housing to owner-occupied dwellings. This actually frees more municipal housing, and people in line can enter the municipal housing and get a place to live. It is a strong and proper step by the Government to change the housing support system. But this won't be enough. For this reason, everyone outside the Progress Party believes that new measures are needed in housing policy. The majority believe that it may be appropriate to extend the maximum repayment period for start-up loans from 20 to 30 years, and this, as the Council of State writes in its letter to the Stortinget, can be a topical measure, together with, among other things. increased bumper ceilings in the housing support scheme. Since homelessness is often part of a complex problem, it is important to understand that we have stopped the inclusion of the earmarked grants for psychiatry in the major cities and that new measures have been announced in the care of drug users. NIBR is re-monitoring the homeless in Norway. The homeless and their families and acquaintances can be sure that there are many who are closely monitoring their situation and who will try to find a set of tools that work to ensure that they can find a safe and healthy place to live. In proposal No, the opposition: 1 outlined a pilot project for the management of start-up loans. We can support this if it is turned into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1344	I am somewhat surprised that the last speakers referred to the fact that the Progress Party does not want new measures in this sector. And just after she had said that, she said that she could support proposal No. 1 – which is just from the Progress Party, and which refers to new measures – if it was turned into a transmission proposal. I would ask the representative to read the setting before she makes such bombastic accusations. The Progress Party agrees with the proposers that having a place to live is essential for the functioning of today’s society. Housing is one of the foundations of Norwegian welfare policy. Reports from the National Audit Office and the NIBR show that the public measures to obtain and maintain housing do not function properly. There is a need for new measures in housing policy. This may include, inter alia: it is relevant to extend the maximum repayment period for start-up loans from 20 to 30 years, which the Progress Party considers to be very important. This can be a good measure, and it will make it easier for people with low incomes who have start-up loans to operate their loans. Furthermore, this will result in more people being able to control, as the monthly instalments are reduced. Following its meeting with various actors in the housing sector, the Council of State concluded that ‘start-up loans are a well-kept secret’. There's a concession in that statement. In order for more people to have access to start-up loans, it is necessary to open up an experiment in which several actors are allowed to compete with municipalities to manage the start-up loan on behalf of the Husbank. Start-up loans are often not enough for first-time start-ups on the housing market. It is also often dependent on additional loans from other lenders. On the websites of many municipalities, it says – and this is probably to sell the loans: up to 100 pst. of the sum of the loans, no equity or suretyship claims and no upper age limits. But as usual when it seems to be too good to be true, it's usually that. Why do the municipalities write this on their websites? Is it to trick someone? Is it to give the impression that the offer is better than it is? I think the Council of State should look at this. The Progress Party also believes that the main problem in the Norwegian housing market is that the supply side of the market is not functioning well enough and that the high housing prices in Norway are largely due to conscious political choices. The Progress Party believes that housing support is a good arrangement and is pleased that it has increased its budget line. We are also going in to remove both the requirements related to the minimum standard for housing of 40 m2, the requirement for our own, separate kitchen and bedroom, and the requirement relating to mortgage loans for pensioners. These are measures which the Progress Party considers to be good, and we think this matter is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1366	First, I want to praise the Left for taking many exciting and important housing initiatives. One of them we are dealing with today, and what one sees, is that there is widespread support for much of the thinking behind the proposal. In the autumn, we have had a growing discussion about housing policy, one of which has also had different forms of action and views. Now one is in a situation where one sees that housing prices tend to flatten out or fall. In recent years, there has been a very strong focus on the rise in housing prices and a problem for new entrants. I think that now when someone experiences that someone might get a fall in housing prices, they will discover that there is only one thing worse for new entrants than rising housing prices, and there are falling housing prices. Because with falling housing prices, it is not possible for very many new entrants to get their home financed through bank loans. Therefore, it is also very important to bear in mind that a housing policy must be based on a functioning housing market. There has been quite a broad political consensus in Norway that it is a goal that Norway should, as far as possible, own its own home. I hope no one has any thoughts about leaving that goal, even if one looks like some playoffs, especially from the Socialist Left Party, which may indicate that one is going in the direction of believing that a larger part of the inhabitants of Norway are going to rent an apartment instead of owning a dwelling. I think that would be wrong, not least because it would mean that those who, with perhaps a little help, could enter the housing market remain in the rental market, and thus in reality are trapped in a poverty trap where they are not allowed to participate in economic development in the same way as those in the housing market. I believe it is a strength for Norway that we stand out in Europe by having a high proportion of the population who own their own housing, and thus have a security related to property also in difficult situations. This is why, for example: Very wrong to imagine that one should turn the support system away from supporting those who need help in the housing market to more support the dwelling or apartment. If you do that, you can risk people who initially get into a home with low rent, but who get a better financial situation, don't see themselves able to move on, for example. to the private market or into a self-catering apartment. Then one will experience that these will again be caught in some form of poverty trap, that the queues to get into these schemes will only grow and grow, and that an increasing proportion will need municipally owned apartments and dwellings. It's a misguided policy. Policies must be designed to support those in need of housing rather than housing. The dwelling is doing fine on its own. The second is the idea of market regulation and, in particular, market regulation relating to rentals. It seems that the political memory is quite short, and that one does not have the experience that one had last one had this type of regulation. First, it led to a large lack of housing by the fact that private interests did not see reason to build rentals or apartments – which in turn increased the number of house-holdings. Secondly, it led to poor standards both on the dwellings that were built, because there was no interest in maintaining them, and to poor standards on those that were built, because one had to build as cheap as possible. It led to a poverty trap for those living there and, not least, led to a black economy linked to the trading of leases. It's a way to go that, although I've seen the results of the Socialist Left Party and the Labour Party in Oslo, that these may be ideas, I hope are ideas that remain ideas, and not become real politics. I have also seen the results from both the Senterpartiet and SV that one believes it would be beneficial to increase the house tax in Norway and to remove the interest deduction on loans. Both of these measures will also conflict with the objective of people owning their own housing and with a social housing policy that has been widely agreed in Norway to date.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1383	The National Audit Office and the Norwegian Institute of Urban and Regional Research have shown that many of those who need it most fall outside housing support schemes, start-up loans and housing grants. The rules on housing support, start-up loans and housing grants in the House Bank are too complicated, too under-targeted and too under-coordinated. One example is that many servers are too small or have too much debt to get start-up loans, but serve too much to get housing support. Having a place to live is fundamental to being able to function in today's society, and housing is one of the foundations of Norwegian welfare policy. The disadvantaged on the housing market are persons who rely on assistance and support to establish and maintain a suitable dwelling. This is a complex group covering both persons in need of close follow-up in order to be able to live and persons who have mainly financial problems with the housing market. It will always be that someone from time to time ends up in poor income and poverty situations. The management of poverty by society rests on how to return to a reasonable income situation. Especially for those who have had problems at an early stage of life, it will be essential to have an owner-occupied dwelling under as stable conditions as possible. Many drug users have difficulty finding housing in drug-free settings after staying at a detoxification facility or housing. Without a fixed address, it is very difficult to get a job and get on with it. In order to get a start-up loan, it is essential that you have control capability, which is something that many people do not have. 70 pst. of any refusal to grant an initial loan is due to a lack of ability to pay. Therefore, the revenues generated by the municipality when assessing their performance are very central to large groups of disadvantaged people. There are large differences in what is included in the calculation basis. In addition, NIBR’s study shows that many start-up loans are not realised because people who have been granted start-up loans are unable to find a suitable dwelling and therefore the loan is not paid out. We are therefore particularly concerned about making changes to the start-up loan scheme, while at the same time changing and extending housing support. NIBR points out in its report that extending the amortisation period from 20 to 30 years, combined with changes in housing support, could be an effective tool for helping more people to live on their own. It is gratifying that a large majority of the Committee supports our proposal and that the Council of State in the context of the debate on Document No. 8:100 for 2007–08, preventing the number of young debt slaves, said she wanted to assess this. It is also necessary to follow up local authorities in order to ensure that there is as much equal practice as possible as regards the revenue underpinning the allocation and operation of start-up loans. In addition, the initial loan needs to be made more widely known. As the Council of State itself says, ‘start-up loans are a well-kept secret’ is too many. We therefore believe that competition for the management of the start-up loan can help more people gain access to it. Unless otherwise, as we suggest, we can start with a limited trial, where two housing companies and the municipality get to compete. Unfortunately, we hear too often that it takes time and seems bureaucratic for those applying for a start-up loan in their municipality. When it seems more daunting than attractive to get help, we have to look at how we meet those who need support. In addition, several municipalities need to develop a housing social action plan and access to reasonable housing needs to be increased. In recent years, a large number of small and medium-sized apartments have been built and traded within the housing model. These have often been referred to as low-deposit dwellings, while they are, in reality, dwellings with very high costs over time. We therefore see a need to develop several models of reasonable housing aimed at people with low control or reduced living capacity, where the state and the municipalities are involved in taking a slightly larger part of the cake and see the benefit of a stable housing situation as a prevention measure itself. In the case of a Norwegian ‘home purchase’ model, we do not want a blue copy of the English model. We are calling for several alternatives to so-called low-deposit housing, which, unfortunately, have become a dwelling with a debt that they cannot serve over time. Then we have done both them and us a bear service. On behalf of the Left, I take up the proposal contained in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1409	The representative Vera Lightcloth has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1412	Let me first comment on the proposals here dealing with the need for interaction between the tools we have in housing policy and for starting loans. Both of these reports, i.e. the National Audit Office's report and the NIBR's report, have been of great benefit to the Government's work this year. There are some that remind me of quotation. I announced a year ago that I wanted to tackle and promote a more social housing policy. Obviously, these two reports, which showed how necessary it was to look at better interactions, have been helpful. It appears in the 2009 state budget. The support is the most important action to improve interaction. That is why we have put forward a proposal that is agreed today, on a significant strengthening of the trunk. It is probably possible that I was well aware when I established that the initial loan was a well-kept secret. Fortunately, many people know about the scheme. Choose 400 municipalities take up initial loans and borrow further. But I have registered that there are municipalities who know little about how to use the initial loan. Especially at this point, when many people need to refinance their loans, there is a possibility, and also to be able to play these instruments together, i.e. housing supplements, start-up loans and building support. I have today received a reminder of this, I have seen, in the configuration of the committee. I can tell you that I have received a recording from some people who are working on the initial loan outside, and that they think they are helpful in some municipalities as they are. And then I'm going to follow up, as I've written, when it concerns the possibilities for further use of starting loans. Let me also mention that I have now written my own letter to the municipalities and made them aware of what the initial loan can be used for at this time. So the experience in English is related to their home purchase scheme. That's where NIBR has a mission. They're going to look at the English experience in the spring. Then we will consider any new measures, but it is clear that the English and Norwegian housing sectors are different, as mentioned in my letter of reply to the committee. When it comes to municipalities and their obligations, it is answered in a very comprehensive letter to the committee, and also briefed on by the case-speaker. Let me just underline to Stortinget that there is a new gift in many municipalities when it concerns the most difficult people in the housing market. A good half of the municipalities have now developed a new housing social plan. Of course, everyone should. KS and the Department have signed an agreement and commitment to a stronger social commitment. For this reason, some municipalities have increased their own efforts. Others do it because they clearly see the need. And then I find reason to remind you of the possibility in the House Bank to combine multiple homes for so-called hard-to-use people, who are different groups, with a universal design and low energy use. My cooperation with the municipalities this year has led to a dedicated conference with new recordings and strong commitment. I also enjoyed meeting KS’s metropolitan network at regular intervals and getting involved in their experiences.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1429	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1433	As I mentioned in my post, there have been some issues of housing policy from the government parties this fall. In summary, there has been a risk of increasing the housing tax, removing the interest deduction on loans and regulating rental prices. There have been playbacks from both the Center Party, SV and the Workers' Party in these directions. My question to the Council of State is therefore quite simple: can the Council of State guarantee that these three elements will not be part of the Government's housing policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1440	The government's housing policy is provided by the government budget, including both tax alignment and no proposals relating to interest-rate deductions. So I'm going to say that it's important at any time to be open to discuss what action it is that works, both to secure everyone's home and when it concerns the rental market. I have expressed an open fixture to various suggestions, including what SV has now come with, but I have said that it is not as simple as they make it. We must not risk making proposals which may mean that there will be fewer and no more rentals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1447	The Council of State said in its statement that she was interested in making the start-up loan more accessible. It will be supported by the entire committee. It's a good system, which we have to make full use of. When it has not been available, it is important to take action to ensure that more people are able to use the scheme. Therefore, an overall opposition has proposed in the setting that one should initiate an experiment for a time-limited period during which others may manage start-up loans on behalf of the Husbanken. So the representative Yrvin from the government parties said they want to support the proposal if it was converted into a transmission proposal. Then my obvious question to the Council of State is: what is the Council's view of such a pilot scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1454	Let me first say about the availability of start-up loans: the House Bank has received a clear message to be able to do this even more and to set up its arrangements so that the start-up loan becomes even more available, and also to make suggestions to the Ministry if it should prove that there are barriers that we are not aware of. Then to the proposal. Yes, I am open to take a closer look at this because I know that in some municipalities there is a long time to process it. But there'll probably be legal considerations here that have to be made before any one of them can go into that experiment. That's what I'm going to follow up and look at. So for my part: please send the suggestion above. We need to evaluate it more closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1461	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1466	For the sake of order: the word ‘eplacec check’ has been mentioned here today – and there would be no one. So to Ib Thomsen: I quoted directly from the vote, where it says that the majority of the committee – all except the Progress Party – believes there is a need for new measures in housing policy. So these weren't my words, they were referenced from the setting. The most important thing is that the Progress Party supports the transmission of the initial loan proposal. It was a good initiative in this matter, and it all looks pretty bright.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1473	I'll just briefly say that the entire opposition agrees to submit proposal No. 1, especially after we got positive insurance from the Council of State. I think it's wise to start trying this kind of thing so that you can start borrowing even more in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1478	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1306]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1494	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given following submissions by the main speakers of the parties and five lines of response by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1503	This issue has a theme that we have for many weeks and months fabric and rubbed on both in the media and in the committee – at all in our work. This is due to the fact that Norway has experienced a relatively large increase in asylum arrivals in the last year. The problem is not that we get a high number of asylum seekers. The problem arises if a large proportion of this number are asylum seekers who do not need protection. Unfortunately, we see that in today's situation. Before the government action package was launched, we were in a situation there about 60 pst. by those who came here and applied for protection, did not need it. Therefore, there was a broad and almost full political consensus that action was needed to reduce the proportion of those who do not need protection. But, of course, it's natural that when you start discussing each measure, there's disagreement. Firstly, it is important to approach this situation, to establish that the international agreements concluded by Norway and the humanitarian commitments we have underpin all the measures we propose. Secondly, it is important that we do not panic in such a situation, which I believe some parties at Stortinget have received. There is a need to take action, but we must not end up in a situation where we are in danger of rejecting people who actually need protection. I see that there is relatively broad political agreement on that. The majority in this case is of the opinion that the Government’s package of measures is most appropriate for meeting the current situation. We therefore do not want to support the points in the proposal from the Right in this matter. Several of the points proposed have already been discussed in the context of the review of the new law on discharge here in Stortinget last spring. Furthermore, other issues have already been addressed through the Government’s action package, which is also being implemented. That is why we are of the opinion that the Right's proposals seem superfluous.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1514	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1517	The so-called 13 measures notified by the Government, which are now partly at the hearing, and which we hope will be dealt with in the Grand Duchy next year, should already have given a clear signal – at least if you were to take the Government’s statement seriously – and should have led to a fall in the number of asylum applications from month to month. On the contrary, statistics show that it has not happened. We are still expected to get 15 000 asylum seekers to Norway this year, and so we're adding the same up to next year. Does the Workers' Party not see that there is clearly a need to tighten up further? For it is quite clear, at least from the point of view of the Progress Party, that the measures notified do not meet the problem at all adequately.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1524	It is not new that the number of asylum arrivals is fluctuating. We have had similar situations before, and the situation we experience this year is no new situation. When the Government's package of measures was launched, we immediately saw a stagnation in the number of arrivals. Then a further decrease is expected as the measures are implemented. That's where the government works. Many of the proposals have already been consulted. Some of the measures are under preparation and new measures will be taken. What is important, however, is that we can never approach the track of the Progress Party, which is about renegotiating international agreements that we have concluded and which are about rejecting people who actually need protection. There I feel that there is a fundamental distinction between all parties on the Stortinget and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1531	The right will introduce a notification obligation regime for asylum seekers who do not live on reception and for asylum seekers who have been refused their applications and who are waiting for them to be sent. The Council of State does not support the proposal, he writes in his letter to the Committee. However, he admits that the Foreign Affairs Act provides the basis for the obligation to notify and to impose a specific place of residence if necessary. If this is not sufficient, arrest and imprisonment may be relevant, writes the Council of State. So the possibilities are there, but the Council of State believes that there will be no appropriate use of resources, despite the large number of asylum seekers with refusals who are always waiting for emigration, or who go underground to avoid being sent out of the country. People's security has to give up in the interests of bureaucracy. How can the Workers' Party defend that the Government will not do anything in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1538	It is correct, as Mr. Kari Lise Holmberg here points out, that the answer from the Council of State states that there is already an authority to impose a notification obligation and to impose a specific place of residence when deemed necessary. At the same time, it's important to have a system that's manageable. It's about the resources you have to actually test such a reporting obligation. There are a number of questions that need to be resolved before such a system can be established. Among other things, it also raises questions in relation to our international obligations. I am of the opinion that we should be cautious about such measures, because, eager to reduce the number of arrivals, we may be at risk of implementing a policy that would be disproportionate to the individual. I hope that the Right also says that the measures we at least agree on should be safe and sound within our international obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1543	In the autumn, we saw that the Government presented a series of intensive measures in relation to asylum policy and justified them on the grounds that there was a large increase in the number of unfounded applications, i.e. people who did not need protection in Norway. As far as measures are concerned, those measures are supported by the Christian People's Party, for example. expeditious procedure and rapid return for those who have unfounded applications. There are a number of measures we seem sensible to implement. However, we cannot understand the reason why there are many unwarranted applications when you tighten up on children between 15 and 18 years of age, who get a temporary stay waiting to be sent out. The tightening up of children is incomprehensible, and the tightening up of family reunification for refugees is incomprehensible, because the reason for this must be dependability, not unwarranted applications. Does the representative see the need to have a different reason for these restrictions?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1550	I disagree with the approach Bjørg Tørresdal has to the issue. We're all concerned that children who need protection will get it. This has been complied with in the proposal for a new foreign law adopted in spring. Then I would like to remind the representative Bjørg Tørresdal that when the Christian People's Party itself was in government not very long ago, people in torch went for a more humane way of treating just lonely minors. So there must Bjørg Tørresdal clean up in your own house first. So I disagree that this is a narrowing to those who are between 15 and 18 years old. We're talking about young people who don't need protection, but who we leave here anyway, because we can't find caregivers for them. But it's like at the moment they're adults, we no longer have any international obligations to take care of them. But we want them to be here in the phase up to 18 years. They shall not risk being sent out during that period.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1557	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1561	It is clear that the need for tightening up of Norwegian asylum policy is very much present. When it is seen that the 13 so-called tightening proposals to the Government do not seem to have given any signal effect that has reduced asylum immigration to Norway, it is reasonably obvious that we need to go further in tightening up Norwegian asylum policy – if we do not think it is right that we should receive 15 000 asylum seekers every year. So it's not like some people are trying to represent it as, that this is about human dignity and taking care of people who are on the run. That's not what's at all the starting point. The problem is that by far the vast majority of those who come to Norway and seek asylum are happier. They're happier in the sense that they have obvious reasons to search for the free world, because it's good to live here. It's an economically good relationship. However, by far most people do not have a protection basis when applying for Norway. It is very well illustrated by the statistics provided by the UDI. There we see that 60 pst. rejected by asylum seekers, even with today's naive and cunning asylum policy. 10-15 pst. receive refugee status under the Refugee Convention, and even within what the Progress Party considers to be a relatively liberal code. We do not therefore discuss human dignity. We are not discussing – and it is very clear from the comments in the vote that the Progress Party has also stood behind – whether we should give residence to people who are actually persecuted. But we are discussing how we can prevent the institution of asylum from still being undermined by people who abuse it in order to get to the free world – without having a claim to protection of any kind. It is absolutely right that there should be more proposals, because the 13 proposals from the Government have already failed – they do not work. The signals have not been sent to those countries that send the largest number of asylum seekers to Norway. In this way, it is commendable that the Right has several tightening suggestions. Of course, the Progress Party believes that the Right does not go far enough. Perhaps at least one of the proposals from the Government is better than what the Right here has proposed. But that's good. And it is good that the Progress Party and the Right agree that it must be tightened up in Norwegian asylum policy. But you have to go a lot further. This is why the Progress Party, in its comments, refers to its alternative foreign law, which would have cleared up this field – given protection to people who are actually persecuted, who need a place of refuge, who need protection, but not to all of these others who abuse the institution of asylum, and who then bring a large-scale family to Norway. This is the real challenge of Norwegian immigration policy. There is no problem in settling 1 000–1,500 refugees in Norway — the problem is all of these others, who, of course, have strong incentives to abuse Norwegian asylum policy. Therefore, it was hoped that the Government and government parties might meet this issue with further action. I don't see you do that. On the contrary, it is clear that 15 000 asylum seekers will be arriving in Norway next year. And unfortunately, it doesn't seem that this curve will sink – as long as you don't come with new grips. The only thing that can clean up the absolutely necessary need for tightening up Norwegian asylum policy is the people. And that's what happens next September, when this government leaves the government offices and we have an alternative that can get settled and order in Norwegian asylum policy again.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1574	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1577	I will refrain from commenting on the post – I disagree that it will take much more than a reply minute. But I'll read a little bit from frp.no. \t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Brokening and expulsion shall be possible with the expected country of origin, country of origin or with another country in the region to which the foreigner is presumed to be culturally related. Thus, with the Foreign Affairs Act of the Advance Party, you will no longer be dependent on having return agreements with each country Norway receives foreigners from. In addition, FrP wants to conclude return agreements with a number of countries at the same time, and wants to link them to the general aid policy. It may turn out to be ‘good store’ to pay some countries for good return agreements.’ Then I ask the question, what is a payment? What is the price to pay to allow a person to return to a country that does not belong in? And what does the Progress Party mean by ‘good store’?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1587	It is good to record that the Christian People's Party strongly disagrees with our immigration policy. Something else had worried me, with the signals the Christian People's Party has managed to join this room for the last three years. I am so pleased that the representative Tørresdal reads our web pages. She should perhaps read more of them, because it makes a lot of sense there. With regard to the proposal to which the representative refers, it is quite correct that one of the things we are opening up in our alternative foreign law is to look at the aid policy in the context of return agreements. We spend huge amounts each year within the aid budget, and I don't think it would be unnatural – that is, the policy of the Progress Party – to see it in the context of getting returned people who have not legally stayed here and who have come to Norway through abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1596	We need to discuss immigration in order for the Progress Party also to have an aid policy. I will not refer from the website of the Progress Party, sail if I want to ask if the representative is even reading international news. My question to the representative Amundsen is whether he at all thinks it is possible to do so after, for example. international wars may affect the number of refugees arriving in Norway. The party of progress was the only party in this Chamber that supported the invasion of Iraq, but it is the only party that sees with great amazement that refugees from that country come when there is war there. So I wonder if there is any understanding at all in the Progress Party that there is a certain connection between international political events and the number of asylum seekers in Norway, or if you think that there is a kind of natural law that occurs, because we are rich, and because we are free, which I am happy for.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1603	Will Per-Willy Amundsen bring up suggestions before he answers?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1606	Yes, I'd like to. I refer to the proposals of the Progress Party and the proposals we are with the Right on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1611	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1614	I can reassure the representative Trine Skei Grande that I'm reading the international press, if that's what she was after. It is not like trying to produce it, that wars, unrest and conflicts are internationally decisive for the influx of asylum we experience in Norway. If the representative Trine Skei Grande remembers, the Iraq war started in 2003, and the violent growth in the number of asylum seekers we experience in Norway started under the red-green government, especially in the current session. So there's no traceable relationship at all here. At the same time, there is no relation between the level of conflict we experience internationally and the asylum influx we receive to Norway — rather across the board. Very many countries around us have experienced a decline in the number of asylum seekers, while we have seen growth. And it's because of one and only a liberal and genius immigration policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1621	I want to go back a little bit to the question that Bjørg Tørresdal raised, and that she did not get an answer to. She didn't ask if she read correctly – she obviously did, she quoted from the program. What she asked was this: what is the price of – what will it cost – sending an Iraqi back to, for example, Iran or where it might be? That's what she asked. I believe that, with what they have said, Norway, for example. in the case of Iraqis – a good deal of Iraqis came here after the war in Iraq – to enter into an agreement with Iran or who would it be to send them back to Iraq? Now I think the Progress Party should answer this question quite specifically: What is the price that you have to pay for this? And: Will Norway conclude an agreement with Iran to send back Iraqis who have applied for asylum in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1628	The representative of Requam knows very well that it is not natural to send Arabs back to Iran, where there are Persians. It's not a natural coupling, as we see it. When we talk about cultural neighbourhoods, it is neighbouring countries that have a natural cultural coexistence, so that integration and settlement in these areas will not be problematic. Of course, mentioning a price is completely impossible for me, because that is exactly what you are going to negotiate! When using billions abroad through the aid budget, it is reasonably obvious to the Progress Party that it must be possible to see it in the context of Norwegian immigration policy, such as the return of illegal immigrants, so that we actually get a solution to the unworthy situation of immigrants who live illegally in Norway, without legally staying.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1641	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1644	Norwegian asylum policy and the situation of asylum recipients have marked the debate this summer and the autumn. When there are about 15 000 asylum seekers this year, there are three times as many as last year. Examples of the major challenges the municipalities face in terms of housing and asylum reception are many. For example: My home municipality, Skien, has repeatedly given the Labour Party rapporteur a clear expression of frustration. But I also want to add that a lot of municipalities are doing a huge job in this area. I said that earlier today, too. There is no doubt that the UDI has worked and is still working on blasts, and that the authorities are under a strong pressure. It is the government that is responsible for thousands of asylum seekers now facing an uncertain future – for three years of red-green asylum policy has led asylum seekers to Norway much more than before. Three times as many come, and no other country in Europe has had an increase of as much as Norway. It's a fact. The right has long warned against the government's policy sending wrong signals into the world. We believe that Norway should pursue a decent asylum policy. Norway shall help those in need of protection under international law, but also if other strong human considerations exist. However, there must be no false hopes about who can get asylum in Norway, which we believe the Government and the majority of the population have actually done. It is said when the Council of State in the revised national budget for 2008 admitted that the Government could have helped to create an external picture that Norway has a more liberal policy now than before. It is against this background that the Government of the autumn announced its 13 focus points on asylum policy – action in a sharper direction – yes, whether they are implemented. But unfortunately, we still see a few examples, as it has been said here, of these advertised points being realized and having begun to work. It should worry more than right that it takes so long. With a possible exception of all or part of point 5 of the Government, the Right will be able to stand behind all the restrictive measures. For us, the 13 points of the Government are not either – or, rather, a both – and. It is regrettable that the Council of State and the majority of the population believe that everything is up and decided, and that several measures are not necessary. It's worrying that the bulk of the population seems to be satisfied and well reconciled that more doesn't have to be done. Because the situation suggests that more should be done. Therefore, in the autumn, the Right promoted proposals for eleven new catchment measures as a complement to the 13 points of the Government. For us, it's e.g. the importance of countering the increased use of anchor children, i.e.: that the parents send the children first, then come for family reunion later. Indeed, the number of unaccompanied minor asylum seekers has increased dramatically this year. At the end of October 2008, 1 053 asylum applications were registered from persons who declared to be lone minors on arrival. In the same period in 2007, 280 applications were registered by lone minors. So we're talking about a quadruple. The right-hand proposal for a stricter regulation, both for age testing and DNA testing, must also be seen in this context. For the right, it is important that both age testing and DNA studies are the general rule, not just an opportunity, as the majority of population have adopted. When the number of asylum seekers in general, and single minors in particular, continues to rise, how can the Council of State claim that there is nothing to suggest that these provisions need to be tightened or amended? On the right, stricter requirements for family start-up entertainment were proposed to ensure that people have something to live with and that they should be self-sustaining. It is good that the government also tightened up in this area, even if we register some other device. There are currently too many examples of headlines in the media that give the impression that Norway is open to asylum seekers and that illegal immigrants can too easily remain in the country. We have just read that the border crossings on Svinesund are on a wide gap, and not even the police are moving out when the Customs Department stops people without travel documents. Only during November did 54 paperless travellers continue to enter Norway via Eastfold. It can't go on like that. In the past, we have also been able to read in the Evening Post that Norway receives fewer young asylum seekers and Sweden. I could have given much more examples as an expression that the Government should have met these eleven points to the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1670	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1673	I am pleased that the representative of Kari Lise Holmberg in his speech is clear that we are still to provide protection to people on the run, and that she is at the same time clear that this will happen within the international commitments Norway has – even though the Right is now eager to compete with the Advance Party on votes moving dangerously close to the border. In the past, the Progress Party has called for Norway to renegotiate the international agreements to which Norway has committed itself in this field. The only possible government option on the civil side today appears to be the Right and the Advance Party. Can Kari Lise Holmberg on behalf of the Right now once and for all confirm that it is not a current track for such a government, if it becomes the Right Party and the Advance Party that will govern?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1682	Right-wing leaders and will continue to pursue a strict but fair, humane and consistent asylum and immigration policy, and we are following the international agreements signed. I would like to remind the representative that in the last period – when I also worked on immigration issues – we were going to negotiate in every case to create a majority of the Bondevik II government. It was then quite common to create a majority with the Workers' Party. At that time it was the Center Party and the SV that stood for a completely different policy. If there is now a government cooperation between the Right and the Advance Party, we will continue to maintain a strict but humane, fair and consistent immigration policy based on international agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1691	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1694	For those who believe in fate, it may seem like the irony of fate that we are dealing with this matter today. It's 14 days until Christmas. In 14 days we'll mark and celebrate Christmas. We're going to celebrate a birth, we're going to mark and celebrate a family that there was no room for. There was no room for the family. They didn't fit in the inn, they got a stable to be in. This child and this family later became refugees. Because of a political decision, they were persecuted, and they had to flee. We'll celebrate and mark this in 14 days. Today we heard about Martti Ahtisaari, who has been a refugee, an internal refugee. In 1939 he had to flee. Wiborg was occupied by the Soviet power, the family had to flee, and they became internally displaced refugees. We can have this as a backstop when we discuss immigration and refugee policy in Norway in 2009. So let's think about that a little bit. Who's been a fugitive? Who's been persecuted? And who has had to escape to survive? Language creates images, and we use the language to create images. We do that when we look at this proposal from the Right -- it's perhaps the most disappointing thing that this time the proposal comes from the Right, it's almost depressing, I'll say, when I look at these points. But language creates images. What does the title say? Yeah, it's about inflow. We imagine a flow of asylum seekers to Norway, they continuously cross the border and come to us. It's an inflow, and it's groundless asylum seekers. Who initially knows who's groundless – and who we're going to stop? Basically, we don't know who's groundless. Only once people have been properly treated, properly assessed under Norwegian administrative law and under the rules in force do we know whether an application is unfounded or whether the person needs residence and protection. That's the actual ratio, and we're going to deal with that. But by drawing a picture and using the language in a certain way, we create a picture that here comes people in a bunch, in a lot, they flow across the country, and in addition, they're groundless. It's international warriors, but it's often national wars that create refugees. Where do they come from, those who are now applying for Europe, applying for Norway? They come from Iraq, from a war we ourselves have been at, at least indirectly – we have not been involved in the war, but it is created by one of our allies. They come from Somalia, a war-torn country without a system, without a political structure. They're from Afghanistan. They come from parts of the old Soviet, which have collapsed, and where people are being persecuted. These are the actual ratios. That's these guys saying coming in stream, and that's these we're essentially calling groundless. We also know that there are some of these people who do not have the right to protection – we know that. We know that maybe up to 50 pst. of those who come and who have their cases dealt with in Norway, there is no requirement for protection. Of course, they should not be allowed to stay in Norway. But among those that come, it's between 40 and 50 pst. which has a reasonable requirement for protection. And it's our responsibility under international agreements and international conventions to take care of them and give them space. That's what's the actual ratio. There's absolutely no reason to dramatize the situation that we've had a certain increase in recent years, as a result of the dramatic increase in the number of refugees in the world. It's increased steadily in recent years. That's why it's almost unpleasant, as I also said to the Progress Party instead, when what we're talking about in Norway, is intimidation – it's about internalising as much as possible, it's about reporting or what it might be, to try to avoid so many coming and looking for room with us. Had we had fewer conflicts, had there been fewer warriors around the world, there would have been fewer refugees. That's exactly what Martti Ahtisaari said today, that it's our job to try to reduce war and misery and create peace. If we are able to use the resources and forces on it, we will also be able to reduce the number of refugees who come to Norway and want to stay in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1711	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1714	I record that the representative Reikvam once again chooses to act as a language police officer and hang out in semantics and vocabulary instead of discussing the substance of the matter. We understand that SV is very concerned about saying that you are against war. The party of progress is also opposed to war. But what this is about is to deal with the reality: that very many of those who seek asylum, the vast majority, are happier and abuse the institution of asylum. They come here on a false basis. Does it really not see that it represents a problem, that it undermines the institution of asylum, and that in the long term we are actually doing the people who really need protection, the people who need a place of refuge, and who we are going to take care of – because everyone agrees – a service of bears? Does the SV not see that with the policy SV stands for, is it in the process of undermining the institution of asylum?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1723	It is not easy to communicate with the Progress Party. I haven't talked about language policy, I haven't mentioned the word language policy. You have not understood what I said at all – and that may be because of my way of communicating. What I said was that we use the language to create images -- pictures that we draw for people out there, that's because it's an inflow. Through the words we use, we create images, and in that way we are involved in influencing people's perceptions. We create a picture of an inflow, of groundless etc. We know that barely 50 pst. stay of applicants for asylum in Norway. Of the 5,000 or 6000 have about 50 pst. a reasonable requirement for protection, and they receive it. These are the actual conditions. And it's our job to take care of these and secure them properly. If we are to pursue a harsh asylum policy, it means that there will also be someone who does not have the right to protection and... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1731	It is true that words are used to create images, and the representative Rikham used very strong words to try to create a picture of the right-wing policy of inhumanity in this area. I have problems understanding Rikvam's position on this issue, when he is so clear to admit that approx. However, half of those entering Norway are refused. They would also have had the law of foreigners with which the Socialist Left Party was involved and submitted it to the Stortinget and was adopted for a short time back. What is humane about not taking seriously that between 6 000 and 7 000 people sell everything they own every year, are indebted to international criminal traffickers to come to Norway, are sitting on asylum receptions in Norway for maybe two to three years, and yet are being refused? What's human about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1738	Our starting point is that we should pursue an asylum policy which is such that people who feel that they have a reasonable right to protection – who feel that they are being persecuted, who are on the run – should feel that in Norway they are at least getting fair treatment, a rough treatment and a treatment that is as caring as we can give them. That's the picture we're going to try to draw out, out in the world. To me, that's what's rust. That someone then of course exploits this, that someone comes here without any requirement for protection, that someone comes here because they think it's good to be here, and that there are opportunities for work, etc., we can never help prevent it, we can never stop it. We have to take that as a consequence and as a result of the fact that we initially have the objective and want to pursue a harsh policy and give protection to those who need protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1743	We have a number of people sitting in reception and receiving their application, or sitting with final rejection. We also have a number of asylum seekers who have been denied their applications, who are waiting to be sent out, or they are just waiting for something. Some of them are in Lier's waiting room. The representative of Reikvam, together with the representative of Chaudhry, was visiting Lier, and stated in connection with that visit: ‘We are particularly concerned that vulnerable groups, such as children, women and people with mental health problems, receive follow-up and organised housing provision.’ This is what Rolf Reikvam said, who visited Lier's government waiting and transit reception. I have also visited Lier, and my question is: How will SV follow up on this by offering a better offer? Because it's absolutely right that they need a better offer in Lier. Here, there must be some grip, which?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1755	We were co-responsive and were behind this with a waiting reception. We were well with and got it established, because we thought it would be better than that people were walking randomly in the streets and arguing and had a worse housing offer than what we thought such a waiting reception would be. It's quite obvious – I've been there later, and I've also been to a hearing afterwards, at the waiting reception for Lier – that it doesn't work as intended, as we initially saw for ourselves. People stay for too long. It becomes a life of uncertainty and uncertainty, because they are unable to see any goal in relation to living time, etc. I believe that there is a need to reopen a thorough debate on waiting receptions – whether this is a good way to organise it for people who have been refused, or whether there are better ways to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1760	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1763	An overall objective of refugee policy is to provide protection for those who need it. Asylum policy must be consistent and fair, so that it is actually those who need protection who are allowed to stay. But we have to see individuals, not groups. All people have the right to be met with respect and individual treatment. In recent years, Norwegian asylum policy has moved away from the UN High Commissioner for Refugees' Recommendations for the assessment of different groups of asylum seekers. There are several examples of individual cases in which Norway has refused to comply with direct requests from UN agencies. It is regrettable, and particularly regrettable, that it is happening under a government which, in its declaration of cooperation, so clearly stated an objective of a more humane asylum and refugee policy. NOAS considers that some of the restrictions notified by the Government on 3 September are so drastic that asylum policy is now in fact stricter than when the Government took over in 2005. So NOAS is saying that. It should be a cross of thought. There is a challenging situation when the number of people seeking asylum in Norway is increasing as dramatically as it has done in the last year. It's important that we take action to prevent people without protection needing to spend on the long journey, invest huge sums, like life and health as efforts, just to end up in Oslo with rejection and return. However, the measures taken must not be at the expense of those who actually need protection. Children should also not have to pay the price for Norway’s need to send out signals in the world. Children are primarily children, not asylum seekers. They must then be treated. The situation today is also different from what we were facing last time we saw an increase in the number of asylum seekers. At that time, people came from countries where there was obviously no need for protection. Today, most people come from Iraq. As of 30 November, 2854 Iraqis had applied for asylum in Norway. The next countries on the list are Eritrea, Somalia and Afghanistan. Think – Iraq, Eritrea, Somalia and Afghanistan! We are talking about countries that are far from stable – countries where there have just been or are warlike conditions, countries where human rights do not stand in the high ground. I believe that a party such as the Progress Party, which actually supported the invasion of Iraq, should understand the consequences of such a war. People are being driven away. Persons who are not granted an asylum or a residence permit on a humanitarian basis in Norway are obliged to leave Norway within a given period. Very few travel back voluntarily, and there are many reasons for it. The number of voluntary returnees was about 40 in 2008. When so few travel voluntarily, it is important to focus on an effective return system. It also involves forced return. But I think there is a great potential in putting in place to encourage voluntary returns. I want to draw up an example that I have taken up with the Council of State on a previous occasion – Lier waiting reception. It is an offer of roof over the head for those who have received a final rejection. It was supposed to be a place where one is motivated for voluntary return, but today’s relationship at the Lier waiting reception motivates for anything other than voluntary return. An exit centre to facilitate return is not worthy of breaking down the people to return. They shall be upgraded to return, in my opinion. Not even completely banal, practical solutions are in place at the waiting reception. Internet access can be mentioned. It is limited to two old machines with great unforeseeability, which are available only for a few hours each afternoon. There is no even access to the phone for payment. I don't see how a intersection from the outside of the world contributes to motivating for return. Lier's waiting reception should be a place with real bets on making arrangements for return. How about manning a return office where residents could get qualified and specific information and assistance for return? Lier is the last stop on the way out of the country. But the people who live there still have the right to be treated in a dignified and respectful way. We're a long way from there now. To me, it is obvious that the concept of Lier waiting reception needs to be radically changed if we want to achieve the objectives of reception, namely to motivate voluntary return after final rejection. With regard to the proposals from the Right, I refer to the comments in the vote. We believe that the proposals are taken into account in Norwegian legislation. We are opposed to the proposal to further tighten family reunification rules. That is why Christian People's Party supports document No. 8:146 is annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1784	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1787	This, of course, is not the case, although the Christian People's Party is repeatedly trying to produce it, so that the increased influx we experience in Norway is due to the Iraq war. So it started in 2003, while we have seen the large growth in the number of asylum seekers in Norway in the current year. But that was not what I was going to ask the representative Tørresdal questions about. On the contrary, I see to my delight that the Christian People's Party has a majority comment saying that there is a need to put in place measures to reduce the number of asylum seekers coming to Norway who do not need protection. Here, the Christian People's Party demonstrates the inconsistency of its policy to the full. Thus, the number of asylum seekers who do not need to stay in Norway will be limited – as agreed by the Progress Party – but at the same time it will be possible to give residence to asylum seekers who have been refused and who are illegally present in Norway, only if they have lived here long enough. How can the Christian People's Party defend such a policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1794	It's easy to answer because the red thread in that policy is about human dignity. On the one hand, we will be much better off returning those who have unfounded applications, so that we do not get into the situation where people are waiting in Norway. But when we have come into the situation that some people are waiting in Norway, and they have lived here this year out and years in – they have not been allowed to stay, and we have not been able to send them home – we must be able to give them a decent treatment after many years, a new treatment where we also spend time in Norway. We have to take the consequence that we have not succeeded. That is why we have to give them an offer, and then we have to add to our assessment how long they have been in Norway. It would have solved the problem for many people and created much more human dignity. Then we will avoid getting into that situation in the future and getting better in terms of effective returns for those who are not going to be here.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1799	This is incredibly inconsistent, because the signal that the Christian People's Party is sending out is really that it's okay that you're an illegal immigrant just you've lived here long enough, just you've been hiding long enough, good enough to hide from the police, driven your light-sky businesses in a way that hasn't been captured. In other words, just being able to stay here long enough will mean that you will be staying in Norway. It's quite amazing that the Christian People's Party can't see the context. If we are to reduce inflows to Norway, there is a link between making amnesty-like decisions on the one hand and giving rewards to those who have been pressured to stay in Norway on the other hand on the wrong basis. Doesn't the Christian People's Party really see it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1806	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen must read the entire program and policy of the Christian People's Party. There we say, among other things. that those who come from countries to which we cannot return and who do not want to be returned, we will grant a temporary work permit. Then they will be registered, and then they will not hide from the police. Conditions associated with their return may be in full transparency, and they will be able to feed themselves. We want to treat those who are coming, in a dignified way, not put them to storage and take from them duties and rights. Only in this way can we take seriously that there are people in this country who live without identity and without their human rights being respected. We want to take them seriously. We'll give them rights and at the same time make sure that groups of people who get rejected and don't get returned will be smaller in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1814	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1817	An overall committee believes that Norway must pursue an immigration policy based on our international agreements and humanitarian obligations. That is a good starting point for the debate. There has also been broad political agreement on the need to do something, and the background to the Right proposal is the strong increase we have seen this year in the influx of asylum seekers who do not fulfil the conditions for protection. There was also the background to the measures taken by the Government during the year, first in the spring and then with the 13 points early in the fall. The centre party is behind these proposals. The relevance of applicants is an important element. It is important not to give people unjustified expectations about the possibility of staying in Norway. It is equally important to take account of the integration of the asylum system as such. Those are the ones who are fulfilling the conditions for protection that are to be granted asylum. Not least, we are committed to speeding up the processing of applications, cutting the waiting time in reception and facilitating rapid and good integration for those who actually get to stay here. The central party believes that the measures taken by the government during the year are the most appropriate to meet the situation we are in. When it comes to how these measures will actually turn out, we'll know more about it when we get out a little bit next year. With regard to the eleven concrete proposals from the Right, I would like to refer to the comments in the letter from the Council of State attached to the vote. So the central part shares these assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1830	Well, it's probably this thing about taking care of people on the run. What else would it be about? That is what the asylum institution is really about. When you use the term ‘people come to the free world’, it is precisely because we are defined as the free world that people come here. We respect human rights in a completely different way from what you find elsewhere in the world. The representative Reikvam brought out the message of Christmas. It's very easy to do in such a debate. It could also be possible to draw the message from the speech we heard during the Nobel Prize distribution today, where Martti Ahtisaari told about being a refugee, even about being a refugee in his own country. There's something here I think it's important to note. In particular, there are comments on the large increase in refugees in Norway, which is much larger than in other countries. It is with respect to report a rather subtle set of figures – that was a parliamentary right way to say it? There are cities in Sweden that have received more refugees than Norway has. The fact that you have a fall in Sweden is kind of just fair. It has actually become such a pressure on us in the free world because there has been such chaos elsewhere in the world. There have been very many other countries in Europe with a great deal of stress. We in Norway have been in the shadows, but now we have begun to appear. For me as a liberal, it's a basic way of thinking about any kind of politics to be able to see people, seeing the individual, putting up a policy from the individual rather than seeing groups. It's about dealing with a policy area where you only see groups when they're outside the country, but it's going to have a policy where you see people in the country, it's kind of creeping out for me. It was also a belief that when Norway was invaded in 1940, all those who had to flee left on April 9. After that, there was no point in fleeing. Obviously, it's not like that. Of course, a war trend in a country is causing the number of refugees to change. The hopelessness of living in the country where you are being oppressed changes. The right says that Norway should not seem to be open to asylum seekers. Yes, Norway is open to asylum seekers. The Asylum Institute is a human right and a right in line with everyone else. It is not the right to asylum, but it is the right to seek asylum that is a human right, and that is the human right that must be fought for. I hope Right now realize that the Progress Party is a sinking ship in Norwegian politics, that there is no sense in competing with them, and that they come back to decent citizenship – the decent citizenship that sees people. What's interesting in this debate is to look at what the increase is due to. Claiming that warriors are not a reason for the increase must be a subtle act of seeing the nationality of those who are actually coming. The claim that the war in Somalia has not affected the refugees who come to Norway must be a brief conclusion. Of course, the war in Somalia has affected the arrival of many Somalis in Norway. The reason why so many Somalis have been accommodated in Norway is that they have been persecuted in Somalia. If we're going to be able to do this, I think we need to work a lot more with our processing systems, do it faster, get to the electronic procedure, with which I know the Government is working, and get to a faster procedure, which will also make those who really want to go back, not go in the dark and lose the roots, because there are some people who are going back. But what's the problem with the system today -- if I can use 30 seconds on Lier -- is that those who behave properly, in a way, get hurt, while those who break out of the system, who go underground, are the ones who go victorious out of the system we have. Today, there are those who have not done anything wrong during their stay in Norway, who remain on such waiting receptions and do not get the opportunity to return, while we really encourage people who exploit the system. There's a bug connection in our system that we have to do something about.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1851	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1854	I record that the representative Skei Grande refers to it as a ‘fine round’ of words when you comment and refer to the strong growth of asylum we experience in Norway. So it's almost a triple in relation to last year, and at least a triple in relation to what was expected in the government budget for 2008. Even the representative, Skei Grande, discovers a fine deal with time. Because when you refer to the increase in Sweden, and that Sweden has accepted many, it was earlier. Now asylum figures are falling, and Norway is the country in the world that has had the highest rate of asylum growth. We are at the top of Europe in relation to the population. So you keep talking about international needs, international obligations. But does the Left not see that we have some national needs we need to meet, that we must actually have sustainable immigration, and that we must not have such massive immigration into Norway that integration policy cannot work?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1863	Now I thought the representative of the Progress Party had such a good overview of the figures that he knows that massive immigration, the great immigration, does not come through our asylum institute. Our asylum institute is really the jewel we have in relation to human rights here in the world. I think it must be important for a party that sometimes also uses the word 'liberal' about its ideology to be able to fight for the preservation of this institution of asylum. The right to seek asylum, which people have under human rights, is, in fact, something I am willing to fight for. I'm proud that we have a country that respects that right, and that's something I don't want to erode at all. I actually want to strengthen that right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1868	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1871	I am pleased that the majority of the Committee does not support the proposal for a representative and that the entire Committee agrees that Norway must pursue an immigration policy based on our international agreements and humanitarian obligations. Asylum seekers with a real need for protection shall be accommodated, and those protected in Norway shall be quickly integrated and part of the Norwegian society. I am pleased that there is a majority in the Committee that there is a need for action to reduce the number of asylum seekers who do not need protection and to facilitate the return of persons without legal residence to their country of origin as soon as possible. It is also gratifying that the majority of the Committee considers that the Government’s package of measures is the most appropriate to meet the current situation. Although the high levels of asylum arrivals are very challenging to deal with, I believe it is important to keep a firm track of the development of a comprehensive, efficient and user-oriented foreign administration. It is therefore necessary to look closely at problem solving, organisation, regulation, systems and resources. This is what the Government does, among other things. through the Foreign Affairs Act which was dealt with in Stortinget in the spring of 2008 and the extensive regulatory work currently under way in the Ministry. The minority's proposals have several points that have been discussed in the past in relation to the treatment of new foreign law, see Ot.prp. No 75 for 2006-2007 and Innst. O. No 42 for 2007-2008. This also applies to the minority proposal No. 12 on weekly reporting obligations for deputies, which were not part of the draft representative. I would like to stress that it follows from both the current and the new law on foreigners that both those who have been expelled and those who have received a final refusal to leave the kingdom may be required to notify them if there is a risk that they will not leave the country. In cases where there is no avoidance risk, I cannot see the need to introduce reporting obligations regime. Minority proposal No. 13 from the Progress Party on the prohibition of marriage between biological fats and cousins was also not part of the proposal for a representative. As you know, the Ministry did not wish to impose any restrictions on access to the residence permit for siblings, see Ot.prp. No 75 for 2006-2007. Other items have been taken care of by those measures which the Ministry is implementing or investigating. The large increase in the influx of asylum confronts us with demanding challenges. It has therefore been necessary to implement measures to reduce the number of asylum seekers who do not need protection. Developments in the future depend on a number of factors, where the design of Norwegian policies is one important factor. The government is following developments closely, not least as regards the refugee situation, asylum flows and changes in other countries’ policies. The need for changes in our national policies is under constant review. The consideration of human refugee and asylum policies and good integration work are important issues in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1888	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1891	The Council of State is probably well aware that, when there is a warning of a narrowing of asylum practices in a country, as was done when the Government made its proposals at the beginning of September, it will have a rather rapid impact on inflows. When we look at the figures in the last few months, it is not possible to trace any particular impact of the measures announced by the Government. On the contrary, the changes we see are long-term changes, i.e. natural economic cycles that follow months throughout the year. Does the Council not see the obvious need to tighten up further in Norwegian asylum policy if it is not intended that 15 000 people arrive annually in Norway for several years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1898	I am pleased with this opportunity to explain to the representative Amundsen that, with regard to the background to several of his questions during this debate, and to the extent that in the debate we have had earlier today on the state budget, it is wrong that there has been no change since the 13 proposals with concrete measures were submitted. Firstly, the strong growth in the number of arrivals stopped, and to some extent the number has also decreased somewhat. I have recorded that several media have been very clear that there is a strong impact of the measures presented. I have always tried to dampen the impression of it, but the representative Amundsen's suggestion that no change has occurred is therefore totally wrong. This discussion was believed to be before the measures were put forward. As it says in the proposition of the state budget, that figure would probably be 17 000, and maybe higher than that, if we hadn't taken action. So now we can go to 15,000.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1906	The predecessors of the state council from the same party were known to say: return, return, return. It's a conclusion that the Right fully agrees with, but it has to be very frustrating for many of those who work in this field to get order, to get a firm but fair asylum policy, to read in Monday's VG that paperless people are being let in across Svinesund in a large number and sent on to Oslo just with a note about where the address of the Police Foreign Unit is. In November alone, 54 were sent on. What will the Council of State do with this? Would it, for example, be have been an idea to collect those who come to Svinesund, who are paperless, holding them back and e.g. to the Police Foreign Unit once a day in order to ensure that they are properly registered, so that people do not enter Norway without having their identity clarified?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1913	In the context of Norway becoming part of the Schengen area, both the Right and the Party and the Government I represent felt that it was an important measure for easy border crossing in Europe. From then on, there was no longer any opportunity to exercise control at border crossings, with reference to the representative’s name Svinesund. So it was not possible to have that kind of border control anymore. But what it's up to, and what the police have done increasingly, and to which we have put our own resources, is to exercise so-called border controls. It's done. I agree with the representative's problem, because it is very much about the fact that identification is a major problem. The experience of police border controls is that more people have identification papers when checking in the area near the border than those who do when applying for asylum, and that is an action that we will continue to follow up. [[The President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1918	The President must ask for the speaking time to be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1921	We have not succeeded in sending back those who have received a final rejection, which is to be returned. The Bondevik II government proposed an exit centre. The Stoltenberg government took over and called it a waiting reception, but it's about the same thing, namely Lier's waiting reception. There lives a lot of people waiting, and there's little going on compared to what would have been the goal of the scheme. It has been up to the debate earlier today that Lier's conditions are not optimal for motivating return. Several organisations have been inside and thought that they should have better information, a better service equipment and follow-up of those who are residents of Lier, both to enable them to do better and to motivate them to get a good start in their home country. Does the Council of State see the need to improve the conditions of reception just when it comes to motivating return?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1930	I cannot fully support the representative's description of the actual conditions at Lier's waiting reception. I have answered that in a previous question in the Questionnaire with, among other things. reference to the UDI, which has continuous control of the waiting reception as with other receptions and where not the same findings have been reported. Now leave it. It is in the nature of the matter that a waiting reception is probably not the place you expect to find the highest mood and get the most positive feedback on the offer given. It is in the nature of the matter, for there is a place where people who have been told their case and are going back. I am prepared to discuss all possible measures that can help speed up the return process. I stress that we have some cases in the country that it is not possible to return – some of them are referred to as unreturnable – simply do not use the option they have to return. It is in the nature of the matter that many of them will be critical to the reception, but if we can get more effective return, I would like to discuss it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1939	I want to follow up Lier's waiting reception. When Lier's waiting reception was set up, there was a great deal of consensus here in the hall about the intentions. Making a system where people could be waiting to be returned, there was also a broad consensus. Now it turns out that people have lived there for a very long time, and since we've been trying this out for a while, I want to ask a very simple question to the Council of State: Is the Council satisfied with the results we have for the return of Lier?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1946	For the sake of order, I should perhaps say that I have also been to Lier's waiting reception. I see how much effort, how much it takes to stimulate people to go home when they have been denied, after having had a dream of being allowed to stay in Norway. I am not satisfied with the results we have for return. In fact, I believe that Lier’s waiting reception, with which the representative rightly points out that we do not have a very long experience, is – and can still be developed to become even better – a positive contribution to increasing the number of returns.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1953	I would like to follow up on the first question that I asked in the lines, namely whether you are observing a decline in the number of asylum seekers. It is fairly obvious that if you see influxes of asylum seekers over several years, you have to deal with a business cycle that changes over the year. For example, the pressure is extra heavy during the summer months, and you can see that it falls against the winter. The so-called reported decline in September/October compared to the previous month is nothing but a natural economic development when we look at the asylum figures over – let's say – a ten-year period. Nothing can be attributed to anything but such a variation. Claiming that the proposals launched by the Government are such that if not 15 000 are the target for the number of asylum seekers this year and for the next year, are these measures not effective? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1962	The President will remind you once again that the speaking time for lines is up to 1 minute. The President wishes to be kind in the Christmas month, but for the sake of the Rules of Procedure, the President must nevertheless be strict when it comes to speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1965	The starting point for the representative Amundsen is completely wrong. The seasonal fluctuations to which the representative Amundsen refers are precisely one of the reasons why we can say that there has been a slight decrease. In fact, September is an example of a month in which we had a different development than in normal seasonal fluctuations. So the starting point for Amundsen is definitely wrong. I think he may be one of the few who do not realize that the notified measures have had a certain significance for arrivals in Norway. Then the implementation of the measures remains, because we follow laws and regulations and actually send regulatory changes and any legislative changes to the consultation. The measures are in the process of being implemented. As I said, the estimate from the UDI for 2009 was that we would at least get 17 000 if we did not take action. Then we took action, and it turns out that the notified measures work. The real effects of the measures will be seen as they are implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1974	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1978	I'm not going to ruin the President's pre-Christmas mood. I'll make sure there's time left. I'm just going to have the floor for a brief summary of the debate. To the extent that this debate has led to something, there is one necessary clarification: that any government, God forbid – if it is allowed to say so – consisting of the Right Party and the Progress Party will not take the initiative in trying to renegotiate the international agreements we have concluded. Otherwise, I do not interpret the answer that Kari Lise Holmberg gave to my reply earlier in the debate. It is an important and necessary clarification, because this is such a fundamental question that it has to be resolved before the elections. There may not be a result of negotiations between the parties at elections. Thus, we have recorded the first loss of the Progress Party in such a possible government, and then significant parts of the Advance Party fall together as a short house.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1985	The President will state that the word ‘God forbid’ is unparliamentary and should not be spoken more than once.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1988	So it's not like it's up to the Right or any other civil party to cancel parts of the Progress Party's policy. The whole immigration policy of the Progress Party is at stake, including that we should look at some international agreements that Norway has acceded to, which a number of other countries in Europe have chosen to reserve themselves to, but which we, in a known style, have unfortunately very easily knocked through in this Chamber. So it's not like that Right – or not – can tell something about what the Advance Party's policy is in this area. If it turns out to be relevant to form such a government, there is something you sit down and negotiate at that time. I would also like to stress that the view of the Progress Party on the Foreign Affairs Act is based on exactly the same principles that most people today have highlighted as fundamental in Norwegian asylum policy, namely the Refugee Convention. This does not mean that the refugee convention cannot be improved, that it cannot be renewed. It was created once in the early 1950s. It is clear that some things have happened since that time. I would urge the Labour Party to perhaps listen to former Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, Tony Blair, who expressed exactly the same need as the Progress Party has expressed, not only in relation to the Refugee Convention, but also to parts of the European Convention on Human Rights, which the Progress Party has addressed on previous occasions. But as I said, the Norwegian Conventions are obliged to follow in our alternative foreign law, and it is not that other parties have any opportunity to depreciate the policy of the Progress Party in this area. There's a election in September next year that's going to determine the composition of this hall. And the bigger the Progress Party gets, the more likely it is that we are getting a tightening in Norwegian immigration policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e1997	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1307]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e2013	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1308]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e2026	The vote will then be taken on the issues that have been debated today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e2034	In the course of the debate, 38 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1–6, by Per-Willy Amundsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposals No. 7 and 8, by Per-Willy Amundsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 9-12, by Per-Willy Amundsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, Right and Left, proposals Nos. 13 and 14, by Per-Willy Amundsen, on behalf of the Group of the European Progressive Democrats and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and in particular Mr Amundsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats). 15, by Per-Willy Amundsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 16, from Bent Höie on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left proposals No. 17-30, by Per-Willy Amundsen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on proposal No. 31, by Bent Höie on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 32-35, from Bent Höie on behalf of the Right and Left proposals No. 36 and 37, by Bent Höie, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 38, from Leif Helge Kongshaug on behalf of the Left Proposals Nos. 3, 12 and 14 have been converted into transmission proposals. Proposal No. 3, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian Party and Left, says in amended form: ‘It is recommended that the Government provide a framework which, through targeted public instruments, can help to facilitate the minimisation of the negative effects of Hydro’s announced closure of the Søderberg plant on Karmøy.’; Proposal No. 12, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Left, reads as amended: ‘It is recommended that the Government, in the context of the 2009 Revised National Budget, come back with a proposal to extend the linguistic screening test at health centres of 4 year olds in 12 municipalities to all 4 year olds throughout the country.’ Proposal No. 14, from the Party of Advancement and the Right, reads as amended: ‘It is recommended that the Government undertake a language training programme for mother and children, where the 4-year control has revealed a lack of Norwegian knowledge.’ The President proposes that these proposals be forwarded to the Government without any rebuttal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e2103	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 37, from the right. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e2118	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 36, from the right. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e2136	The proposals are then put to the vote. 34 and 35, from the right and left. Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to the Revised National Budget in 2009 with a case that ensures that Norway takes greater responsibility for the international refugee work by increasing the quota for transfer refugees by 500.’ Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government in the context of the Revised National Budget 2009 to extend the entitlement to Norwegian training in the introduction scheme to 500 hours.’; The Christian People's Party has announced that they want to support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e2160	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 32 and 33, from the Right and the Left. Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government in the context of the Municipal Proposition for 2010 to come up with an escalating plan to ensure that its tax revenue again amounts to at least 50 pst. of the income of the municipalities.’» Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to come back with a case that facilitates the continuation and extension of procedures with municipal task differentiation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e2181	There is a vote on proposal No. 31, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e2197	The proposals are then put to the vote. 17-30, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e2280	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 16, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e2295	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 15, from the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e2312	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 13, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e2329	The proposals are then put to the vote. 9-11, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e2356	The proposals are then put to the vote. 7 and 8, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e2378	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1, 2, 4, 5 and 6, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e2416	The proposal for a decision shall then be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e6444	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Bjørg Tørresdal on behalf of the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 2, from Vera Lightcloth on behalf of Left Proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left, have been converted into transmission proposals. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government initiate an experiment in which more actors than the municipalities are allowed to manage start-up loans or parts of the scheme on behalf of the Husbank for a limited period of time.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e6492	In the course of the debate, 13 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-12, by Per-Willy Amundsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress and Right-wing Proposal No. 13, from Per-Willy Amundsen on behalf of the Progress Party
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e6516	The vote will then take place alternately between the vote and proposals No. 1-12, from the Party of Advancement and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-10.ana.ud668e7377	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - That's not what happened. The meeting has been cancelled.
