ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e73	The representative Erling Sande, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat. The appointed alternates of Oslo, Ingunn Gjerstad and Aud Kvalbein, have taken their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e90	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Marit Nybakk. – Other proposals are not available, and Marit Nybakk is unanimously elected president of today’s Odelstinget meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e100	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting be interrupted, if necessary, for Stortingets Christmasunsj at 0 p.m. 13.45 p.m. and I'll see you again at 13.45 p.m. 16 for tonight's meeting. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e116	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes and Socialist Left Party, Christian People's Party, Center Party and Left 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e127	The Nav reform is an important reform for all the political parties on the Stortinget. There has been broad agreement on the objective of more people at work and less on social benefits, of having better services adapted to the needs of users, and not least more comprehensive and efficient welfare management. Now there are offices all over the country, and we are in the process of implementing the organisational part of the reform. The Nav reform is not just an organisational reform. It also involves thinking differently about all the tools that the whole management of labour and welfare has, which are about better follow-up of people and more targeted work. St.meld. No 9 for 2006–2007, Work, well-being and inclusion, had a review of many of the instruments of the earlier agencies that make up Nav today. The focus of the message was to look at people's opportunities and not people's limitations, and it was concluded that many of the instruments needed to be changed. One was about introducing the qualification programme, which is now being rolled out in the established Nav offices, but it is also about making the entire administrative instruments available to all users, regardless of income protection. This also saw the need to put in place a simpler and more labour-oriented temporary security of income. The Stortinget agreed to replace today’s rehabilitation money, restitution money and temporary unpaid pay with a temporary income hedge and additional social benefits and to improve the follow-up of the individual. That's what the odelstningsproposition we're dealing with today is about. It is proposed to introduce a temporary security of income called redundancy pay. It is proposed that all those who turn to the Nav Office and who want or need assistance to get to work should have the right to assess their needs and should be involved in this assessment. Work performance assessment will be able to better identify individual opportunities and it is proposed that a right and an obligation to participate in the design of an activity plan is also laid down for the individual to be able to work, which will be used for a systematic follow-up of the individual. It is an overall committee that supports the introduction of redundancy payments. I record that the Advance Party would prefer to have a different name for it, but there is a stir up of the very introduction, regardless of the name given to the child, and that is good. There is also agreement to have additional social benefits to compensate for specific expenditure incurred by individuals in the implementation of a labour-oriented action. These benefits are targeted at those who are currently receiving one of these income insurance schemes, and they are reserved for those who have what we call more than just transitory problems in getting into work. There shall be a causal link between the reduced working capacity and the health problems, but the main reason for the reduced working capacity shall not be required. Furthermore, it is proposed that the working capacity should be reduced by at least half and that the benefit should be provided for as long as it is necessary to carry out the necessary activity in order to get to work, but with an external limit of four years. The benefit shall be calculated on the basis of the pensionable income held the year before the disability was reduced or on the basis of an average of the pensionable income during the last three calendar years if it provides a higher basis. The performance is proposed to be 66 pst. on the basis of the calculation, with a ceiling of 6 G and where, as a general rule, the minimum performance is now to be 1,97 G and 2,44 G for young workers. In addition, it is proposed to provide a standardised child supplement. When the redundancy allowance is granted, it is proposed that the Employment and Welfare Seat, together with the recipient of the money, set concrete dates, what we call the follow-up dates, to ensure follow-up and progress in relation to getting into work. The user shall be centred here and the time of follow-up must be determined accordingly. In this context, self-reporting through reporting cards, the performance assessment and the activity plan are of course also important. This is a little short summary of what is proposed. I am now going to comment on some points in the setting that there is a little disagreement about. The first is the proposal that redundancy benefits may be provided for up to four months if a user is assessed for disability pension and that the period may be extended for a further four months if the application has not been dealt with within the first four months. Here the Progress Party wants no such deadline. I agree with the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats that Nav should, of course, deal with the applications in a timely manner, and that this is precisely why. should have such a period. The second is the proposal to be able to provide redundancy payments for up to three months in waiting time for work after an individual has carried out active treatment or job-oriented measures. The Progress Party and the Christian People's Party believe that redundancy payments should then be given for six months. In this respect, the majority believe that it is obvious to start with measures to get into work as part of the activity plan, i.e. prior to completion of the scheme, and that such an extended timeframe is therefore not necessary. Furthermore, in my view, it is also a budgetary matter if such an extension is to be made. I mentioned in the introduction that the amount of the redundancy allowance should be of an external duration of four years. It is proposed that regulations provide that decisions on redundancy payments within this external framework should, as a general rule, be made for a maximum of one year at a time. Here, the Right and Left want it regulated by law, while the majority supports the Government’s proposal, but specifies in the wording that the duration of the benefit period should be determined on the basis of a concrete assessment of the individual’s possibilities and needs for assistance. The Progress Party proposes that the special rules of refugees should be abolished in the public interest. They believe that it is unreasonable that refugees are given the same rights as Norwegian citizens have to work up over time. To that I would say: for the majority, it is important to deal with the Refugee Convention, which says that refugees must comply with the conditions that otherwise apply in order to benefit from a right, except for conditions that they are unable to fulfil. The new Foreign Affairs Act states that all residents of Norway who are refugees from war and persecution and who are entitled to protection under our international obligations shall have the same rights and that those entitled to protection under the European Convention on Human Rights shall have the same rights. For the majority, it is important to focus on the particular situation of refugees and stateless persons and therefore will not support the proposals of the Progress Party. There is disagreement in the committee about having a standardised child supplement. On the right, it doesn't want to at all on the grounds that the children's supplement weakens the working line, which I strongly disagree with, while the Christian People's Party, on the other hand, wants an assessment of a higher and need-tested child supplement. I think it's wise that we don't introduce more complicated systems than necessary, which I think a need test can be. But I agree with the Christian People's Party that a continuous assessment of the level of the Appendix itself is important. This proposal proposes that the recipients of redundancy payments should submit notification cards every fourteen days, as is currently the case for redundancy payments. It has created a debate. Here the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party propose that it be once a month. I believe that it should be possible, of course, except to report every fourteen days if you do not get it because of illness or other things, and therefore you have to show reason and flexibility. There has been some debate in the media about the right of users to change the case handler in Nav, and it is suggested that this right should be legalised by the Progress Party, the Right and the Left. I believe that Nav should always be flexible vis-à-vis users who, for various reasons, believe that it is important that someone else treats an application, or manages the follow-up by themselves. But at the same time, I believe that there is no need to legislate for this right. Finally, it is an important issue of law that we are dealing with today. I think that the changes we are likely to adopt today could mean a lot to a lot of people who want to get into work, and will mean a lot to getting better and more flexible employment management.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e173	There is broad consensus within the Committee on the intention to introduce redundancy payments, work performance assessments and activity plans for past and closer follow-up of recipients. The progress party believes that the sooner and closer a person is able to follow up the users, the more likely he is to return to activity quickly. This is an important step towards achieving the goal that everyone agrees on is the goal of Nav. The suspension also provides for a clear indication of the rights and obligations of a recipient. This, in our view, will help both Nav and users to know what they have to do with them in a much better way. For the Progress Party, it is important that a user is quickly made aware of his or her ability to work, and that the person on the basis of this should take part in the design of an activity plan – a plan that should have concrete objectives. The majority suggest that the new aggregated benefit should be called redundancy pay. Although the most important thing is what is the content of this money, we believe that the word is crooked and far, which is supported by both the Cancer Association and the NHO. The Progress Party believes, as many of the Hearing Officers do, that it should be called clarification money. Although the Progress Party agrees with the setting, in addition to the name, there are some areas where we disagree. This applies, inter alia, to: that refugees should have special rights, which, in our view, contribute to the creation of a sorting society. The Progress Party points out that for those who have not acquired rights in the public interest, the same rights have been granted in relation to treatment and labour market measures in the context of the implementation of the Qualification Programme, as supported by the Progress Party. The Progress Party therefore sees no need to lay down specific rules for refugees. There are a number of provisions in the People's Security Act that automatically ensure that refugees achieve the same rights as Norwegian citizens have to work on over time. In some cases, refugees have more people’s rights than Norwegian citizens who have paid social security contributions for decades. The Progress Party refers to the lifting by the Government of the new Foreign Affairs Act of the separation of the certification requirements relating to who is recognised as refugees under the Refugee Convention and who is protected against return for other reasons. The Progress Party indicates that this implies that several are defined as refugees and that this also has implications for public benefits. The party of progress wanted in contrast to the Government in the treatment of Ot.prp. No 75 for 2006-2007 on the law on the access of foreigners to the kingdom and their residence here [[Law on Foreign Affairs]] The majority will only provide redundancy benefits for three months after the end of treatment/schooling, while looking for a job. The party is aware that a search process takes time, and especially when one has been away from work over a long period of time. Therefore, we believe that three months is too short and want the limit to be extended to six months. Of course, the progress party assumes that the work on returning the user to work starts at a much earlier time, i.e. before the treatment/school ring is finished. The Progress Party also indicates that the Government proposes that a jobseeker should be absent for one day during the reporting period, which means that one can take two days off per month. I think such a scheme is incomprehensible. The fact that job-seekers are allowed to take off in line with others in work would be entirely normal – whether they are sick or have strong welfare reasons – but that they should be able to take a break from it, does not support the Progress Party. I have problems seeing that the difference between sickness and injury is another or the same should have a bearing on the return of redundancy payments. The party to the proceedings will treat this as equivalent and considers that the right should occur as soon as the disease/injury occurs and as long as the employment has been too short for a person to be entitled to sickness benefit. It will be unsustainable to stand without any kind of income if, for example: a cancer flares up again after you have come to work, but before you have started working up the right to sickness benefit. In this context, it is proposed that the right to work clearance be reinstated when the injury or disease recurs and if the working conditions have been too short for one to recover entitlement to sickness benefits. The Progress Party does not support the elimination of redundancy benefits while the examination of the application for disability pension is under assessment. The Party considers, on the contrary, that if a decision on disability has not been completed within eight months, the individual cannot be charged for this by remaining without income. The use of punishment is, in the view of the Progress Party, a sought-after way of pushing Nav to keep its deadlines. Then it should be Nav who was punished in some way. Priority should be given to this work in order to avoid unnecessary waiting time for final decisions. We are aware that there is a shortage of income pending a final decision on disability pension with the current system. Using a time limit within which the instrument is to exclude any basis of life, as the government parties refer to in their comments, is not an acceptable method to use to achieve a shorter duration of action at Nav. In this context, proposals are being made for work clearance to run until the final decision on disability benefits has been taken. All in all, the Progress Party wants strict requirements for both Nav and users, but at the same time these requirements must be realistic. The Progress Party believes that the law, with the changes the Progress Party has made, will provide a good working document for both Nav and the users, and above all ensure that more people return to work faster. I am addressing the proposals that the Progress Party itself or with others has promoted in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e209	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e212	Today, Stortinget completes much of the work on the Nav reform that has been necessary. Where the Storting has previously adopted an institutional reform for the welfare system in Norway, we will today adopt what I call a content reform, leading to more individualisation and more user impact. It is a simplification that, like the Nav reform as a whole, has the potential to solve some of the greatest societal challenges of our time, namely the fact that one in four in working age today is out of work and living on different social security systems and social benefits. Although today we are adopting a change in the law that combines social security benefits, I will first mention a few words about the realities behind it: More than 700,000 people of working age are out of work today. This is a frighteningly high number. And it is particularly worrying that even at the time when there was a strong demand for labour – that is, the good years that we have left behind – you have not managed to give more people a new chance. Now, when we go into a time that will be more marked by unforeseeableness – to say it carefully, or perhaps rather problems on the labour market – unfortunately, many of those who stand far away from work will find it even more difficult. This is precisely why it is a key success criterion for Nav to follow up the decisions and assumptions made by the Stortinget with a similar cultural reform in the establishment. The changes to contribute to the better well-being and well-being of individuals are also changes for those who are to manage well-being. When I first said that the Nav reform and this legislative change have a great potential, it is unfortunately also such that there is a great height of fall for Nav in this reform. The expectations of the Nav reform have been reversed by various government councils from the current government, which have always pointed to the reform when pointing to solutions in the areas of welfare challenges, poverty problems and other areas. Nevertheless, we know that we have a very high level of sick leave in Norway, which is alarmingly much higher than in many other countries with which it is natural to compare. We have a large number of people who receive disability benefits. Just like that, we often don't know because the individual wants to do it. They like to have the same desires as very many others, they want to work. Unfortunately, we know countless examples of people with disabilities being offered disability benefits instead of a rehabilitation scheme that enables them to take advantage of their working capacity. I could continue to give such examples, because the list is long. But this post is not meant for it. The point, however, is that these are problems which may almost exist unimpeded by the reforms and assumptions adopted by the Storting and the decisions taken. These are issues that are not solved by legislative changes or enlargement messages, but by changes in culture and personnel management in the welfare apparatus we are talking about. I expect the Council of State and the Government to follow closely when the new law is to be transposed. So for the redundancy money. The new social security benefits are a concrete follow-up to previous decision-making on Nav reform and on work, welfare and inclusion. Right-wing supports the Government's proposals with some exceptions, for some are more significant than others. Together with the Progress Party and the Left, the Right wants the new performance to be called clarification money. After all, the whole intention of the amendment is that each recipient should receive an individual follow-up plan that identifies the need for assistance, qualification schemes and job prospects. In this, of course, there will be recipients who are not cleared for leaving the labour market, but rather cleared for disability pension. I would like to stress that this is also part of the overall objective of laying the line of work on the ground. I record that the government wants a system that legitimizes absence, and I have to admit that this is a little funny. In the opinion of the Committee, the majority of the parties are as follows: ‘The reason for this provision is that most participants in labour market measures are in full-time action and that, like employees, they – this is my emphasis – ‘have a need to ask for leave of work in order to carry out private tasks that can only be carried out on a daily basis’. What's interesting in this quote is the inconsistent comparison of the majority with employees, because in the rest of the world, it's not that you can get free every fourteen days for well-being or other things. I support, of course, the majority's comparison with ordinary work, but a logical consequence of such a comparison must be that the recipient of redundancy benefits is subject to the same expectations of working time as in the workplace. The redundancy benefits are defined in the Act as a benefit for lost income. I therefore do not share the majority’s reasons when they say that recipients should be entitled to one day’s absence during a 14-day period because they need to ask for leave of work in order to ‘exercise private tasks’, as it is called. Perhaps the majority should explain the tasks involved in this case, and the way in which this differs from the tasks that employees otherwise have to adapt to a working day. Together with the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, we have therefore promoted an alternative legal text, which tightens the possibility of absenteeism to apply only to strong well-being grounds to be documented. In this context, it is expected that health follow-up and other aspects, which are an important part of the clearing work, are things that are included in the individual follow-up of each recipient of the clearing money and are not affected by a narrowing of the possibility of absenteeism. The most central point of the Nav reform is, in my view, a stronger individual orientation. Each consignee shall be provided with a tailor-made action plan. This is positive, and I would also like to say it is good that the principle that the Right has long stood for in social policy on tailoring, now has become political all-round. Nevertheless, it seems that for some reason the majority of the parties are draining the water. As a consequence of individual orientation, user involvement, or user power, as some in the majority parties may call it. One must not only receive a tailor-made scheme, but must also be based on the individual's wishes, experience and own assessments. In this interaction, the procedure is necessarily central, and the Right, together with the Progress Party and the Left, therefore, has a proposal that strengthens the right of users to participate in the selection of case handlers. I believe that the wording of the law should initially form the basis for a positive angle towards this target group to which the law is intended to apply, by establishing procedures and mechanisms to pick out cases similar to those described by the majority, which argue that a law on the right to replace case handlers can be abused by the user. Such cases may occur, but the law should be shaped around the intent of user involvement, not user prevention. I would also like to say a few words about the children's supplement. When the Bondevik II government introduced the temporary zero-tire system, the reactions of the red-green batches were strong in relation to the child supplement. The current Social Policy Spokesman for the Workers' Party, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, said in the Dagsavisen on 7 September 2004: ‘This is a scheme of significantly impaired benefits compared to normal disability benefits. In particular, these families of children are affected because the rates for children’s allowances are incredibly low.’ Today, we adopt a social security benefit that is broadly comparable to temporary disability benefit, as intended, both in terms of performance and in terms of child allowances. It is tempting to ask the representatives of the red-green parties what has happened in the assessment of the child supplement, because what would previously be considered child poverty is now well-being. Of course, it is allowed to change — it is even affordable sometimes, I would say — but it must nevertheless be allowed to point out that there has been a complete turnaround on the part of the government parties. I am very pleased about that in many ways, and I hope that we can therefore release such caricatured distortions of each other's motives in welfare policy in the future. I am addressing the proposal that the Right is promoting together with the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e258	The representative Per-Kristian Foss has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e261	The law we're dealing with today has as a starting point that it's going to be easier for users and easier for Nav. It is part of the overall shift in labour and welfare policy with the establishment of the Nav reform and with simpler legislation. There's been a little discussion about the name of the benefit we're now going to get. I have to say that I think it's a minimum problem if it's called one or the other. I also want to stress at the beginning of my article all the messages we get that Nav wears. Now we have increased Nav's budget in such a way that they are able to spend several hours assisting people and processing applications, but nevertheless, in my opinion, it is a far greater concern than what this child should be called. I once again stress what I said in my contribution to the budget debate, that it is important that the Council of States now closely monitor and possibly come to Stortinget if there is a need for new measures to improve the functioning of the Nav reform, because there are still critically many places. The matter is about getting proper assistance at the right time, and then it is both a benefit to live off and help get into work and activity. There are different stages in which a person is in such a situation that he needs work clearance. It shows the three benefits that we're now replacing this one with. This means that the requirements of the period must be adapted to the user. I most need to say a little about the time-limited unpaid pay, because some of the main problem with it was that you did not get a follow-up while walking on a temporary unpaid payroll, which was in principle a time when you would see if you could get back to work. Unfortunately, few of them did. One of the reasons for that is that you didn't get any kind of follow-up of Nav, and it's being corrected right now. It is also important to stress that the entry criteria for fixed-term unpaid pay were the same as for the non-entry fee, and thus it is also likely that many of them are so ill that they qualify for unpaid pay. The majority suggest that no statutory assessment of the duration of the measures should be carried out each year, as part of the opposition wishes. We believe it is very important to add the assessment made by Nav and its users to the activity plan. This is a matter of course to be considered regularly, but it is wrong if you think that everyone is so similar that it fits every year for everyone. It violates the whole intention of the proposal on how we think we should work on this now. The job performance assessment is important. It's important for Nav, but it's also incredibly important for the individual, so that you're able to make legitimate choices in your own life and maybe reorient yourself to thoughts you've had before. But it is also important that this reorientation takes place in such a way that the individual accepts this, or the sea finds out of the new road, and that one does not become discouraged in that work. There has been some discussion about registration cards, and I support what the case rapporteur said about it. There's reason to look at this further, how it's being practiced, and there's also something Nav and the Council of State have to come back to if there's parts of the reporting card system that don't work properly and can be simplified over time. But now we see how this works. And then I also want to say that it's not like the majority say that you have the right to absence one day. But what we're saying is that you shouldn't automatically have shifts in performance in case of absence one day. Once again, I want to draw attention to the fact that these are people who are in some difficult situations in life, and who may need other needs than what we have. They can have good explanations without necessarily pointing to specific reasons here. When it comes to changing case handlers, this does not mean that you should be able to choose a case handler, as Per-Kristian Foss said, but the point here is that we, the majority, also encourage Nav to be flexible, and that this is also a question you might have to come back to when you see the experience with this. It's not a principal resistance, it's a practical resistance, but Nav has to establish good practices on this sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e282	The design of the Code on Clearance of Work becomes a balance between the fact that persons should actually have an incentive to seek work and the need to ensure a reasonable economic basis for each individual. Activity and participation responsibilities shall be required as a prerequisite for being under the plan. At the same time, however, the requirements shall not be more destructive than constructive and in addition create unnecessary public bureaucracy. The Committee agrees a great deal with the practical balances between these considerations. On some points, there is disagreement. The question of the frequency with which registration cards are to be sent is one such point, where I think that the majority could follow the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, and freed resources in Nav from the administration to the follow-up of each. The Christian People's Party also opposes the tightening-up of government parties for which, in terms of the number of months for which a person can go on redundancy payments after completion of resettlement pending work. We don't think people are waiting for the longest time to find work after finishing if they have the opportunity. But we think that some people may have a real need to have a sense of security that income is stable for at least six months after reintroduction, while they are looking for suitable work. With the development that we are now seeing in the labour market, there is even less reason to make this contraction. I strongly doubt that this is a cut that the Workers' Party and SV would accept if it had been proposed by another government. The system of temporary unpaid pay was introduced by the previous government of 2004, when with pay-up rules and social security rules similar to those applicable to the other short-term benefits. Low-income dependants and many children came out poorly. It was a profile that the Christian People's Party seemed to be demanding to defend, and we were therefore very pleased when the Bondevik government proposed to go back to the need-tested child supplement scheme in the budget it provided before it left in the fall of 2005. The transition from a need-tested to a standardised child supplement used Prime Minister Stoltenberg as evidence of so-called non-social decisions under the previous government. Today's argument has been reversed on your head: ‘The majority believe that the need for testing in this context will be unnecessarily complicated and may result in a severe reduction in the economic profitability of increased labour income, increasing the risk of creating ‘studies’.’ It is tempting to quote what Bjarne Håkon Hanssen said in the 2005 election: ‘The government’s conclusion seems to be that if you only do it badly enough to be unemployed or unemployed, more people will go to work.’ So I guess the government parts will show that after all, the children's supplement has increased by $10 per cent. the day since the previous election. That's right. At the same time, the basic amount, to which the tested child supplement is linked, has also increased. In total, this means that the maximum reduction in income per person per person. when changing from a test of need to a standardised child supplement is now almost NOK 21 100. I am pleased with the signal given by the case rapporteur, to keep looking at the level. The Christian People's Party realises that when different benefits are combined, the child supplement legislation cannot be different depending on what would be the performance of the old system. But we're still concerned with emphasising and caring for social concerns about the child supplement. Therefore, we propose that the Government assess the exact relationship between needs testing and standardised child supplements. It's interesting, especially in the light of previous fresh statements, that the government parties will not even agree to such an assessment. I take this up with me the proposal that the Christian People's Party is promoting in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e310	The representative Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e314	This is a follow-up to St.meld. No 9 for 2006–2007, Work, well-being and inclusion. The left supports the intention of introducing redundancy payments to facilitate early and closer follow-up of recipients, thus contributing to the return of more people to work. This is agreed by an overall committee. The left has always felt that the Nav reform should be a simplification reform – a simplification for the user. Therefore, it is a little difficult to understand that one does not follow this up with simple things, such as the name of the scheme itself, redundancy payments, which could easily have been clarification money. The left agrees that the purpose of the redundancy allowance is to ensure the income of persons receiving active treatment, to take part in a job-oriented action or to have another follow-up with a view to obtaining or maintaining employment. It may not be the state of health in itself that is essential, but that the ability to work is reduced for a long period of time or lastingly and that the recipient is to be assessed in relation to any work he or she is able to do. The left has little faith in rigid systems and rules, but instead wants some flexibility that will more stimulate the recipients to get into work. For this reason, the Left considers that there is an absence up to one day per year. the period of notification and absence due to disease shall not lead to a reduction in performance. Like the rest of the Committee, the Left agrees that redundancy benefits and additional social benefits should be provided for as long as required, so that a person can carry out the necessary activity with a view to getting into work, but not beyond four years. Furthermore, one is pleased that the Government is making a complete turnaround and proposes to abolish the distinction between private sector employees and public sector employees, so that private sector employees also have the right to receive disability benefits from their occupational pension schemes while receiving redundancy benefits. It is obvious that close and close dialogue between etat and users is important. A Joint Committee also points out that the needs of the individual are to be at the heart of the follow-up and that the frequency of meetings or contacts depends on this. Therefore, I find it a little difficult to understand that the majority of the committee does not see that the interaction between the user and the case handler is so important that one must have the opportunity to change the case handler when required. In the last report by Arbeid and well-being, there will be, among other things, has been shown to have increased from the early 1990s to the present period from 8 to 11 pst. It is pointed out in the light of demographic changes and partly of labour market conditions and changes in rules in the field of disability. This is before today's financial turmoil, and much indicates that Nav will be even more important for what we have ahead of us. We're getting more and more tools in the Nav box. It's also become more transparent, so it's a simplification. As many have been in the past, the expectations of the Nav reform are great. Former State Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen said in an interview that Nav is struggling, and so did the head of the committee in a previous post. Yes, the Council of State has no doubt a responsibility. The shooter is rigged in many ways, but the crew demands the skipper.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e337	In this proposition, the Government has made proposals for legislative changes to replace current rehabilitation, restitution and temporary unpaid pay by a new temporary social security allowance. We propose that the new benefit be called redundancy pay. The proposal follows up one of the main actions of St.meld. No 9 for 2006–2007, Work, well-being and inclusion. The legislative proposal facilitates the early and closer follow-up of users and aims to help more people get to work faster. The new performance provides economic security. Simplification of legislation has also been stressed, and it should be clear to users what rights and obligations they have. The State of employment and welfare shall be able to use more resources for the relevant and labour-oriented follow-up of each user, and less resources to determine the life-stay performance to which each person qualifies. In those cases where work is not an alternative, a rapid clarification shall be provided in relation to any right to disability pension. It is proposed that redundancy payments and social benefits to cover additional costs resulting from the implementation of labour-oriented measures, additional benefits, be granted to persons who have had their working capacity reduced to such an extent as to prevent them from obtaining or retaining gainful employment. Recruitment benefits shall be granted to persons who have reduced their working capacity by at least half. Furthermore, it shall be a condition that the person must be in need of assistance in order to be able to obtain or retain work that he or she can do. Everyone receiving the benefits shall have an obligation to contribute actively in the process of getting into work. The benefits shall be provided for as long as it is necessary to carry out the necessary activity with a view to getting into service, but no longer than four years. In addition, when granting the benefit, it shall determine the time at which the seat of employment and welfare, together with the beneficiary, shall assess whether the established follow-up gives the desired progress to get into work. The principal performance shall be calculated in the same way as the current performance and shall be 66 pst. by the basis of calculation. The minimum annual performance shall, as a general rule, be 1,97 G but 2,44 G for young disabled persons. A standardised child supplement shall be provided to all dependants. The benefits shall be reduced against hours worked in gainful activities. We also propose that redundancy benefits should be paid to parents, and that disability benefits under the Occupational Pensions Act should start to run 12 months after the loss of income. We also propose that all those who contact the local Nav office, who want or need assistance to get to work, have the right to assess their needs for assistance. The user shall receive a written assessment of his/her ability to get to work, the need for assistance and the aim and direction of any assistance. The user shall be able to appeal against the assessment. In addition, it is proposed that the user should participate in the design of a specific plan for how he/she operates through different measures, treatment arrangements, self-activity, etc. shall come into operation and shall be called the activity plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e358	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e361	In ordinary criminal law and in the ordinary sense of law, the offender or the person who fails to do what is to be done within the time limits set is the person who is being punished or held liable. For the duration of treatment at Nav, pending clarification as to whether he is entitled to disability benefit, the bill states that the opposite is the case. My question is, what kind of advanced logic is that it's the user who's going to be punished if Nav doesn't do his job?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e370	It is important to bear in mind that the time for maintaining performance has increased. However, we believe that it is right to have a deadline that ensures that a final decision is taken on the question of disability, and believe, as both the rapporteur and the committee leader have pointed out, that it is right to put pressure on Nav to actually answer the individual user – that matters should not remain in the Nav system for a long time. That is why we believe that a deadline is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e375	Many objections were raised during the hearing to reducing redundancy payments in waiting time for work, so that they are now only given for three months. The Christian People's Party shares the concern of others. The job prospects for the next year do not look as bright as they were just a short time ago, and many have to start looking for a job before taking part in job-oriented measures or other follow-up is completed. For others, it will take time to provide the job in a good and practical way so that you can make full use of your working capacity. My question to the Council of State is then: does the Council of State see that these relationships may take a little more time, or is it such that one really believes that an extension to six months will only lead to a postponement of seeking work?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e384	Yes, a general extension of six months I think could serve as a bad inspiration to get back to work quickly. We believe that it is important, when you have been through the entire course of which there is a broad consensus in the Storting that you should go through, to keep the momentum as it is that once that process has ended, you have to get back to work as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e389	Instead, I did not get an answer to what I asked for. I got a review of what the Council of State thought about this, and the answer that I received was a long way to go. I would have preferred, of course, that you did not have those deadlines. But my question was, what kind of advanced logic is it that makes you punish the user when Nav doesn't do his job?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e396	To the extent that the representative thought my answer was unclear, it may have been based on the fact that the representative referred to the penal code – which I may not think is the right reference for an offer in the welfare community for which there is broad political agreement. However, we believe that it is important for both the user and Nav to have a deadline, which makes it clear that within that time limit the matter must have been resolved and the user has received his response. No one has earned that deadline – not the user and not those who have the obligation to deliver in Nav.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e403	The Christian People's Party is set to increase resources in Nav, so that users can be better followed up. I am aware that there are 14-day reporting periods that are current practice, but in the situation we now have, today's practice cannot be an independent argument in itself. I would like to ask the Council of State: does he think that the benefit both for the individual user and for Nav is so great by keeping current practice that it itself makes the simplification that the opposition has proposed by going over to monthly reporting periods, inappropriate to assess?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e410	I think I'm going to be able to start this answer by saying how happy I am that the big questions in this reform are the broad consensus of which several of the representatives have been involved – and that suggests the issues of disagreement that we are left with. I am very pleased that we can carry out such an important welfare reform with this degree of consensus. So to the question. Dealing with a historical period of 14 days and providing the necessary information is immediately more transparent than if one were to do so each month. This may be possible for each individual — if one after one month would go back in the last month’s activities and explain details there. But I do not therefore reject the fact that we can assess the kind of issues in a joint effort to constantly improve a reform on which there is a broad consensus. There is no ideological difference between 14 days and a month, as both the rapporteur and the chairman of the committee have pointed out. That's a practical question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e418	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e421	Ot. pp. No 4 on redundancy benefits, work performance assessments and activity plans is an important step in the fight against poverty and an absolutely necessary step towards achieving the line of work. We have started and soon completed the implementation of the Nav reform: bringing together social security offices, employment offices and social services to one door where there were three. No more users are going to be throwing balls between the systems, and we're going to have a new focus. One of them looked for faults, and one of them now has to look for possibilities. Where a prior detailed legislation was followed, a subsequent one shall be more relevant to local judgement. Those who know the user and the local labour market must make more decisions themselves with the individual user, at the user's discretion, not the legislation. The Nav reform is accompanied by arctic eyes and has so far been the subject of some negative attention. Some have experienced the opposite of what was intention. Measures have therefore been put in place to maintain production during a period of large internal migration. But the Nav reform is not on its own. In addition to a significant administrative conversion, new work tools and new working methods are required. In St. Report. No 9 for 2006-2007 on work, well-being and inclusion, the Government outlined significant simplifications in the current social welfare system and in the action legislation. The aim was to simplify the user’s choice, which would be achieved through a reduction of the administrative burden by simplifying the procedure and opening up individual plans to users’ preferences. In today’s system, it has until now been such that if you have sick pay, you will receive primary medical care. The same applies to rehabilitation money. In the case of reinsurance, you will have access to all labour market measures. Thus, with a time-limited zero-tire rate, active measures have not been required at all. In terms of daily allowances, you get labour market measures, a little depending on your status, and social assistance gives you very much random opportunities for action. The Storing Message outlined four main actions for a better user follow-up: simplifications in the social welfare system improvement of the package of measures non-temporary pay-as-you-go programmes for those with little or no rights in the public interest Main operations 3 and 4 are in place. Temporary wage subsidies have been introduced throughout the country according to a testing scheme in five counties. The number of places is doubled from 2009 and the scheme is intended for those who would otherwise end up in a disability pension. The Qualification Programme is in place where the Nav offices have arrived and is being phased into step with the reform. So now it's the turn of the social security system and the action code. A week and a half ago, the main piece was in place. When the Government adopted a new regulation with a new and better regulation for labour market measures, which is no longer the type of benefit, the needs of users will govern the measures they are given access to. All types of measures become available to all types of job seekers. Today, we get the main measure 1, simplifications in the social welfare system, in place. Thus, the main system barriers for users to enter or return to work are cleared by the road. This applies to all users, including refugees, who, of course, need special rules to be able to keep up with everyone else. I'm just as sad every time the Progress Party doesn't let a single chance go from itself to hacking refugees. I think the Progress Party could keep up too well. This issue is about a fair system for all those within Norway's borders. In the end, I want to turn this over to something a little bit more positive. I am quite impressed by the pace of the Government regarding these major reforms that have come on current ties in the current period. So now we're just waiting to be equally impressed by the results, and I'm sure we're going to be. The last little, scarce minute I could imagine using to answer the question from Per-Christian Foss: what happened to the assessment of the child supplement? Per-Kristian Foss would like answers from some red-green politicians. Now I wasn't here in the last period, but in the election campaign we used the argument that Per-Christian Foss referred to, because what it was worth, and said with find and emphasis that it was unsocial. What happened to the children's supplement, ask Per-Kristian Foss. Nothing has happened to the child supplement, but something has happened to the users. Temporary unpaid pay was a passive benefit without the right to action, actually a waiting room for a disability pension and at all a strange social benefit that didn't take people anywhere. But now they are integrated into a new, active set-up where they provide with the same starting point as everyone else in terms of redundancy payments.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e451	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 203]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e467	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given to post from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e476	Today we are discussing a proposal from the Progress Party on a change in the coordination law. The law relates to the coordination of social security benefits with public gross occupational pensions. The Coordination Act was introduced in 1959, when the need to test the age of age at that time was lifted, in order to ensure that no one received a double pension. The coordination deduction is made in the occupational pension scheme. The old age pension, and later the popular pension, is paid in full. It's a practical arrangement and it doesn't matter to the individual pensioner. What matters is how much the subtraction actually becomes, and there are some differences. The basic pension in popular security is deducted by 75 pst. of the basic amount. So part of the basic pension is excluded, and it's equal to everyone. Then it's the supplementary pension of the people's fear. How much is going to be subtracted there? Yes, it depends on the individual's service history. The general rule is that the entire supplementary pension is deducted, but not always. If you have had income that is only a pensioner in the social security system, that part shall be excluded – the requirement of parallelity. If you have had pensionable income before or after employment in the public sector, that part must also be excluded – the requirement of co-ordination. In 1962, a group of state pensioners demanded that, despite the law on the opposite, they should have double pensions, old-age pensions and state pensions, without coordination. The Supreme Court rejected the claim and indicated that the coordination deduction from the occupational pension would be replaced in full in the paid-up old-age pension, later in the population. That's also what's going on. No one gets less than full compensation. People's rights are paid in full, so everyone actually gets a little bit more when parts of the basic pension are kept out. There are also those who get more than a little bit more, because part of the supplementary pension from the population's rights is also excluded from coordination. And who is it? It's e.g. public servants widows who were partially depended on by the spouse, a pattern that was not so unusual in the past. The income-tested survivor's pension of social security guarantees all depended spouses against falling too much into the standard of living at the time of the spouse's death. We who had to become a widow are at work and serve as well or better than the spouse, get nothing extra from the social security, even as pensioners. We take care of ourselves and we don't need it. But whoever's been wholly or partly cared for by a spouse needs it. We can call it the solidarity supplement of popular fear, a positive arrangement for the survivors. An age-retired widow receives the supplemental pension that is best – her own or 55 pst. of the sum of the own and spouse. If you then work in the public sector, there's another favorable rule. If you have an additional pension from popular security, one part of which is inherited from a deceased spouse because the spouse earned more, the difference between self-earning and inherited supplementary pension is also excluded from coordination. All other self-earned state and municipal pensioners are deducted from the full supplementary pension. So we're really talking about a positive effect of inherited supplementary pension. You will receive more than full compensation when the supplementary pension from the population benefit is coordinated with your own occupational pension from the state or municipality. Some people think the positive effect is too small. They want the entire inherited supplementary pension to be excluded from coordination, calling it a negative effect of having earned their own money that there is only the difference that is being excluded today. I should have seen that. The income from living is higher when you have earned your own money, your occupational pension is higher, and you have a more favourable coordination than other state pensioners with the same amount in supplementary pension but who have earned everything by themselves. If someone was going to talk about the negative effect, it was actually those who have earned up their entire supplementary pension themselves. But no one has yet said that they envy these widows the small advantage. It could have quickly changed if the difference had become even greater, by the entire inherited portion of the supplementary pension, 55 pst. or more, would be excluded from coordination. Some people still believe that we need to discriminate against these widows more. Some of the widows also believe it themselves, and claim it's about jus. The Progress Party therefore supports them in its legislative proposal. It's a political stance and has nothing to do with law. Politically, the Progress Party alone stands to make the positive effect of the coordination law on those left behind more than it already is. I leave it to the Progress Party itself to explain its views, as indicated in the proposal for a representative. The other parties declare that the proposal is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e495	We in the Progress Party would like to explain our views. The issue is really – very simply told – about the negative effect that arises. And how does that effect occur? Well, it occurs in cases where the widow or widower may lose out on earned own pension points when the pension is coordinated with the retirement of the deceased spouse. Lise Christoffersen in his article called for an account, and she shall have an account. A deceased man had earned an additional pension of NOK 60,000 per year. years, and the widow, who had worked for 30 years in the state, has earned a full pension. As long as she is less than 67 years old, she does not receive a self-earned supplementary pension from popular security, and she is not affected by the error. Then she becomes 67 years old and gets paid self-esteem in the fear of the people. It gives a paid-out effect of $22,000 per. years. Since she has already earned a full self-employment pension, she will have nothing more, and proper coordination would depend on her getting a so-called co-ordination deduction in the state pension of NOK 22 000, and she will not benefit from self-employment in the social security system. In other words, social security is increasing by $22,000, and the state pension is reduced by the same amount. The net result is going to be NOK 0 in this example. The government and the ministry have found that they can reduce the state pension by NOK 40000, resulting in a negative effect where the widow in this case loses NOK 18000. In these cases, the Progress Party now wants to make changes. It's in these cases that we want to get rid of this injustice and this abomination -- as I see it. Most people who are hit by this are women. On two occasions, both in 1989 and 1992, the size of the population has provided large compensations to correct large parts of the negative effect. Furthermore, it is still a good part that is affected by negative effects, and it is to this group that we now want to correct. In 2001, Stortinget decided to correct this. It's been seven years without the Storting doing anything about it. Two governments have been sitting without having implemented this matter. I would also like to remind you that on 14 May 2002, Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik said that it was the government’s ‘condemned duty’ to follow-up the decision of the magnificence. Where does the Government's obligation in this case lead to follow-up of the decision to raise the issue? Is it a quick handling that it has now taken seven years? With respect to reporting, I don't think it seems like a fast and good procedure. In addition, I would like to refer to the National Audit Office's opinions in Document No. 1 for 2008-2009, where it says: ‘The Court of Auditors notes that, over a 15-year period, the Storting has addressed the problem of some occupational pensioners losing their rights to include supplementary pension rights in the provision of social security, so-called a negative effect. The National Audit Office has noted that the Ministry will assess the coordination in its work on pension reform. The resolution of the issues has taken a long time, and many pensioners have not received the benefits originally provided by the Stortinget. It is therefore possible to ask questions as to whether the progress of the work so far has been in line with the assumptions of the Storting.» It is quite clear from the Riksrevision that it has been expected here that this matter should have been implemented a long time ago. I will also be allowed to take advantage of the opportunity to quote something from what Steinar Gullvåg writes in Tønsberg's magazine on June 7, 2008: ‘It is strange that most of those who take part in the case recognise that current coordination rules seem unreasonable and should therefore be dealt with. The chin is that it costs a few dollars." That's enough of it: you're more concerned with saving some money than you are with these pensioners getting their legitimate pension rights. And then he goes on to say, ‘It happens when matters are put to the fore, that we will have to vote against proposals that we are actually in favour of, because we vote as party groups and not according to individual opinions.’ I would recommend that Gullvåg vote in accordance with his convictions, and request that he allow the party of the Workers' Party to lie down. With this I mention our proposal in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e530	The representative Robert Eriksson has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e533	No one shall be able to claim that the coordination legislation is simple and transparent. Not all consequences of coordination are always as easy to explain. However, in total, it remains clear that public service pension schemes are a good thing for all those covered by them. 66 pst. final salary is a good retirement benefit. For the specific group covered by the coordination exemption that we are discussing today, the difference of 55 pst. of supplementary combined pension and supplementary self-earned pension — in addition, they in any case receive an even higher benefit than those 66 psts. The Christian People's Party also has difficulties in understanding how the proposals of the Progress Party in this matter can actually be implemented in practice. There have been thorough investigations into the issue since the 2001 request decision. It has been concluded that change of practice is not feasible without legislative changes. And various legislative changes have been evaluated, but it is concluded that either it would be to the detriment of several of those who have been involved in this matter, or it would create new injustices to other groups. I find it difficult to see that even more rounds in this case could give a different result. On this basis, the Christian People's Party also supports the position of rejecting the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e548	The proposed law concerns the amendment of the law on coordination and is specifically concerned with the coordination between public service pensions and the combined supplementary pension from the social security system. The public sector occupational pension schemes ensure that all government employees receive an old-age and disability pension, self-pension, of at least 66 pst. of the final salary at full vesting time. Social security pensions and pensions are adapted to each other through coordination. The coordination implies full payment of pensions from public funds, while reducing occupational pensions through a coordination deduction. Since the introduction of popular protection in 1967, several aspects of coordination have been criticised by different teams, and one of the areas in which it has been most focused is precisely co-ordination with the combined supplementary pension. In this context, too, there has been a negative impact, and it is produced in such a way that coordination loses its ability to earn its own supplementary pension. It must be noted that current coordination is in accordance with the rules in force. It was established by the Supreme Court as early as 1994. As a result, no one is paid too little in relation to the current provisions. Current public sector occupational pensions must be considered good. No person receives a total age or disability pension lower than 66 pst. of the final salary. I would also like to stress that there is no one who loses in the total pension to receive a combined supplementary pension. They also always get a total pension at least equal to the self-earned pension, which in turn will always be at least equal to the gross guarantee of 66 pst. of the final salary. For me, it has always been important in this case to clarify whether someone loses financially on having been in work and earn their own supplementary pension. Based on the review I've done, I can't see that that's the case. I have also not seen any examples of someone not having a positive effect on having a combined supplementary pension. Pensioners who have combined supplementary pensions benefit from coordination on an ongoing basis than those who have only self-earned pensions. My conclusion, therefore, is that there is no basis for changing the coordination rules at that point. I note that the proposers, who are also the minority in this case, have made it clear in the vote that the proposal is to be understood in such a way that a desire for coordination for this group, which means that no deduction is made for more than the self-sufficiency of the population's rights is increasing. No person shall be deducted from the occupational pension for an amount higher than the self-sufficiency in social security constitutes or increases. The issue of so-called negative effects has now occurred for nearly 20 years. It's been thoroughly investigated many times. The Court of Justice concluded, almost 15 years ago, that coordination in these cases is in accordance with the law. The matter has been raised and dealt with in Stortinget several times. I see the conclusion of the great majority as a necessary clarification of the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e571	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e574	An old saying says that it is not easy to imagine a farmer that the fox lays eggs. The Council of State sent a letter to the Committee on 18 November saying what he is repeating from the pulpit today that no one is losing coordination. But if it is that there are no losers, why can't the government support our proposal? And if it is that there are no losers, why is it that the ministry believes that implementing our proposal will involve a significant extra cost? That extra cost should not have come if there is no one who loses already today. For me, it seems that the Council of State has not realized that there are two very different arrangements we are talking about here – to which it has been paid in, and from which it is to be paid.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e585	As the rapporteur also explained in detail, we are talking about cases where a supplementary combined pension ends up with a retirement benefit that is in most cases significant over what you have in self-earned pension. In this is that no loss is made in relation to a self-earned pension. A typical performance rate for those with a combined supplementary pension will be between 75 pst. and 80 pst. of the salary you had then ended. The tick in the proposal for the Progress Party is that some of those who come out well with today's system could get a full benefit up to 95 pst. 95 pst. is higher than 78 pst, but there is no loss in terms of self-earned pension.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e592	I want to challenge the Council of State further on what he's raising here, because what he's concentrating on is only his own supplementary pension that's earned. He obviously does not want to touch at all that this has been paid into a pension scheme a survivor's share to secure income in the event of one's retirement. That's in these cases and with the problem you lose. And when you look at the coordination deductions, it's quite obvious that the group we're talking about in this proposal gets a larger deduction than what's their own additional earnings. Will the Council of State change the coordination deduction so that all receive the same coordination deductions, based on the understanding and practice of the coordination law?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e600	This matter has now been discussed – as I and others have said – repeatedly for many years. I myself have been involved in the question before I became the Council of State, among others. been in close contact with the action committee and went into the matter on the basis that I think it is unreasonable that someone should lose a pension on having been in work. I've invited the Action Committee to bring in numbers from people they're in contact with, who can prove that someone actually gets less who left than what they have in self-earned retirement. There's no such thing. When the representative now asks me if I will come back with the matter again, I must remind you that the Stortinget also dealt with this matter in the light of the Bondevik government's proposal for a revised national budget in 2003. In spite of that, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen has taken up and I have continued to review the matter, and the conclusion is therefore as it is now in my letter, in line with the position of the majority of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e607	No more words have been asked for a line. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e610	In conclusion, I would like to say that I am very disappointed by the rhetoric of both the Council of State and the representative of Christoffersen in his main post as rapporteur of the case, where one deliberately concentrates on one pension scheme and does not look at both pension schemes. It is precisely when you see both plans in context, you can see that there is a small group of women who are affected by negative effects. I think it's a pity that we in this room have a clear majority who say that you don't intend to change it, but that you still accept that some women should be discriminated against in respect of pension rights. I had not dreamed in my wildest imagination that parties such as the SV and the Workers' Party should be the ones who stood for this discrimination. It is also true, as the Council of State says, that this matter has been dealt with a number of times. It's been investigated. But Stortinget – and that is what is clouded here – decided in 2001 to remove the negative impact on the group we are talking about in this proposal. Seven years have passed – with two governments – without the effectiveness of the decision. The government's predecessor in the current government, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, also said that this should be seen in the context of the pension reform. There was nothing in the pension reform about negative effects. Nor when proposals were made for a new age law, was there any negative impact. In our remarks in the vote, we point out that the Norwegian Pensioners' Association has asked for an explanation of twelve points, but they have not yet, I know, received a response from the Ministry. Why can't you just answer these questions? If this is done and you have clear answers, you should at least be able to give the Storting the answers. But the thing is – as I experience it – that you don't intend to change this, you don't intend to give people the right that they have earned. Once again, at the end of the day, I would like to remind you that two different pension schemes have been paid in here, two different considerations to be taken into account. One applies, among other things. loss of income at the death of the spouse. And in that area, the Council of State is not in the vicinity of giving an answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e625	I don't think it can be undisputed when the Progress Party goes on and on again, both in posts and in lines, today's coordination rules appear to be losing. That's wrong. There's someone who's winning. And when the representative Robert Eriksson says that the majority – all the other parties in this room – have a discriminatory attitude towards women, I think it falls in some way on their own unfairness. I felt the need to take the floor because the Femskrit party put a regulatory smoke over what the matter was really about, and turned the whole thing upside down. It is therefore true that the coordination legislation for persons who are members of the State Pension Fund and who are being left behind provides an advantage for the survivors who serve less than deceased spouses, precisely to ensure that the survivors do not fall very much into the standard of living when the spouse falls off, because they have been wholly or partly depended on by the spouse. It's largely a generational phenomenon. For those who earn the same amount as the spouse, it is coordinated as for everyone else with a self-earned supplementary pension in the social security system if they lose their spouse. I can take myself as an example. Before I started at Stortinget, I was a member of the Staten Pensionkasse. I make about the same thing as my roommate. He also pays to the people's security, who have a survivor's share. If he were to fall from, I could theoretically say that half of my supplementary pension is actually earned by him, for he has paid in to the population in the time he was working. And then I would have a more favourable coordination than a lonely person who is a member of the State Pension Fund and, like me, has paid everything myself to the State Pension Fund, and has paid all of it for the people's rights. What the Progress Party is really proposing here is that those like me, who have been so lucky to have a partner, or those who have been married, are to be coordinated more favourably than lonely, who have had exactly the same income, and who have paid in just as much. That is the reality of this matter. We have a positive effect for those who need something extra to maintain the standard of living after they've been left behind, and neither of us should envy them. But we are not going to extend it to ensure that everyone has more favourable coordination rules. In fact, we have a positive effect in the coordination rules today for survivors who have earned less than their spouse. That's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e640	I took the word, like the representative Christoffersen, to comment on the fact that we should not have taken account of the different payments here. That's completely wrong. It is precisely by taking the starting point and comparing the total benefits that a person takes into account both the sum of the payment bases and the coordination that takes place. So in any case, it's better than a self-earned pension. That's taking into account both payments. Then there's a certain logic in which the representative of Christoffersen had in mind, that when a person who is left to have compensation for the care he has had in the past, the need for that compensation is less if one has had a large income himself, i.e. being partially depended on or equally depended on, as the representative of Christoffersen gave an example. I agree that seven years is a long time. As I said, the previous government mentioned the matter in the revised budget in 2003, and the Stortinget did not come to any other conclusion. I agree that seven years is a long time, and five years is also a long time. Although the matter was dealt with in the revised budget in 2003, my predecessor, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, raised the matter on the basis of enquiries from the Action Committee, and he has gone into the matter thoroughly. I have done it myself, long before I became the Council of State. It did – and I can admit it now – that I delayed this matter from June/July and until my letter went to Stortinget, because I wanted the arguments of the Action Committee to be further tested, both in conversations, in documentation and in meetings in the department with professionals, with politicians and with the Action Committee. After such a thorough review, we see that those who get a positive effect of the legislation have an additional benefit in addition to self-earned pension, and that there is no evidence that someone is getting worse than self-earned pension – on the contrary, many are coming out very well. Many of those who come out very well would have come out much better if the Progress Party's legislative proposals had been adopted. Therefore, as previously concluded, we believe that there is no basis for changing a regulatory framework that adds value to those who are part of this coordination, in addition to self-earned pensions – to a pension that initially provides a good level of performance and compensation. There are probably others who would rather need to strengthen their pension in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e653	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 217]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e669	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the State Council. In addition, the President will propose that there be three replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e678	The principles of Article 1 of the EEA Agreement on free movement of persons include the right of entry, residence and work in another Member State for nationals of an EEA country and their family members. The principle of non-discrimination prohibits discrimination against citizens from the different EEA countries on the basis of nationality. Directive 2004/38/EC concerns the right to move freely with regard to EEA citizens and their family members. It brings together and replaces previous regulations and directives in this area. The Directive brings together and replaces several acts on the freedom of movement of persons and, in addition, on the basis of the interpretations of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, much of the legal developments are regulated. The Directive clarifies EEA law and also introduces some substantive changes and administrative simplifications, in particular concerning the right of entry and residence. On 7 December 2007 the EEA Committee decided to include the Directive in the EEA Agreement, provided that the Storting consented to it. The majority agreed on 23 May 2008. Ot. pp. No 72 for 2007-2008 proposes how the Directive can be implemented in Norwegian law. This is a follow-up to the Committee's work on the rest of the Finnish Foreign Act. O. No 42 for 2007-2008, cf. Ot. pp. No 75 for 2006-2007, where relationships with EEA citizens were not discussed. Ot. pp. No 72 are also relevant to the Services Directive and mobility of services for EEA citizens and third-country nationals. I would like to point out that the majority has a positive attitude towards labour immigration from both new and old EU countries. The ruling of the European Court of Justice in the Metock case has led to reactions in several countries. Several have expressed concerns that the judgment could lead to abuse of the provisions of the EEA Agreement. We are also critical of the judgment. The issue is now being followed up by the EU Commission drawing up guidelines on how to interpret the Directive. The guidelines are expected to be presented in June 2009. The Committee has received letters from the Council of State Dag Terje Andersen, dated 28 November and 8 December of this year. The letters state that the Government will follow the processes in the EU closely. In the light of these letters, the majority would propose clarification of the regulatory body in the first sentence of Section 110, fifth paragraph, of any adjustments or restrictions resulting from the Commission’s interpretative guidelines for the Directive. The majority ask the Government to assess whether there is a need for regulatory changes in order to avoid abuse of the provisions of the EEA Agreement and to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner. The majority consider it important to ensure that the Norwegian legislation underpins such cases also in the future. We assume that persons covered by the Directive will be legally resident, and we ask the Government to take steps if the judgment remains and abuses are detected. With this I would recommend the vote by the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e702	Directive 2004/38/EC is initially an unproblematic directive according to its intentions. It was therefore also expected that this would be a directive which would go through in the Grand Duchy without much disagreement. The Progress Party also supports the intention of the so-called Housing Directive. However, after the Stortingen joined the directive this summer, the so-called Metock judgment came in the EU, which in practice sets aside significant parts of national immigration rules in EU countries. The Metock case took place in Ireland. There was a situation in which asylum seekers who had been refused residence were nevertheless able to stay under EU rules. Thus, despite a ruling in the Irish Supreme Court, they were allowed to live in Ireland as family immigrants. This is problematic. It is problematic for a number of European countries that have expressed themselves very strongly against the directive. In particular, Denmark has strongly deplored the effectiveness of the Directive, and many have pointed out that the impact of the Metock judgment was never intended. That is why initiatives have also been taken to try to amend the Directive. Last week, however, it became quite clear that the European Union has so far put down its feet, and it does not seem that, on the one hand, there are great opportunities for amending the directive – and, in particular, Denmark’s strong regret. This will also have an impact on Norway. The Directive will directly interfere with national immigration rules. There will be consequences for the notified so-called restrictions on asylum imposed by the Government to come to next year. Then this becomes very special, all the time when the Storting does not have an overview of the effects of the Metock judgment, and all the time the effects of these changes in law that we are now making on the basis of the directive are unknown. There's a bunch of important factors here that the Storing isn't familiar with. The proposition does not mention the Metock judgment, because it was made before the Metock judgment was a fact. I was the former rapporteur on this matter when we put the matter on the committee twice. I felt it necessary to withdraw as case rapporteur because the Progress Party believes that these changes are directly irresponsible, because the EU has apparently threatened Norway with so-called Article 102 procedures. Because we are not fast enough to implement directives in Norwegian legislation, Odelstinget is taking the step today – unfortunately – to implement legislative changes based on a directive that we are not aware of with the consequences. This is nothing but a direct irresponsible. Then you have to say – and I hear many people do – that you have the hope that processes in the EU will clean up this situation. But it is very difficult to see that it will be possible to do with the first one, because, as I said earlier in my post, at least in the first round, there has been a clear no from the EU. Then I think it should be a matter of course that Odelstinget now sent the matter back to the government and asked for a proper investigation, which the committee and Stortinget could decide on, rather than that it is now being pushed through irresponsiblely. Therefore, the Progress Party initially promotes a proposal to send the case back to the Government. If the proposal falls into Odelstinget, which unfortunately seems to be happening, we actually have to vote against this amendment. There is nothing the Progress Party often does in connection with the directive, but we believe that it is primarily a responsibility in relation to the laws and regulations that should apply nationally. In that case, the EEA will have a different set of considerations. I'll take up our suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e719	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e722	This case shows one of the many dilemmas of the EEA Agreement. When one signed the EEA Agreement at the beginning of the 1990s, it was very clear and defined what the EEA was all about. One looks so that one in the area by region enters new grey zones. This issue is also a consequence of the fact that there are new grey areas in which the EEA Agreement enters into national immigration policy. What is a main dilemma in this case is whether migrant workers have rights other than Norwegian citizens who want family immigration and what its consequences are. There is also some of the issue in relation to the judgments previously referred to in the debate. For this reason, it was important for the Central Party that a very clear comment was made on the fact that it is the national legislation to be based and that there should still be national policies governing the field so that one does not once again have a new field in which the EEA Agreement overrides national policies. In any case, we are pleased with the broad, overall comment on the continued dominance of national policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e729	The present legislative proposal ends a long-term work both in EFTA and here. The law will give EEA citizens and their family members the right to move and reside freely in the Member States. The proposition with the necessary additions and amendments to the foreign legislation is a follow-up to the Storting decision earlier this year to include Directive 2004/38/EC in the EEA Agreement. The right to move and reside freely in the Member States belongs to the core areas of the EEA Agreement. The legislative proposal clarifies and simplifies legislation and further develops the rights deriving from the EEA Agreement. The legislative proposal is essentially a continuation of the existing law, while some important new arrangements are being put in place. It will simplify living down and working in other countries significantly, which we will have great joy and benefit from. The right of EEA citizens and their family members to remain permanently after five years and rights of family members for example: The EEA citizen dies, is important and will reduce individual concerns by taking up work in another country, for example: Norway. Administrative simplifications are also important. Thin bureaucratic arrangements shall no longer characterise the early stages of an EEA citizen's residence in the country. The system of application for a residence permit is replaced by a registration scheme — an advantage both for individuals and for the administration. I am very pleased with the great degree of agreement on most of the proposals, not least the proposals relating to it with rapid and simple processing and the possibility of permanent residence with a permanent residence certificate for EEA citizens. Having said that, I would also like to comment on judgments handed down by the European Court of Justice after the Stortingen agreed to include Directive 2004/38/EC in the EEA Agreement and after the Government promoted the legislative proposal currently under consideration. Decisions in the so-called Metock case set certain limits on which national immigration rules are compatible with Community law. Since the conclusion of the EEA Agreement, women and men from other EEA countries have been entitled to have their family with them when they make use of the right to move freely in the EEA territory. That right applies both when the family members are nationals of an EEA country and when they are third-country nationals. The Metock judgment means that it cannot be required that the family member is already legally resident in the EEA. The provisions on which the judgment is based can be found in today's EEA Agreement, but they have not been put at the forefront in the past. It means that not incorporating the Directive into the EEA Agreement by existing legislative proposals will hardly have any real impact on our obligations. I can therefore not see that it has any intention to do as the Progress Party proposes, namely to send the proposition back to the Government. At the same time, it is worrying that the interpretation of the Court of Justice limits the possibility of making some formal demands that could counteract the abuse of immigration regulation. It has created a debate in several EU countries, and here too. As mentioned in letters to the Municipal and Administrative Committee, Norway will participate in the work undertaken by the European Commission to provide guidance on the interpretation of the Directive. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee has come up with a solution that enables us to establish the mechanisms proposed, while at the same time working with other countries to prevent abuse and circumvention of immigration legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e744	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e747	By means of two letters between the Committee and the Council of State, the Council of State has in reality explained that there is a significant degree of uncertainty in the impact of the Metock judgment on the practice of national immigration policy. All the time we have to realize that we know too little about what this can mean for the practice of, not least – as I mentioned in my post – the so-called restrictions on asylum imposed by the Government next year, how is it possible to go against a proper investigation, as the Progress Party wants? Is it the case that this is the consideration of the EEA Agreement which is in fact ahead of national considerations?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e752	It is correct that I have commented on questions from the committee in two letters. What comes out of those letters is that the consequences of the judgment to which it is referred would probably have been the same, regardless of the implementation of the Directive, in relation to existing EEA law. Then we believe that the right strategy to avoid unintended effects is that those who actually designed the directive work with the EU to ensure that we get a clarification of the legislation that is already there, which the European Commission is working on and will continue to work with. I would also like to say that it is quite special that the representative believes that the measures proposed by the Government in relation to tightening things up on the asylum institution – not for those who have protection needs, but for those who come without it – should be affected by this, as the representative has previously referred to it as being totally ineffective.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e760	Labour immigration is positive, labour immigration is necessary for the Norwegian economy, and the rules for family reunification for those who come here as migrant workers should be simplified. Once upon a time, the vast majority of migrant workers in the EEA region who come to Norway will stay here for a short time and return home. From that point of view, the Christian People's Party welcomes the fact that it is easier for immigrants to settle in Norway. We also said that when we discussed this matter earlier this year. Then there have been some complications that the Council of State has explained. The Christian People's Party believes it is right to support the majority in this Chamber today in introducing this directive, but we must be open to make changes if necessary. The only thing I want to ask the Council of State is: does the Council of State fear that we will see a widespread abuse of this directive? It's under my question that I'm not afraid of it. I don't think we'll see many pro forma marriages – we have legislation that prevents it. Does the Council of State fear that we will have a problem with this directive?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e769	Point 1: There's no reason to think that we're going to have a big problem. Paragraph 2: There is reason to believe that the problem we would have had would have been independent of the implementation of the directive. Having said that, I would like to say that I am concerned that the rules we are developing should not be supported by that kind of judge, even if it is not intended by those who actually made the directive in their time. That is why we are going to work closely with the European Commission to ensure that the directive is interpreted in a way that is in line with the intention and cannot be extended by the Court of Justice. I agree with the representative that labour immigration is fundamentally positive. There's something we need in Norway, and that's what we're going to need in Norway. I am pleased that there are clear driving rules and less bureaucracy around it. That will be the result of the decision that Odelstinget is about to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e776	In my previous line, I showed that the Metock judgment can actually have a negative impact on the announced restrictions on asylum that the Government proposes next year. In particular, restrictions on the family immigration rules apply to persons who have resided in Norway on a humanitarian basis, they may be affected. But Stortinget hasn't even been able to figure out the consequences. A legislative amendment is now being adopted which may have unintended effects. The special feature here is that the residence directive has been implemented to varying degrees in various EU countries. Norway must therefore once again go ahead and implement legislative changes under the Directive, go ahead of what the EU does. How is it to defend it, all the time there is uncertainty about the Metock judgment?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e783	To say that we are going ahead of the EU's own Member States becomes a little special, when we know that we have already left behind the date of implementation of the directive. We're actually late for implementation. In this case, I understood the Committee that there is a common desire that the rules we make and debate about politics in Norway should be followed up on their own by European legislation. We agree on that. The best strategy is to influence the Commission’s further work, and be among the many other countries that are concerned that one should not be able to get unintended family reunification through a circumvention of what is in the law in very many countries – that one must actually have the residence permit in place in the country concerned. The Government wants to follow-up in close cooperation with the European Commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e788	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3 [[See page 217]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e806	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e815	An important objective of housing policy is to ensure a high level of housing security for tenants. The House Rental Act deals with the rights and obligations of the lessor and the lessor in a tenancy relationship. That it's an important law, we can see from who's on the rental market, and who's on the own market. We know that the majority of those who rent have low incomes. This is often related to the age pattern of the tenants. More than half of those in the 20s are tenants, and there is an overrepresentation of immigrants and minority groups among the tenants. Norway is in a special position in northern and central European countries in terms of the housing market, we have a high holding. The share of households as tenants is above 20 pst. It's a wild policy that we have so much ownership. The fact that so many owners are a recognition that having a good and safe place to live is one of the basic values of the welfare society. That's the result of a misguided development. Equally important is the security of those who are tenants. The government has proposed for leases concluded for a certain period that the lessor must disclose in writing that the lease cannot be terminated during the agreed lease term. After the proposal, a breach of this obligation to provide information would lead to the lessee being able to terminate the lease during the lease term. It is also proposed to allow the lessee to pay for the lessor’s costs of water and disposal in the lease when these costs are to be paid after measured consumption. Several changes have been proposed to the deposit provision, including: that the lessor can no longer be paid due rent without prior notice to the lessee. Amendments to the special rules have been proposed for the rental of enclosed dwellings for use by persons with special housing needs of a lasting or temporary nature. One provision has been proposed for the rental of dwellings to disadvantaged people on the housing market and another provision for the rental of casual dwellings to students and students. Both provisions propose inter alia: an opportunity to enter into temporary leases of less than three years' duration, limitations on access to sub-rent and a right for the lessor to dispose of the dwelling during the absence of the lessee. So the question is how to prevent unreasonable rental conditions and get good rights for those who are on the rental market. The majority of the Committee wanted better rental price statistics to be produced in order to find a basis for renting. The reason is that today, after a rental relationship has lasted three years, it can be required to adjust the rentals to the rentals. However, it is a problem that on a national basis we do not have an experience base to determine which level is right for an assessment of rentals. The entire Committee points out that the Government proposes that the lessor's water costs may be charged in addition to the rent when the costs are paid after measured consumption. The Committee considers that if this is to be included in the rental, it must not be added to the original rental price and that if the lessee wants to install water meters, the lessee shall cover the cost but, if the lessor so wishes, the lessor shall cover the cost. The aim is to seek to reduce water consumption for climate and environmental reasons. The entire Committee agrees in a slightly different way that students must be able to have a common deposit account and that interest income must be allocated to the purpose of student co-operation. The majority of the Committee also welcomes the fact that the preparatory work on the law makes it clear that the lessor is responsible for the maintenance of common areas and accessories and items which the lessee is entitled to use under the agreement. It is important that this is also clarified to apply to municipal housing, and that this is actually followed up by the landlord. In particular, the Ministry is asked to come back with proposals for solutions on how this can be done and followed up better than what is being done today. The majority also want to make fixed-term contracts a general rule and want to distinguish between private and professional lessors. The Ministry is asked to come back with an assessment of these issues. Also in the case of rents, the Ministry is asked to come back with an assessment to ensure against unfair rental conditions and to get an overview of whether there are better ways to regulate the rental area than is currently available. We do not ask for more – nor for less. The Ministry is also asked to come back with a follow-up on how the House Rental Act is to be harmonised with the Planning and Building Act in terms of climate and environment. Finally, we strengthen the possibility of a housing permit selection. This brings forward the position of the Municipal and Administrative Committee on changes to the House Rental Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e847	The Progress Party predicted that the law would provide for extensive and detailed regulation in several areas within the rental market for dwellings, with the result that the lessor loses some of the control and the right to dispose of his own property. Legislation for rental activities that strongly interfere with the owner's right to dispose of his own property may create scepticism and unwillingness to rent out among many private landlords and lead to a reduction in the offer of rental properties. An important objective of housing policy should be to make effective use of the existing housing stock by stimulating owner-occupiers to rent vacant dwellings in owner-occupied dwellings. There should be full freedom of contract for the determination of rental amounts under rental conditions. The size and nature of the rental is therefore a matter which should be determined by the parties themselves by agreement. Public intervention in the private market shall be limited to stimulating free competition and strict control so that unsolicited cartel or monopoly activities do not occur. The party making progress is of the opinion that public interference with rental conditions mentioned in the law, including the size of the rental, is itself a source of conflict between the tenant and the lessor. It is therefore important to limit rental conditions to be subject to public regulations and controls which may create even greater problems than those which may arise in a free market. The Landsförbund of the House owners believes that it should be opened up to allow separate payment for more additional benefits than is possible under current law, and believes that the possibility of separate payment for water and sewerage is a step in the right direction, which the case-rapporteur was also involved in his statement. It should also be possible for the lessee to be charged for renovation and fencing. It is the user of the service who should pay for it – this in order to ensure efficient resource use and more environmentally friendly behaviour. The Progress Party refers to the practice that student relations use a common deposit account, which was also covered by the case-rapporteur, among others. because international students need to set up their own bank account in Norway through a long process. The party to the progress is of the opinion that it is very positive that, in the preparation of the legislative amendments, it is clear that the lessor is responsible for the maintenance of common areas and accessories and items which the lessee is entitled to use under the agreement. It is important to clarify that this also applies to municipal housing, and that this is actually followed up by the landlord. The lessor must be able to limit the number of persons to be admitted to the household initially rented to only one or two persons. Without the owner's approval, it must be limited to spouses or cohabitants and both children. There are several factors that argue that the lessor must be able to influence and limit the number of persons that can be admitted to a household in a rental dwelling where it may initially have been just the intention to hire one or two people. Such management of own property may be important both in the interests of any neighbours, increased wear and tear on the dwelling and the living conditions of those who are tenants, and not least in the interests of fire safety. Therefore, the Progress Party supports the Government’s proposal to tighten the rules relating to overpopulation in dwellings. The term ‘rent’ has a significant effect by agreement between the lessor and the lessee on the rental level, without becoming a matter of law. If detailed lists are made at the level of the majority, I am afraid that there will in reality be a government governance of rental prices that puts the market mechanisms out of play. Such developments will reduce the supply side of a rental market over time. It is therefore surprising that the majority are in favour of this type of solution without the consequences being investigated. I would like to include the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e870	The representative Ib Thomsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e873	The right-hand position is that the bill presented by the Government was initially relatively well balanced between the rights of both the lessee and the lessor. There were still a couple of conditions in which we wanted to make some changes. One is connected to the renovation and sweeping, which the representative Thomsen was also involved in. We also wanted to have some stricter regulation in relation to overpopulation. We think that the law is going in the right direction, but that some of the comments that follow the paragraph actually weaken the importance of overpopulation. Some of the fires we've seen in the fall show that it's important to have clear legislation in that area. That is why, together with the Progress Party, we have also commented on this. However, the vote has shown that the government parties, and the majority, want a different rental policy than what the Government initially proposed – and this is surprising. This relates in particular to the leaderships related to the term ‘ rents of the gang’. We are afraid that the majority's proposal, namely that the Government should continue to work to produce detailed surveys of the rentals of gangs throughout the country, and at urban level, is in reality the first step towards a state housing regulation. This is reinforced by the fact that the majority of the Committee is not involved in the comments of the Progressive Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, where it is said: «The members of the Committee assume that a better basis for calculating rents is not the same as reintroducing house rental regulation and price caps.» [[...]] This is a note that the government parties are deliberately not in, and it underlines that we are right in our assumptions that this imposed on the Government to start work on better statistics in terms of rent, is a first step towards the introduction of what Oslo SV and Oslo Arbeiderparti have proposed, namely government house rent regulation. This is further reinforced by the majority of the Committee, including: Government lots, in their comments, state that current provisions on price protection have had a limited effect as a means of preventing unreasonable levels of rental. Furthermore, they want the rent of the company to be significant earlier in the rental relationship than after it has been for three years – that is, once again a clear guide for the rental of the company to actually be the starting point for the lease, not market rental. This will have many effects. The most serious effect will obviously be that less leased items will arrive on the market. This means that the house queues are going to be longer. Those who lack housing are going to get even more difficult than they have today. It is going to lead to poorer maintenance of the dwellings that are specifically targeted at this group. It can also lead over time to an experienced past, namely a black lease economy, where the restriction on rental items and rental prices makes it possible for those who have the opportunity to pay below the table to stand first in the lease queue. I would very much like to warn against the leaders of the majority parties in this position – as a decree to the Government – and I am very surprised that the government parties go so far as to instruct their own government to introduce a completely new housing policy in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e893	After all, politics, including legislation, is a struggle for power and interests. It should therefore not surprise anyone that we in SV – now as before – are taking sides with the non-property. Based on my own experience both as a tenant and owner of the dwelling, one thing strikes me as a bit unfortunate in these debates. Too often all those who are tenants, instead of owners, are made of housing, into some kind of clients. But it's not like that -- at least it doesn't have to be like that. Many people don't get loans, even though they might want to own them, for example. due to a lack of, low or unstable labour income, but they are well able to rent. A person can live well for rental – alone or with others – and many people actually choose not to assume financial obligations and loans that bind them, too, all or part of their lives. In fact, over 400,000 workers — according to LO’s definition of low pay — are low-paid and may be struggling a little in the housing market. But I think that many people will feel offended about getting into a category that needs to be helped with specific measures by the ‘others’, which are the housing owners. Freedom is, as you know, so much – not just material freedom, although it is essential. That being said, we need to facilitate the avoidance of exploitation. The fact that all people have a housing need gives – especially in the absence of housing – the possibility of speculation, and we have seen that renting is actually much more expensive than owning, especially in cities. Therefore, it is our duty as a legislative assembly to regulate the situation in order to avoid the law of the strongest, or the law of the young. The freedom of contract of the Progress Party is not necessarily a good thing, either for tenants or for employees. In other countries it is more common to rent a dwelling, and therefore a person also often has better regulation of it, precisely because there is an arena where interests are opposed. When the majority of the municipal committee has decided to ask the ministry to look at what is the rental prices around, in order to prevent unreasonable levels of rental, this is very good. And when we have a real statistical base, it'll be much easier to find a bunch of rentals that are not market rentals. We in SV are also very satisfied with the strong leadership that has been put in place to secure people's timeless leases. When they are also regulated by rules, there will be more security for the individual as a tenant. Housing is a fundamental need. Ensuring greater security for tenants is a good step towards a more fair society with equal opportunities for different people.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e914	In Norway, we have a good tradition of stimulating people to live in owner-occupied housing. Own housing in a safe environment is one of the most important welfare goods in society. The main objective of the Christian People's Party's housing policy is therefore to facilitate a stable housing market in which everyone is given the opportunity, if they so wish, to live in owner-occupied dwellings. That being said, an increased political focus on strengthening the rental sector is necessary and very positive. The House Rental Act pursues key objectives of housing policy. It is important that we ensure the rights of the tenants so that their housing situation can be safe and stable. Of course, this must be weighed against the motivation of the lessor to rent out. If it becomes too strict to rent out a dwelling, less will. That makes sense. We also need to facilitate the conditions for the lessors, because they represent a completely necessary and important supplement to the housing market. It is important that we facilitate the conditions also in order to be willing to rent out. I think that the government's proposal regarding the rent law has a good and proper balance between the lessor's and the lessor's rights. The House Rental Act regulates obligations and rights in the relationship between the lessor and the lessor for some dwellings. The Christian People's Party is united with the government parties and the Left in the majority and supports the bill. The majority make some clarifications and ask the Ministry to come back with new assessments or follow-up in the regulatory work. This has been explained earlier in this debate, and I will join most of it, instead of repeating everything. The changes that have been made are sensible changes based on experience in the years in which the rental law has worked, since 2000. At all, the rental law is a reasonable and logical law. It is important that a job is done to make the rental law known to those who rent the dwelling. There's probably a lot of people who don't know the rights they actually have. I think a person can often say it so that there is nothing wrong with the law, but with the follow-up to the law on a number of points. The challenge of overpopulation in apartments has become obvious to us this year, partly through tragic press headlines on how, for example, it can be said. Polish workers have been living together in narrow apartments to save Norwegian employers money. This is unworthy, and it is good that the rules relating to overpopulation are tightened up, just to avoid this kind of abuse. There must not be a very rigid code in this area, but the proposition makes the house a little too wide when it describes that one should not base a strict norm. Student relations were active during the hearing of the House Rental Act. They pointed out, among other things: on the problem of requiring the establishment of a deposit account for each individual student. This would result in an additional cost of administrative expenses that would have to be reduced to the students. In addition, this procedure will create particular problems for international students. Before you can create a bank account in a Norwegian bank, you must have an 11-digit Norwegian person number from the Folkeregister. It takes a lot of time, and is often not clear until long after the student has moved into the dwelling. It is positive that the majority in the referral request to have regulations in place to ensure that student relations are exempted from this requirement. That makes sense. Requirements for each student’s own deposit account would be, as the Committee notes in the cancellation, an unnecessary bureaucratic system. So finally, I agree with the representative, Höie, who said in his post that he would warn against state regulation of the rental prices. It might seem like a desire to go a step toward it now, and it's not desirable. For it is that there is a large potential in Norway. We have many square meters in houses in Norway and space to rent out a lot more of the space there is. We have to motivate that more people want to rent out parts of their homes in a simple way, so that the housing prices will fall for all those who need a rented dwelling. So we're going to need more units, not fewer units.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e931	Norway differs from many other countries in Europe, with a high proportion owning their own housing. This means that the rental sector is stronger in many countries than in Norway. A low proportion of tenants are likely to be one of the reasons why we in Norway have not developed self-regulations for the representation of residents in line with other countries in Europe. A low proportion of tenants should not be an argument for continuing to discriminate against the right of tenants to participate and influence in their own housing situation. The left suggests that we start by giving tenants in rental properties over a certain amount of increased rights to participation. This is an obvious right to participation which is highly regulated in housing law and housing law. We also need to transfer this to the rental sector. For us, it is natural that residents in rented areas should be given the right to express their vote in a tenancy board if they are in favour of or against camera surveillance in backyards and uprisings. We believe that residents will more fully participate in and take responsibility for operations, maintenance and the living environment with increased rights. The Left therefore asks the Government to return to the Stortinget with a proposal that gives tenants in housing conditions over a certain size, and that relates to professional landlords, a legal right to participation. This will also be in line with the Left's ambition to professionalise the rental sector, both on the rental side and on the lessee's side. Influence, dialogue and long-termity are an important part of this. The left considers that the Norwegian rental market is characterised by poor organisation on the rental side and many inexperienced tenants on the other side. It is therefore necessary for the authorities to contribute to professionalising the rental sector and to contributing to a more long-term perspective. In Norway, we have a special tradition of stimulating owned housing. We imagine that the rental sector will grow in the coming years, due to both economic turmoil and increased youth unemployment. The association of students in Tromsø has organised both landlords and tenants through the Internet — a simple and inexpensive tool to help more cities in the country do the same. Together with legislative changes, these are examples of simple measures to better organise the sector and contribute to more professionalism. We also look at several ideal housing foundations into the rental sector, and challenge the Government on a policy to help establish them. There is also a need to strengthen information measures for young tenants in particular. We would like to see the government look at which actors might be involved in such a context. Both municipalities, Unginfo, Ungbo, housing cooperatives and student relationships are natural to assess. In terms of rent base, the Left is positive in determining whether a better basis for price formation is possible. The Internet effort made by the Student Association in Tromsø to collect rental and tenant information on one side, together with map information and urban comparisons, has resulted in rental prices stagnating and correcting themselves. This shows that there is a lot to pick up in the rental sector on the organisation. Otherwise, we assume that it is not intended to reintroduce house rental regulation. It seemed strange that central representatives from the Workers' Party and SV in Stortinget made proposals for house rent regulation on the same day that the Committee gave its opinion on this issue. Housing regulation has not been the subject of the Committee's consideration of this matter. In conclusion, I would like to say that the Left has changed its view of the housing housing selections following the tests carried out in Oslo and Akershus. We now support the continuation of these on a permanent basis and the possibility of creating such samples several places by local initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e948	The government's goal is for everyone to stay safe and sound. It applies regardless of whether an owner or a tenant. Husleigelova shall regulate contracts for the right to rent accommodation for remuneration. However, the agreement entered into between the individual renting out and the lessee is of decisive importance. The government announced in the Soria Moria statement a review of the rentals. Today's case is an acknowledgement of that point. I register broad support from the Committee for the changes that are now being proposed, such as: the obligation to provide information in the case of fixed-term contracts and the possibility for lessors to make a specific payment for consumption-based expenditure. The last thing I think is good for both the climate and the environment and consumption in total. It will also be an advantage for many single - person households. And then, from the plural's side, it's at the same time given some clear assignments for further work. The proposal for amendments to this Act was presented in June. In the course of the fall, housing policy, and, of course, the situation on the rental market, have gained increasing attention. So I actually have a lot of understanding that this is asking a lot of questions about different aspects of today's law. Let me then briefly comment on the following theme: First of all, tightening up in relation to fixed-term contracts. Until it is said that according to the SSB, the majority of the agreements that are entered into are timeless. I understand the intention of tightening up, but there is enough so that the facts in the matter must be on the table first. One of the questions in the lease market investigation to the SSB shall be, from next year, whether temporary or non-scheduled leases are entered into. It will provide better data. Then I'm going to involve a research institute to make an impact assessment of any tightening of the use of fixed-term contracts, and eventually to consider whether there is a need for further tightening. When it comes to the question of price statistics, it's enough that he's not that good in parts of the country. At the same time, getting good statistics is a fairly comprehensive matter. There are rentals in many municipalities that can help to tell more about what is rented. In Oslo and Akershus, the Home Rental Committee can determine what it should be, i.e. what we can do to obtain better statistics, and whether it may be appropriate to follow up more closely in the extension. The question of renting again is also something that I have to come back to. Then there's also a question about price regulation. It is such that the price of buying dwellings is not regulated. It may then seem a little special to introduce regulation for the tenant. An important counter-argument is at least that there is a risk that there may be more and no fewer rentals on the market, and that is not the way we should be. But there's also something that I'm going to see in what way I can follow up, like what I said about the deposit. And then I have to say that the Home Rental Committee is doing a formidable job with the professionals they have, so I'm actually surprised that there's someone in the committee who wants to wind up just that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e969	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e973	The Council of State was in the matter of rent regulation, but I did not fully understand what the conclusion was. I understand that the government is sniffing at introducing this regulation both in Oslo and in the rest of the country. I see that it's going to be hard to put a price on the homes, and that it can be a challenge. Does the Council of State see what can be the consequence of introducing such a state housing regulation, which I perceive the Government is going to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e978	I would like to answer that question in more detail. It is such that the Labour Party in Oslo and SV has taken up this matter. They are concerned that there should be a possibility for more people to rent a dwelling within reasonable limits. They're busy with developments in the tenancy sector as he is. My answer would be that a regulation may not mean more rental locations. It could mean less. In fact, the market is turning fast. A regulation may mean that the rentals will be higher than otherwise. Therefore, my answer is that there are many aspects to this matter that need to be clarified.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e987	As I was in my post, there is a great deal in the comments from the government parties about the rents of gangs that point towards a government rental regulation – both the level of detail it is added up to, and how the terms are used. This was reinforced in the SV post during the debate, where the representative said ‘unmarket rentals’. Indeed, current rentals are just the expression of market rentals in an area and a paragraph which prevents the lessor from being able to charge prices above market prices in the area. Is it so that the Council of State can stand behind the remarks and the leaders that are in the attitude of the government parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e994	I see these comments as a desire to look closer to the rental market, helping to provide more information on what is the usual rental – and actually for the benefit of both the tenant and the tenant. To the extent that this might be perceived by someone as a direct order with a view to introducing price regulation, I would say that from these comments to any such introduction, there is a long way to go. As I said in my previous reply, there is probably a lot that needs to be done in more detail. I think it's important now to use the services that the tenants and the tenants actually have today, for example. the local tenants.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e999	The situation in Norway today is such that the lessee’s rights are well regulated in the law and through the changes that are now taking place and that is important. What needs to be followed is information to the individual tenant. So for the landlord. As you can see in the setting, there may seem to be a narrowing in relation to the lessor. It concerns the Christian People's Party, because, as the Council of State said, there is a need for more, not fewer rental homes. Can we trust that the Council of State in its further work on this is aware that one should not tighten up with the lessor, so that one can take advantage of the potential of vacant apartments in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e1006	It's not quite clear to me what example Dryersdal comes with here. I see that there are several members of the committee who have said that in the changes that are being made, there is a good balance between what is to be regulated – which is a liability for rentals at some points and which also applies to tenants. What is my intention is still to maintain this balance. There are some specific settings that apply to tenants. I've been briefed on how I want to follow them up. But I think that the whole law, including the changes that are being made today, is part of telling you that in a rental relationship, there are two parties, both of whom are to be killed by the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e1011	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 222]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e1029	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e1038	The aim of the administrative reform is to decentralise power and authority. A significant expansion in the responsibilities of counties in different sectors strengthens the regionally elected levels of both development and service providers. Administrative reform involves, first and foremost, new and important responsibilities for county municipalities. The majority support the Government for the establishment of an enhanced county model and for the central not taking the initiative to change the county classification. The policy has not changed with regard to county councils which, if necessary, would wish to join together voluntarily. At the same time, we stress that reinforced county model requires decisions on the planned cooperation between Oslo Municipality and Akershu County Municipality. We red-green, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, believe that the regionally elected level is important in having good, popular governance in important areas of society, where the state can become too large and too far away and the municipalities in many cases too small. Often we find the best solutions across borders, and when we're able to interact. If intercommunal cooperation is extensive, a regional level is needed, which is just interacting with the municipalities individually and intercommunally, and contributes to good dialogue with the State. The combination of developer and service provider provides flexibility and space for action and efficiency in the decisions. I imagine that the county council, among others. through its training responsibilities, it also becomes an important partner for many in reducing the negative consequences of the financial crisis and turning problems into opportunities. The county council is needed, not least in difficult times. Now we make sure the county gets more muscles. I'm going to stop there about the importance of three levels of government. Today, it is about the law that gets most of the new tasks in place, where I would like to highlight in particular the responsibility for other national roads and associated ferry links and the important and significant partnership in Innovation Norway. With regard to other national roads, it constitutes such a large and important transfer of tasks to the counties that the majority of the committee assumes that sufficient competence is made available. Furthermore, with the exception of the Advance Party, all lots assume that the State and the counties agree on the economic aspects of the task transfer. Administrative reform gives the county more responsibility in the field of education. When the operational and financial responsibilities of the specialised schools are transferred, the state resources must be transferred in the most equitable manner possible, while at the same time assessing a settlement system between the county councils. It is very important to ensure that students have free choice across borders. The majority are also concerned that the Government assesses whether the free principle should also be legislated for post-secondary education. Last week, the ever-proactive red-green government took a decision that involves a further task transferred to the county councils with effect from 1 January 2010, at the same time as the other tasks. Decisions in concession cases for mini- and micro-power plants up to 1 megawatt, to be delegated from the NVE to the county. This will strengthen regional maritime governance on issues primarily affecting local and regional interests and will contribute to effective treatment and job creation in rural areas. Several tasks may be relevant if it is too early to say something more concrete now. However, the majority of the Committee welcomes the fact that the Government will look into whether further environmental and agricultural tasks can best be managed by the county councils. The government has, among other things, the announcement that it will come to the Stortinget with its own cases concerning the management of the protected areas and new law on natural diversity. The right hand parties and the rest of us have completely different views on whether there should be two or three levels of government. It's only at one point in the Committee's position that we're standing together, so it should make an impression. The pilot scheme concerns the local management of rural development funds in Valdres and the Nord-Gudbrandsdalen. The scheme appears to work well with regard to the involvement and development of the community. The Committee therefore assumes that there is no obstacle to the continuation of such management of BU funds. This must be done in a reform that is precisely about the decentralisation of authority. Once we are within my home country, Uppland, I, as an indigenous crab, can see that we too on those sides will participate in the marine part of the administrative reform. Together with many other new tasks, the authorities under the aquaculture law of the inland counties will be transferred to the county municipalities from 2010. Finally, the majority of the Committee welcomes the assessment of the implementation or further development of tests related to the single-cell model at regional level following the implementation of the administrative reform. This may be relevant for new experiences. Gradually, one should also be able to consider other experimental activities as interesting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e1075	In a small country such as Norway, two levels of government, state and municipality need to be sufficient. Therefore, the county can be wound up as a level of government and allocated tasks between the remaining two levels of government. The constituencies of the Grand Duchy need not be affected by this – perhaps to reassure some representatives who are concerned about that. Since the arrival of health regions in 1999, the counties have not had any tasks to justify this intermediate level. The strength of the counties after 2002 has been that they are owners and drivers of secondary education, and it is not in my opinion a task sufficient to maintain a directly elected middle level. The regional reform of the government has failed, and the proposals of the administrative reform presented will also not strengthen local self-government or local democracy. On the contrary, the Government's proposal would mean a weakening of local democracy and the ability of local authorities to evolve on the basis of local conditions and needs. The government underestimates the ability and willingness of municipalities to take responsibility for the development of municipalities and the desire of municipalities to take their administrative responsibility seriously in line with the interests and needs of future generations. The Government's proposals go hand in hand with a wide range of proposals leading to a reduction in the ability of municipalities to govern in their own municipality. The red-green government restricts the jurisdiction of the municipalities, e.g. by tightening the building ban in the 100 metre belt throughout the country, making regional plans binding and imposing bans on shopping centres These are some examples. The new law on the land is under preparation, and there is much evidence that the land border is defined by law without the involvement of the affected municipalities around Akershus in the run-up to this. The income system penalises large-scale municipalities and increased demands have been made for the introduction of property taxes before the distribution of discretionary means. The Progress Party wants larger and stronger municipalities. The Progress Party wants each municipality to have better governance with its own economy by managing its own revenues in addition to basic welfare services, and the individual municipality should not be entrusted with national tasks without ensuring the financing of these tasks. The county is a county road authority and has a role both as a service producer and regional development operator for this road network. The responsibility for the county roads means that the county has financial responsibility for the planning, construction, repair, maintenance and operation of county roads. Municipalities shall have overall financial responsibility for cultural policy at municipal level. This means that, in addition to current county tasks, municipalities are responsible for the management of current state grant schemes for the local cultural offer. I refer to the proposals of the Advance Party and the Right that have been promoted, that policies relating to gambling and slot machines should be determined by the municipalities, and that the revenues of the non-governmental organisations should be taken into account in this respect. The Progress Party believes that municipalities should also be given the right to manage motorised outland traffic, and believes that this will lead to increased willingness in municipalities to implement good municipal planning and monitoring of the most vulnerable natural areas. Then I want to include the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e1103	The representative Ib Thomsen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e1106	The thing we have to deal with today is the story of the elephant who not only gave birth to a mouse, but of the elephant who gave birth to a dead mouse. When this case was presented to the Stortinget after the government change, the words used were that this was the greatest democratic reform in modern times. Well, I think the commitment and the content of this proposition stand for itself as a confirmation that that kind of divination didn't go far. There has now been a solution where the majority of the county councils go in to carry out some more tasks, but in most areas, however, these tasks will also be carried out by the county council, and there will be a good deal of duplication of tasks between the county council and the county councils to an even greater extent than today. That means that in reality the matter we have to deal with today, which the representative Thomsen was also involved in, is a continuation of the continuous attack of the red-green government on municipal autonomy. The municipalities will again experience not only being tried by the county but even more being tested by the county councils in relation to their local decisions. I am very pleased that the case rapporteur from the Workers' Party did not take the biggest and the heaviest words in his mouth when he presented this matter. I have a dream that the Workers' Party will be able to participate in a broad political anchored democracy reform based on the tasks of the municipalities in the next big-scale period, when they get rid of the Forced Strait from the Senter Party and the SV. For the main problem of this reform, it has had as its starting point the maintenance of a level of administration that has proven for several years to lack the necessary legitimacy of either the State or the municipalities. The state's lack of faith in the county councils has been expressed continuously, but the strongest was when responsibility for the specialist health service was transferred to the state. The responsibility for the protection of children was transferred and then tried, through a majority of this government, to create a reform that would, once and for all, ensure the continued existence of the counties by forming sub-regions with large tasks. It didn't work, and it will be in history as the last attempt to save the county municipalities. The situation is now that the municipalities do not give legitimacy to the county council, and the clearest proof is that all municipalities in this country have now established regional cooperation forums, where the municipalities are working together on the tasks that were said to be the principal task of the county councils, namely regional development, planning and industrial cooperation. All of this is done by the municipalities in cooperation with the regional forums. The decisions of the county councils in these areas have no legitimacy unless they are anchored in agreement between the municipalities of the regional authorities. This means that the solution that remains is a solution based on the municipalities, a discussion of the tasks of the municipalities, where a larger and more robust municipalities can take overall responsibility for child protection, for secondary education, for public transport, for a greater responsibility within the employment service, Nav, i.e. a task reform that makes decisions closer to where people live, which requires less state regulation and more solutions in the vicinity of people. What's good about the matter we're dealing with today is that it sets an important finish line for the discussion about the county council and the start of a new discussion about a completely new administrative reform. I am very happy now to see that in the draft party program for the parties on the non-socialist side, these are thoughts that are shared into all parties, and my hope is that there are also thoughts that will soon be shared by the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e1121	The President has reason to believe that the representative is to make proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e1124	I would like to address the proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e1129	The representative Bent Höie has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e1132	In the autumn of 2006 we received St.meld. No 12 Regional priority – regional future. Unfortunately, the Storting Communication did not provide for a comprehensive democratic reform for the division of responsibilities and tasks between the levels of government. The Storing Communication contained a plan for transferring some tasks in the fields of transport, culture, industrial development, research, agriculture and the environment from country to country or region level. This transfer of tasks will, of course, strengthen the county or regional level, but is far from sufficient to ensure a future administrative organisation with three elected levels, municipality, county/region and country. The Christian People's Party wished, among other things: to transfer more and more comprehensive tasks than those announced by the Government in the Single European Act in areas such as industrial development, transport and culture. Now we have to note that the warning of the democratic reform ended only as an adjustment to today's county. In the view of the Christian People's Party, there is no consistency between the objectives of the reform and the tasks that the Government was willing to transfer. I record that the proposition has gone away from talking about the transfer of tasks to the regions and instead transferring tasks to the county municipalities. A majority of the state hearings show that an enhanced county model is preferred as a regional breakdown model rather than an intermediate model or regional model. I am not surprised at this, as the Storing Notice did not notify sufficient transfer of tasks to the intermediate level or provided the basis for any merger of county municipalities. Very many task transfers are dealt with in other processes handled by the individual department itself. However, they are also briefly referred to in Ot.prp. No 10th@item: These are areas of public health, transport, regional research funds, primary education for adults, cultural fields, some tasks in the field of environmental protection, regional innovation companies and agriculture and food. The task assignment from state to state is message. The reform does not result in any significant decentralisation of tasks, nor does it result in any particular strengthening of the county as a regional development operator. I refer to our previous remarks on the transfer of tasks to the different areas, as it would have been if the Christian People's Party had been given the ruling, in the Inner East. S. No 166 for 2006-2007. The Christian People's Party still believes that more tasks should be transferred from the State to the county municipalities. That is why, with the support of the Left, we have made proposals that the Government should open up procedures for the transfer of tasks from state to county councils and to county councils in cooperation. I do not understand that the parties to the Government do not support this proposal. The transfer of responsibility for other national roads is important, and that is correct, but I would point out that there is a paradox that this proposition does not follow up with a transfer of associated personnel from the State Road Administration to the county municipalities. Another main challenge is that the roads transferred from the state to the states are not in satisfactory condition. Thus, a significant cost problem due to a lack of maintenance for many years is transferred from the State to the County Municipality, without any promises in the proposal for additional compensation to bring the road network up to a good standard. The Christian People's Party assumes that the transfer of other national roads will be followed by a transfer of associated personnel from the State Road Administration to the county municipalities. It is no big secret that the Christian People's Party is not satisfied with the governance reform as it has ended up. We believe that the possibility of implementing an important democratic reform has been squandered. But subsidiaryly, of course, we will support the reform because it is a very small step in the right direction. Finally, I will address the proposals of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e1154	The representative, Bjørg Tørresdal, has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e1157	The new state will be a more powerful and better state than the state we have today. It's going in the right direction. It's the first time in a long time that it's gone in the right direction, for government after government has spoken, but it's always gone the other way. At least this time you're doing the opposite. Finally, tasks are transferred to the county and county level. The starting point for the Central Party and the Right, which have been expressed here earlier in the debate, is quite different. Our goal is more popular governance, both locally and regionally. The most important thing in the Norwegian People's Republic is that we have a diversity of small and large municipalities adapted to the geographical and local challenges. Because it's not the same thing to run a municipality like Engerdal, which is larger than the Westfold state, like driving the Ski. So there are very big differences. That's what the Norwegian municipal structure is an expression of. Just because we have so different geography in Norway, we need an intermediate level that can take the overall view and look at the opportunities for development in each country. What the Government is now putting forward is a good follow-up to the leadership we gave in the Committee's position in 2007. It is a new county model that has been supported by the vast majority of hearings. They haven't wanted the big regions, but they've gone in to have an amplified state. Another important principle that I would like to stress is that the Government and the Stortinget stressed that voluntary action should be taken on the basis of future mergers of municipalities and county councils. It has been difficult to decide on such extensive tasks from the central to the regional level. Nevertheless, both from the government and from the majority of the committee, a desire to further decentralize power is expressed, and it can be seen that since the decision was taken, more power has already been transferred: the county councils are now considering applications for concession for the development of mini- and micro-power plants – a step in the right direction. With regard to the broad and comprehensive discussion, we can refer to the debate here on 10 May 2007, Innst. S. No 166 for 2006-2007. I don't want to go further today in a discussion with the Right and the Advance Party about the process they want to start about ending the regional level and getting a whole new municipal structure in place. I am absolutely sure that will create a centralization of power and authority, and there will be far fewer people elected and over time more state rule and less democracy. I also hope that the Right and Advance Party will dare to make visible what new limit they actually want to have. They're talking about a municipal structure reform in big words, but when it comes to the local level, we never hear where the new municipality should be, and what's the good reason for merging those municipalities. The county councils, the municipalities and all our peoples around are for the inhabitants of the country. The fact that there is little distance between local politicians, state politicians and also big politicians in Norway and people is a great strength for democracy. It is a prerequisite for the recruitment of parties, a prerequisite for the free debate, that there are many who participate in political processes, many who participate in political elections. That's the diversity we have of municipalities and county municipalities, a prerequisite for. I hope now that those who do the important job locally can get a little more rest around the work and not get into another structural discussion. That's why I'm glad there's a broad majority behind the vote. I hope that majority will continue in the next period.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e1178	The left shall follow the majority in this case, in line with the Inner Agreement. S. No 166 for 2006-2007. The laws we are dealing with today are little to object to. What is to be objected to is that, in the Left's view, there are too few laws and transfers of tasks that we have been dealt with. The ambition of the left is to decentralise more power and more tasks from the state, which in Norway accounts for more than 55 pst. of the tasks of the public. In Denmark, part of the structural reform was a legal commitment that the State should not hold for more than 30 pst. of the tasks of the public. The proportion we're talking about here today is transferring a maximum of 2 pst. tasks of the State of the counties. So it's probably right to call it a transfer of some tasks from the state to the states, as it says in the setting. Using the term reform for this is not comprehensive, either for democracy or for tasks. It was a reform when we introduced the county municipality in 1975. The ambitions of decentralisation and democratisation were great. Gradually, it is the state and the state that have won the power struggle. That's also the result of this round. In fact, the county is strengthened and not liquidated in its present form, as the majority voted in favour of the Inst. S. No 166. The left was, is and will continue to be grounds for transferring more tasks from the state to the local government sector. We also want to be responsible for more trials in the municipal sector and, above all, for large and comprehensive trials. The unit state trial in More and Romesdal was one of the very few large and more consistent trials conducted in the public sector in Norway in recent years. We need more of these. One of the light points in today's setting is the clear note on the opening for further testing with the unit state. This seems like the left is very good. In addition to More and Romesdal, we know that several states have recently assessed and want to try out such experiments now. Uppland and Hedmark want to try it out together, but, as we understand, they have a clear no from the municipal minister, at least until after 2011. Finally, I would like to point out one of the tasks that it has been discussed to be carried over, and that due to the financial crisis has been updated. This concerns the responsibility for adult training. It was added in anticipation of the setting of the Tron Committee. With an imminent increase in unemployment and a capacity challenge in Nav, it would have been sensible to place a clear responsibility on the counties for adult learning. That possibility is still there, and I will therefore finally be encouraged by the Government not to stop the work of transferring tasks from the state to the states with today's decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e1193	I might want to invite the Storting to close the eye for half a minute, see the Norwegian map, with the fjords, the mountains and the distances that are in some parts of this country, and ask myself the question of how developments should continue, who should last her: is it so certain that for Northernland there is a development that is marked by Bodø and surrounding, which is the best? Is it so certain that Stavanger should last not only the area around Stavanger, but also further out? Is it so that for Hedmark, it's Hamar who's supposed to be the whole engine? In fact, developments have been such that people live more widely now than too few years ago. The last number from 2008 tells us that there are 270 municipalities in this country that have growth in the population. Last year it was 258 years before there again 193. I notice that no one in the committee is rocking at the county borders when it comes to elections. Choice circuits want one. I'm surprised that, with the geography and distances we have, it's going to be such a resistance to having a superior starting point either at county level or at a higher level to carry out tasks that are completely open across municipal boundaries. The county councils today have important education, transport, industry and culture tasks. By decision of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, the Court of Justice of the European Communities and the Court of First Instance of the European Communities have held that the Court of Justice of the European Communities has held that the Court of Justice of the European Communities has jurisdiction to of the national road network, for industry, inter alia ownership, 49 pst. ownership of Innovation Norway, and on culture in the first round of cultural constructions and board members, in the next round also the tipping instruments shall be distributed. So already regional research funds are in place, $6 billion is set aside. The county council is now becoming an important regional development actor. A delegation of additional tasks within agriculture, within the environment, a transfer of water management, including, but one more, and the government has recently signed out something that is warned in this proposition that one should evaluate, i.e., who should be responsible for the decisions when it comes to mini- and micro-power plants? I'm glad that there's a broad majority in this room that sees it necessary to have a popular regional level that takes care of the whole of Northern Ireland, with populace from all over the state, and corresponding to Rogaland, Hedmark and for other states. So they're the ones who want the most to put down the county council, want a different municipal structure. One will keep some of the smallest, because I understand, one will see that they are lying there, and will have to lie there and can't be done with that much. But one will have a municipal structure with different tasks. I agree with those who say that the county council had several tasks as hospitals in their time were also below the county council. The hospital reform has not yet found its solution. But the option today is actually a strengthening of tasks beyond what some people have presented here, with expressions that I don't want to use, so they don't think about it. There's actually a stronger government, there's both the transfer of tasks and new tasks, here's a bill for treatment today, and then there's a message part that tells you that one has to go some more rounds in 2009. But then, on 1 January 2010, the government and the majority of the population are on track in order to establish an enhanced county municipality. That's right, as Bent Höie says, it's now going to be final line. A hyphen is set for all of these discussions that have been held. The bill is accepted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e1208	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e1211	The new Marka Act is now under construction, and I experience that municipalities in Akershus, which are affected by this new law, are desperate because they do not feel that they are being heard or have any influence on the drafting of the law. Does the Council of State think that the treatment of the law of the land that we now see, and this overrun of the municipalities, is a good way to strengthen local democracy, and is it this way that the Government wants to treat the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e1216	I see that the Progress Party in the setting continues that they are the local People's Government's representative in a special class. It surprises me, when they themselves will still liquidate very much of what is called the local before school and care, and other tasks that must find solution locally. Then they're going to go on a piece-of-the-counter financing, with consequences that we can only imagine. So to Markalova: I suggest that you have contact with the municipalities. But as the arrangement is now, there is a common recommendation; there is a common bill from the Government that is also behind the municipal minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e1223	I want to repeat the question from the representative Thomsen, because it is quite clear that the municipalities were promised in advance that they would be involved in a process in relation to the establishment of the mark limit – after the adoption of the principles in the law, but in the regulatory work. This promise left the government brutally, without prior notice from the municipalities, when it became known that the borders would be presented and determined in the law without the municipalities being involved in the process. So I repeat the question to the Council of State: is this a procedure towards the municipalities that the Minister of Municipalities may be familiar with?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e1228	It is enough that in several areas of the capital area there are required processes. It is also clear from this setting when it comes to the planned cooperation that should be between Oslo and the municipalities around it, and where the Ministry of the Environment now has an own responsibility to follow it up so that one gets good and co-ordinated plans in several areas. When it relates to marlawa, it's the way it is now. I argued that there will be good contact with the municipalities in question in the future. But Markalova, let me stress it, is the same way as a lot of other planning and legal work in Oslo and surrounding a special case.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e1235	I believe that the Central Party and the Council of State agree more with the Christian People's Party than what one says in the Chamber today: there should have been greater tasks and more power transferred, and there should have been more of a democratic reform than there could have been. But leave it. In his article, the Council of State said that the hospitals have not got their solution. Then my question becomes: Is the Council open to change, for example. that parts of the specialist health service can be returned to the counties – I say open to assess it, so I don't get a yes or no response? The second question I would like to ask is: does this line set mean that one does not think of any more tasks transferred from departments and directorates and transferred to the county council? Or is it, as I hope, that the Central Party will still achieve its final objectives in the reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e1247	When I called hospitals, it was because it's they who think it's now out of date with county councils anymore, because of hospitals. So I think the representative Tørresdal has also registered the work that Bjarne Håkon Hanssen has now done to clean up, in a much better way than today, in the relationship between the state and the municipality in that field. Of course, program processes are also carried out in different batches. So that was the question of the end line. It is true that in today's case there is an odelstation proposition that sets some final lines, so there is a message part that tells of important work to be done, including tasks that still need to be assessed both on agriculture, on the environment and in other areas, and that is what we are following.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e1257	The cord shift is over. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 226]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e1275	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no replications after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e1282	An area for which this Government really should be remembered is the focus and the fight against violence in close relations and the strengthening of the position and situation of victims of violence. Just one year ago, the Government’s action plan against violence in close relations was presented. It contained 50 measures. New figures in this year’s violence poll show that the need is still as strong for an effort against violence that strikes innocent people so hard. Several thousand live with threats and violence as part of everyday life. 1,382 children live in homes where an adult is subjected to violence and abuse. This year's violence poll shows a double in enquiries about children. In 218 of the 274 cases dealing with violence and assault on children, it is the mother or father who is a violent perpetrator. In 71 p.m. Of these cases, violence takes place at home, and 94 pst, i.e. almost all of the children, have experienced similar violence from the same person in the past. However, the measurement of violence also signals that the strong focus in this area has led to it. The statistics show that there has not been a particular change in the number of people exposed to violence over the years, but that the increase in enquiries means that the auxiliaries have become more responsive. What makes domestic violence so serious is that it hits us where we have to feel safest. Many kids experience that Mom or Dad is the biggest threat. We are responsible for combating this serious form of crime. We're not allowed to turn away from this. As I said, the action plan against violence is almost a year old now in December. And the status report shows that important milestones are in place. During this year we will have children's homes in all health regions, we have increased the penalty for family violence, we have family violence coordinators in full positions in all police districts and our own teams for the investigation of violence and sexual assault – to mention something. The second important promise is to strengthen the position of victims of violence. We have extended the right to an aid lawyer, we have strengthened the position of the victims in criminal matters, and we have extended the right to compensation for victims of violence. Money alone cannot play the grief and wounds of violence and assault, but they can give up and prevent economic worries. One important element in the previous round was that children who have witnessed violence in close relationships were entitled to compensation for the victims of violence. This is a powerful signal to adults about how to handle children in such a situation. Being a witness to violence is also an offense, we say with it. The matter today is probably a step on the way to improving the position of victims of violence. There have been some distortions in the outcome of the compensation scheme, and the decision we are making today will give greater justice. The proposal assumes that the ceiling for the payment under the Victim Compensation Act will double from 20 times the basic amount of the population's money to 40 times the basic amount of the population's money. The amendment will apply to those cases where the application for compensation for victims of violence is made due to criminal offences that occur after the amendment takes effect. The proposal will improve the situation both for the victims of violence and for the survivors where the compensation payment is shared between several. When we dealt with the matter of compensation for victims of violence, the Committee was very concerned about this unfairness and the need to balance the discrimination we saw in some cases. I am therefore pleased that the Minister of Justice has taken up and followed up on this, and put forward the proposal that is on the table today, which will lead us to take another step on the way to improving the situation of the survivors and victims of violence.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e1303	This is perhaps one of the most important issues that we are dealing with. Becoming a victim is something you don't choose for yourself. Nevertheless, I feel that because we have debated this both in relation to the budget and several other matters, it is so important that we cannot debate it often enough. I still want to say that for approx. Two weeks ago, I and the Council of State Knut Storberget were in Tabloid in a debate on compensation for victims of violence. It was basically touching to hear from the Council of State, for he very much agreed with all that the victim said there. He showed great concern for those who had become victims of violence, and promised that he would really take care of this and do something with it. There was no way in what kind of promises he came into that debate, also to put down a separate sample that would look more into this. But today, the government, with the Great Mountain at its head, has the opportunity to show that they really care about those who have been victims of violence, as he said on TV, and to prove that it's not just words. It is quite clear, as the rapporteur said, that there has been an increase in the sum, and it is very much appreciated by the Progress Party. However, I am very disappointed that the government is waiting six months before they implement this. Had they really stood for what they think, they would have introduced the increase from 1 January 2009. A week and a half ago, we were able to read an article in the Evening Post describing the price of a mother. It was about the siblings up in Tromsø who have lost their mother. The amendment of the law that we come with today will not benefit those who are in Tromsø. It shall not be applied retrospectively. Your claim will be invalidated by a margin of three months. If the government really believes what they are saying today, and when the case rapporteur says that we should remember the government's commitment to victims of violence, we should make a completely different decision today. That is why I hope that they can today support the proposal of the Progress Party to introduce the increase from January. The government boasts that they are now increasing this amount. I've said that's very nice. However, it is unreasonable that this becomes one pot that several siblings or several family members have to share. For this reason, the Progress Party makes its own proposal that the restriction should apply per year. Victims and relatives, and that they don't have to share it. With that, I would like to address the proposal made by the Progress Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e1322	The representative Solvency Horne has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e1325	The matter we have to deal with today is in many ways a joyous matter, but it is probably right of me to also repeat some of what the previous representative said up here, that this is a matter that has taken a very long time, despite the fact that there has been a broad consensus on the injustice that is in the system in terms of compensation, and especially in cases where there are several survivors. It is also a bit incomprehensible why it is not possible for this amendment to come into force from 1 January. The matter is well investigated and thoughtful, and it appears almost as if the state has failed to say that the compensation scheme will take effect from 1 January, but that it will be postponed until 1 July next year. I think it is important to stress that no matter how good a replacement arrangement might be, it can never replace the loss suffered by the victims, whether it is a mother or father who has died, or there are other serious conditions and traumas that are the basis for the replacement. There is probably also reason to say that this government has followed up where previous governments have escaped, because there has been a lot of focus on violence in close relations, and new action plans have been presented with new measures, which are very important. On several occasions, we have stressed that it is important for children in particular to be aware of the support and follow-up they need, having experienced perhaps the worst things and experiences that you carry with you for the rest of your life, and that you may never be able to get behind. The representative Anne Marit Bjørnfacen was concerned about – and highlighted in particular – what had been done in the case of children’s homes. But I think it's important that we in Stortinget and the Government and the Council of State also reflect on and evaluate how these children's houses actually work, and whether they are used in the way that the Storting has intended. I visited the police in Ålesund last week. There the police chief could tell that they had now summarized that they had had 45 cases in 2008 where it would have been natural to use the children's home. They had so far not used the children's home in Trondheim in one of the cases. He had calculated that if they were to bring children, with the helpers they were to bring, into such a meeting with children's homes, it would have cost about 1 million. kr. So he didn't see that in his budget he had the opportunity to use the children's home in Trondheim, so I think the Stortinget has assumed, when we know that we've made children's homes in every health region, and have thought that the police districts and the counties of the region should use the children's home that is established. Then I think it's important to go in and find out if the children's houses we've established so far are sufficient, or how we're going to make sure that the children's houses are offered to children that we've actually been thinking about. Then I'm just going to end by saying, like the representative Solvency Horne of the Progress Party, that in many ways it is the case in Tromsø, with these six siblings, who have put this compensation system really on the agenda. Then it's a paradox that this team of siblings will end up in a situation where they are just too late to take advantage of this scheme. So I appeal again to the government parties and the state council to consider whether this change in law can come into effect at an earlier date. We don't have many of these things. It may be a bit special to stand in the Storting and be so concerned with one special matter, but precisely because we don't have so many cases, and precisely because this matter is so tragic, I wish we could have found a different solution to the government parties' care for today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e1342	Violence is a serious problem for those people in our society who are exposed to it. And it's a problem for society, both because violence is contrary to our human vision, and because society is losing it. There can be no doubt that society is taking violence in general and violence in close relationships particularly seriously. I am pleased that this government has put violence and violence, and especially violence in close relations, on the agenda. Unfortunately, when a human being is subjected to violence, society cannot remove the pain and suffering. Neither can society replace a caregiver or a person who is happy. However, society can provide for the victims and the survivors so that they do not have financial problems in addition to the violence and the missing. Last year we dealt with and adopted amendments that extended the system of compensation for victims of violence. Among other things, adopted that children who are witnesses to violence, the survivors and the siblings of the victims of murder and those who suffer personal injury due to serious threats should be entitled to compensation for the victims of violence. This was an important change. Threats of violence can leave behind serious damage to the child’s mental health and mental development. For example, for a child, a threat of violence is at least as real as the actual use of violence. It was a unanimous committee which pointed out in the vote on last year's amendments that the maximum level of compensation for victims of violence is 20 G. The Committee noted that in cases where there were several victims of the same incident, it was necessary for the injured parties to divide the claim. The Committee was of the opinion that, in some cases, the provision could be unreasonable, for example: when several minor siblings were left behind. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Workers' Party, SV and the Right, sent this request decision to the Government: ‘The Government is asking the Government, in the context of the 2008 Revised National Budget, to come back with a detailed review of the violent victims’ compensation scheme.’ I am pleased that the Government has taken a thorough look at this and has submitted a proposal that states that the maximum amount for the payment of victims of violence should be raised from 20 G to 40 G. Again: This will not remove the pain and suffering. Nor will it replace a caregiver or a person who is happy. But this will make life materially not unnecessarily difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e1360	I am pleased that the Judicial Committee supports the Government's proposal to double the maximum rate of compensation for victims of violence from 20 to 40 times the basic amount of the genocide. This is central to us, because the Government's political platform, the Soria Moria Declaration, states that the Government will 'improve the compensation mechanisms for victims of violence and crime, including the relatives'. The situation of the victims was clearly strengthened by the amendment which entered into force on 1 January 2008. Then we opened up so that more people could be replaced, including by extending the right of family members to compensation and by clarifying, as the rapporteur also pointed out, that children who have experienced violence against a related person, and who are fit to harm the child's safety and trust, are entitled to compensation for victims of violence. We also made it easier to get compensation by removing the requirement for rapid application and by opening up a party to cover expenses for obtaining statements from a doctor, a dentist, a psychologist, and so on. Now we get a further boost for those who are the hardest hit, by allowing them to get more in compensation. The legislative proposal under consideration today will improve the situation of victims of violence, who are insulted by criminal law, and of the survivors, where the compensation is shared between several. This means a powerful lifting for the victims of violence and the survivors. The maximum level shall apply only to compensation provided for by the State system for the compensation of victims of violence. In relation to the damage, which is the primary responsibility, no such limit is applicable as we are discussing today. He or she is obliged to pay full compensation for economic and non-economic damage, including upliftment. The amount may extend beyond what is paid by the government. It is a clear ethical and legal starting point that it is the individual perpetrator who must be financially responsible for his actions against the victim. Like criminal liability, liability is considered to have a certain preventative effect which, together with other instruments, can contribute to limiting, among other things. crime of violence. From the point of view of conflict resolution, it may be an important factor for victims of violence as well as for the perpetrator of violence to experience that the perpetrator deals economically as far as possible. However, life and lost health can never be replaced by money. It must not be that society simply chooses to grant money to the victims and abdicates from its responsibility to help them return to a good life. There are many measures that need to be taken. This is not least the issue of the recognition of guilt, and also the contribution to mitigate conflicts is absolutely crucial. The best help we can give the victims is, of course, support and treatment, so that they can move on in life, and, as far as possible, put the ‘sacrifice’ behind them. Some manage to integrate their experiences, while others labor more and need more community help. With this bill you should be better assured, so that you do not have financial concerns in addition to this damage. So I would like to say in the end that I am very concerned that many of the measures that are now being implemented, especially in relation to violence against children and violence against women, are being made known, and that especially children and women are using the schemes that are established. Considerable steps have been taken during this period. We have agreed on this, both the question of extending the aid system, the children's houses and also the issue of police organisation. With regard to the children's houses, I must say to the representative Aspaker that it is a pleasure to have had such a large amount of children in Bergen who have used that house. But we see the dilemmas now that those police districts that don't have children's homes get long travel routes and costs associated with this. Now the children's home in Trondheim is not fully opened yet, so the problems that you might have in Ålesund will be something we can face in the future. But I see the need for us to have a greater density of children's houses, also beyond the six that we have planned. That means that we're going significantly beyond what the Soria Moria statement says, that we're going to evaluate the creation of one children's home. As far as entry into force is concerned, we have examined the possibility of a faster entry into force in the last few days. As long as we get the Law's approval of this law and rapid sanctions, I will do what I can to get into force on 1 January.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e1383	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 231]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e1399	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will suggest that there are no replications after the individual posts, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e1406	This is probably not the most controversial case the Justice Committee has dealt with this autumn, but it is of course important. It has three main elements. The first is a possible change in the Criminal Procedures Act §§296 and 297, about the possibility of running a case without the intention of being present. Here the government has listened to the recordings that have been made, and you have chosen not to go further at this point, which the Committee fully subscribes to. The second issue of importance is the changes in the administrative and publicity law proposed by the Government to ensure that research ideas or research projects are not abused. It is also agreed by a unanimous committee. The last amendment concerns the Criminal Procedures Act, some of which are not accepted. Today, these are dealt with in the Court of First Instance by tradesmen and two co-judges. The government here proposes to make changes so that the court can be set with a single judge, a professional judge. There has been a long-standing ambition for the Committee to have a faster but equally sound and fair hearing in the courts. The majority of the committee believes that even if a layman's aspect is removed in this case, he will receive it. It is understandable, since it is believed that the target is not being hit. We in the Progress Party have been concerned about the loss of the playful aspect also in these kinds of cases. Although there are matters of not too much seriousness, it will be important for the person to be brought to justice to feel that he is being cared for in a good and sound manner. In this way, the playful aspect is an important factor. It also has a historic anchoring in Norway. And when you go away from it, at least you have to make sure that what you do is at least 100 percent correct. So, for the Progress Party, we support the intention of the Government, but we want a slight change in the law, assuming that the intention is to accept that the court is set up with only trades. In addition, there is an overall committee behind the vote. I refer to the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e1425	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e1428	I refer you to the case manager's good, short and concise orientation on the changes to reach the Government's goal of speeding up the process. And the committee is, as has been said, in most fields. The Labour Party believes that there must be a reasonable relationship between the seriousness, scale and complexity of the cases on one side and the resource use on the other. But I would strongly like to point out that, under no circumstances, the faster and more efficient handling of the case would compromise legal certainty. The plaything is a disconcerting principle in criminal justice, but this does not prevent exceptions from being made in restricted areas, as suggested in this amendment. Simplification can only take place where the court does not find the way to deal with the problem in a way that is not advisable, and where it is felt that the punishment will be no more than a fine or imprisonment than a year or that it will be fined with imprisonment up to a year. We also suggest that it should not be up to the individual aim to decide whether to deal with a case with only one subject, or with subjects and two laymen. The right shall determine the manner of handling, which shall not be up to the individual visibility. In civil proceedings, the parties are more directly responsible for the costs of the case, but apart from a possible expectation of a shorter period of time, it is difficult to see what interest the intention should have in giving such consent here. It is true that the submission involves a certain reduction of the layman's element in criminal justice, and one is at this change to the way it was before 1981, as there was also the possibility under certain circumstances of bringing forward cases without co-judgments. As the case-speaker said, we also support changes in the administration law and public health law. It is important to have appropriate framework conditions for research projects and research pages, while at the same time finding a good balance of openness and transparency. At the end of the day, I would like to point out once again that where there is a proposal for a faster procedure, this should not affect the legal certainty of those who are involved, whether they are intents or victims. That's what we think we're good at here.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e1447	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 231]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e1463	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 232]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e1479	No one has asked for the floor. The President will propose that the Odelstinget take a break until noon. 16th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 233]] – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e1502	The odelsting shall now vote in case No. 1-9.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e1510	Ten proposals have been made during the debate. It's
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e1564	There will be so much talk about proposal No. 8, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 19 The following paragraphs shall be deleted: § 3-2, sixth paragraph, § 3-3, seventh paragraph, § 11-2, third paragraph [[People's Security Act]] [[in the draft new Chapter 11]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e1604	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party, Right and Left. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 19 on public security is amended as follows: in the following provisions, the words ‘clearance of work’ shall be replaced by ‘clearance’: [[People's Security Act]] – the name of the chapter, – seventh, eighth and tenth indents of the table of contents – § 1-1, first paragraph – § 11-4, second paragraph – § 11-9, first paragraph – § 11-10, second paragraph – § 11-11, first paragraph – § 11-12, third paragraph, first and second sentences – § 11-13 the title and all paragraphs of the paragraph – § 11-14 the title and all paragraphs of the paragraph – § 11-15 heading, first, third and fourth paragraphs – Paragraphs 11-16, the heading, the first paragraph, the third paragraph, the fourth paragraph, the first sentence and the fifth paragraph, – § 11-17 – § 11-18, title, first, second, fourth, fifth and sixth paragraphs – § 11-19 the title and all paragraphs – § 11-20, heading, first paragraph and second paragraph, point (c) – Paragraphs 11-21, first paragraph, first sentence, second and third paragraphs – § 11-22, title, first paragraph and second paragraph, first sentence – § 11-12, first paragraph, first sentence, second and third paragraphs – § 11-24 all paragraphs – § 11-25, first paragraph – § 11-26, heading, first paragraph, point (b), second paragraph – § 2-6, second paragraph, first sentence – § 2-9, first paragraph, point (b) – § 3–26, third paragraph, point (e) – § 4-24, second paragraph, point (b) – § 4-25, first paragraph, point (b) – §4-48, second paragraph – § 13-2, second paragraph, sixth indent of the table of contents – § 14-6, third paragraph – § 15-9, third paragraph – 16-8 third paragraph – § 17-8, fourth paragraph – § 21-10, third paragraph – § 22-8, first paragraph, first sentence – § 22-10, seventh paragraph – § 22-12, third paragraph – § 23-3, second paragraph, No. 2 (b) The same must be done in the following other legal provisions: Law 13 December 1946 No. 21 on military retirement for military personnel – § 18 nr. 1st paragraph, 2nd and 3rd sentences – § 18 nr. 1, sixth paragraph, second and third sentences Law 13 December 1946 No. 22 on retiring from war for domestic personnel and civilians – § 23 nr. 1st paragraph, 2nd and 3rd sentences – § 23 nr. 1st, 6th, 2nd and 3rd sentences Law 3 December 1948 No. 7 on the pension scheme for seafarers – § 4, No. 3 – § 5, No. 2 – § 16 nr. 1 point (e) – § 28 nr. 2 – § 29 nr. 2nd first sentence Law of 28 June 1957 No. 12 on the pension scheme for fishermen – § 8, second paragraph, first sentence Law 6 July 1957 No. 26 on the coordination of pension and social security benefits – § 19, second paragraph, first sentence – Paragraph 20, third paragraph, first sentence – Paragraph 21, third paragraph – § 23 nr. 1st paragraph Law 12 December 1958 No 10 on occupational injury – § 11 nr. 4 first and second paragraphs – § 12 nr. 3rd paragraph, second and third sentences – § 19 nr. 1st paragraph, 2nd and 3rd sentences Law No 23 December 1988 110 on state contributions to contractual pension schemes – Paragraph 2, first paragraph, point (f) Law 26 March 1999 No. 14 on taxes on wealth and income [[tax laws]] – § 6-32, first paragraph, point (a) – § 6-81, second paragraph, second sentence – § 12-2(c) Law No. 24 March 2000 16 on occupational retirement provision [[Entrepreneurship Pensions Act]] Law No 4 July 2003 80 on introduction arrangements and Norwegian training for newly arrived immigrants [[Act of Insurance Activities]] Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 19 on popular protection is amended as follows: § 11-11 new fourth paragraph The member has the right to change the case handler once during the social security period. [[People's Security Act]] The change of case handler must be brought forward at the time of follow-up.»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e3392	Alternatively, the recommendation from the Committee shall be replaced by the first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 11-7 and proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 19 on public security is amended as follows: [[People's Security Act]] the first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 11-7 is replaced by the following: In order to be entitled to benefits under this Chapter, the member must report to the Staff Regulations of Employment and Welfare every four weeks and provide information relevant to the right to benefits.’;» [[Registration period]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e3414	Alternatively, between the recommendation from the Committee to Section 11-9 and proposal No. 1, from the Advance Party, Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 19 on public security is amended as follows: [[People's Security Act]] Paragraphs 11 to 9 are replaced by the following: Absence due to strong welfare reasons shall not lead to a reduction in benefits. Absence due to strong welfare reasons must be documented.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e3436	Alternatively, between the recommendation from the Committee to the second paragraph of Section 11-10 and the first sentence of the first paragraph of the first paragraph of Article 11-14 and proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 19 on public security is amended as follows: [[People's Security Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e3470	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e3475	Then the result will be 55 voices for the recommendation from the Committee and 22 voices for the proposal from the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party. The recommendation of the Committee has therefore been adopted. Alternatively, between the recommendation from the Committee to Section 11-13, second subparagraph, point (c), first sentence, and proposal No 6, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 19 on public security is amended as follows: [[People's Security Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e3497	President! It doesn't light up on the bulb here, so I don't know if my vote has come along.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e3502	Is there anyone else that doesn't light up? The President will then take the vote again. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e3516	Alternatively, between the recommendation from the Committee to Section 11-13, third paragraph, first sentence, and proposal No. 7, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e3537	So it's going to be over the rest of I and II even XIX.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e3548	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e3558	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e3565	During the debate, a proposal was put forward on behalf of Mr Eriksson. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e3584	Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee will be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e3605	During the debate, Per-Willy Amundsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. There is a vote on the proposal, which reads:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e4032	The progress party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e4045	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all. The President assumes that the Progress Party will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e4059	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e4067	Seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Ib Thomsen on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Left proposal No. 2, from Ib Thomsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right Proposal No. 3-7, from Ib Thomsen on behalf of the Progress Party The proposal No will first be voted on. 3–6, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e4128	There will be so much talk about proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e4516	For the new third sentence of Section 3-1, first paragraph, a proposal, no. 1, from the Progress Party, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The following new third sentence is added to the first paragraph of Section 3-1:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e4535	In Section 12-2, second paragraph, first sentence, a proposal, No. 7, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e4556	So it's going to be over the first sentence of Section 12-5. The party of progress, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e4570	So it's going to get so daunted over the rest of I and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e4580	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e4590	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e4598	Seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1 and 2, by Ib Thomsen on behalf of the Progress Party and Right proposal No. 3, by Ib Thomsen on behalf of the Progress Party, proposal No. 4, by Bent Höie on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 5, by Bent Höie on behalf of the Right Proposal No. 6, by Bjørg Tørresdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 7, from Bjørg Tørresdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e5484	Alternatively, there will be a vote between the recommendation I paragraph. 1 §21, second paragraph and §51, first paragraph and proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e5512	The recommendation from the Committee to the rest of the paragraph is then rejected. 1 and No 3 up to and including Nos. 9th@item: inlistbox The progress party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e5526	So it's going to be over number two and number two.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e5536	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e5546	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e5553	During the debate, Mr Horne presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e5596	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e5606	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e5614	During the debate, Mr Ellingsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e5680	It will be replaced by an alternative between the recommendation from the Committee to the second sentence of the first paragraph of Article II and the proposal from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e5698	The recommendation of the Committee for I, the rest of II and III and IV will then be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e5708	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e5718	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e5770	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e5780	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e5817	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e5827	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15-lower.ana.ud370e5992	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
