ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e24	The representative of Mr Sonja Irene Sjøli will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e27	On behalf of the representatives of Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, Olemic Thommessen and myself, I would like to propose a better maternity care, a safer provision of food and a better follow-up in maternity.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e32	The representative of Mr Harald T. Nesvik will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e35	On behalf of Siv Jensen and myself, I would like to make suggestions to ensure that the hospital is completed at the Radium Hospital/Montebello. I would also ask that this matter be dealt with promptly in view of the content of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e42	The representative Line Henriette Holten Hemdal will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e45	On behalf of the representative Bjørg Tørresdal and myself, I would like to propose the launch of a potential study for energy efficiency improvement in different sectors and purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e50	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e57	Having regard to the wish of the Progress Party to have its proposal dealt with quickly, the President, on the basis of the fourth paragraph of Section 26 of the Rules of Procedure, will propose that today, as case No. 2, set up Unit, so that the Storting can decide how that proposal is to be dealt with. The President will also propose that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, and the - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e85	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. AscendingSort order for mail groups We then start with the first main questions, from the representative, Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e94	There has been an acute and very special situation in connection with the decision in Health South-East not to realise the new medical hotel. It is serious because this is an offer that concerns very sick people and their relatives. There are no other hotel options in this area. It's long distances to the nearest accommodation. It is also a fact that very many of the neighbors in the area around the Radium Hospital have, over several years, put their private homes at the disposal of relatives who want to be closest to their very, very ill loved ones in a very difficult situation. In addition, in the current situation, there are private actors who have also been through cancer treatment themselves and who want to implement this private-funded project to ensure that the hospital is put in place. Then it means that there was a signal from the Government, at the Prime Minister, that he is willing to accept that private completion of this medical hotel when, unfortunately, the state has chosen to say no. Of course, it should be in the richest country in the world to build such a medical hotel, for there is a great need for it. When, for some mysterious reason, the state chooses not to do so, the aversion of the red-green government to private solutions should not stand in the way of the realization of this medical hotel for the benefit of those who are undergoing very serious treatment and all their relatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e101	First of all, I would like to say that the Government and the Stortinget believe that it is necessary to spend more money on hospitals, hospital services and offers such as: hospital hotel. That is why we have also significantly increased hospital appropriations. This year alone, we're increasing by almost $4 billion. In addition, we allocate more than NOK 3 billion to compensate for increased price and salary increases. So NOK 4 billion is a real increase after taking into account price and salary increases. This means that we are now treating more patients than ever before in Norwegian hospitals. This means that there are more Norwegian hospital employees than ever before, and this is absolutely necessary in view of new technology. Fortunately, we are getting older, so we still have to and should treat more patients, and there are still many unsolved tasks in the Norwegian health system. In addition to spending more money, we're concerned that we spend the money in a better way, because we can get more health again. We are. Because when we look at international comparisons, Norway is at the top -- either completely up, or among the countries in the world that spend the most on health, compared to the number of inhabitants. It's e.g. barely any country in the world with more doctors and nurses compared to its inhabitants. We use a lot of resources, and then we're busy getting more for it. That was why we made a health reform, including: supported by the Progress Party, where the whole point was that the Storting should determine the framework, how many patients, how much money, and then we should let the hospitals and those who were closest, decide how this should be organized. And when Health South-East believes that it is more important to spend money on the other major projects, whether there are emergency departments or new hospitals in Buskerud or Eastfold, than to fund the health hotel, it is a decision I respect, in line with the reform for which the Progress Party, the Workers' Party and many other parties were. Health South-East assessment is that this is not a gift. State budgets must be used to finance operations and capital costs for this project, and therefore Health South-East believes that other things are more important.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e108	My question was whether the Prime Minister would object to the private realization of the construction of this hospital. I said, unfortunately, that health south-east has taken the negative decision they have made, but so it's private ready to build this. And when the Prime Minister says that it's important to get more money back, get more health for every penny, it has to be great when private people are willing to take the bill, and that we also get a health hotel, for which there is a strong demand. So the lesson that the prime minister just served, we've heard a hundred times before. There's nothing new about what the Prime Minister is now saying. But what is real is that the vast majority of health enterprises are heavily underfunded as a result of strong growth in pension costs, wage costs and a number of other things. Therefore the queues are longer, and the waiting time is longer. That's the reality. In addition, it is now felt that a requested medical hotel could not risk being realized unless the Prime Minister says that it is okay for private individuals to realise it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e115	I will not at all oppose the private construction of a hospital hotel. At the same time, I fully agree with the Progress Party and the Labour Party for many years, namely that we must have respect for the hospital reform. It is Health South-East that they are more concerned with the intensive care unit at Ullevål, the Aker Operations Department, a new hospital in Buskerud and a new hospital in Østfold. They believe that the hospital hotel is coming further in line. Nor is it, as Health South-East sees it, something free of charge. They will operate and pay capital costs, and therefore this is not a free gift that does not go at the expense of other important things Health South-East operates with. Otherwise, I hear the Progress Party believes that we should spend even more money in hospitals. That's in particular excellent. But I now consider all the promises of the Progress Party as cancelled by the Right, for the Right has guaranteed that the Progress Party will have zero influence on economic policy, on monetary policy, and the Progress Party will continue to cooperate with the Right. So I'm actually going to stop caring about all the billions of Progress Party promises for all sorts of good purposes, because the Right has guaranteed that it won't be any of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e122	There will be follow-up questions - Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e125	Unfortunately, the Prime Minister's exodus is not a believer. In this case, I can only refer to proposals for board decisions on the board of directors at the Rikshospital as late as February 15, this year, about the fact that others can run economically and make this work. The proposal was as follows: ‘The board believes that a hospital at the Radium Hospital is the best solution to meet the need for overnight accommodation. The hotel supports the desired development of the business and from the start will contribute to better quality, service and logistics in patient care and provide better economic efficiency in the short and long term.’ In fact, private people have agreed to both build and operate this hospital hotel. The director of the Rikshospitalet has set up and announced that there is a better economy and also logistics by doing so. I allow myself to ask the Prime Minister the following question: Is there any other reason why we do not want to realize this hospital now, despite the fact that it is better for all parties, including the hospital economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e139	I do what the Progress Party, the Labour Party and the majority of the parties on the Stortinget agreed not so many years ago, and that is to implement the hospital reform with the responsibilities of this reform. The size was to determine how many patients were to be treated, they were to determine the main priorities and main choices, and then they were to leave to the hospitals and hospital companies, such as Health South-East, to decide how to dispose of the money within that framework. And when Health South-East believes it's more important to spend money for purposes other than the hospital hotel, I respect that. In fact, it also meant the Progress Party a short time ago, but it obviously does not believe the Progress Party anymore. I have no fundamental concerns about private giving a gift, drifting and investing in a hospital hotel. But health south-east looks a little different, because this is not a mere gift. That's something that's going to go at the expense of other important purposes, and then you think there's other things that are more important. It's a decision I respect. It is not on my table, but I respect the decision-making model that the Progress Party here in Stortinget was in favour of.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e147	No pay - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e150	It is commendable that the Prime Minister reads the Gallup so that he should start to worry about which government constellations will take over after him in a short time. But for the time being, he's in charge. I share the Prime Minister's fundamental view that when you have a responsible government, you should not take responsibility from the board. That's exactly where we agree. But the matter is a little bit more complex. My question to the Prime Minister is whether, through the Minister of Health, the Government has given clear signals to the regional health company that it is preferable not to establish a public-private cooperation on the implementation of this medical hotel project. Can the Prime Minister guarantee that this has not happened and that this decision has really been taken from below and not after political orders from above?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e157	It is quite clear that this is a decision that has been taken where it is to be taken, which is in line with what the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Labour Party and many other parties have meant, namely in Health South-East. The size must determine the limits, and then they must determine how they have the frames. And I repeat, I have nothing in principle against private investment in a hospital hotel. But the reason for Health South-East is that it will cost them, because it is not a free gift. So they're going to have to pay operations and capital costs, and then you can just as easily pay it all by yourself. It is not that a hospital hotel is necessarily unnecessary, but it is said that in view of all the other important projects, such as a hospital in Buskerud, a hospital in Østfold, an operating department in Aker and many other interesting projects, this does not come up high enough, so you choose to bring it down. I as Prime Minister will not go into that kind of individual decision. I'm not in principle against private driving it, but for me as Prime Minister, it's very important to get economic control of hospitals, that we respect the system that's going to create governance. If we intervene in these kind of individual decisions, we'll destroy that system.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e164	Knut Arild Hareide - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e167	The system we have set up to manage hospitals has also given a person full instruction to Health South-East, and it is Minister of Health Brustad. My question to the Prime Minister is, when we have now spent 30-40 million. To start a building, did both the Prime Minister and the economist think it makes sense to stop this project, when we know of the need that lies ahead here? Is there not a reason just now to go into political governance and see reason in systems, so that a project in which we have invested such large funds will not be stopped?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e174	I am absolutely sure that if the Christian People's Party had been in government, they would have meant exactly what I mean now. For the Christian People's Party has actually been a hot defender of that reform after they entered the government offices the last time. It's because they see that when we've increased the appropriations for hospitals in a few years from 55 billion kroner to 85 billion kroner and are still struggling, it's not just a matter of spending more money, it's also a matter of creating a system where we get better management of hospitals. If government councils are to start entering into individual decisions of the order of 30-40 million. kr, the system is broken. Then we've broken the system that gives us more health, both because we give more money than we've done before, and because we spend the money better.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e179	Odd Einar Doorroom - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e182	The left has respect for the reform that has been implemented, even if we voted against it. It's also the case in the main hall that we're allowed to reflect. A long life in politics, not least in a former role as Minister of Justice, has taught me that there is one perspective we often neglect in Norway, and that is taking into account relatives. I have met people who have been following sick people to hospitals for 20 years, and only after the 12th year did someone ask these relatives how they were doing. I have to admit that it is hard inwards me, because throughout my education and education I have been inclined to think that one in the profession is doing his job, and the patients and the clients get what they are going to have. Suddenly, it's like colliding with reality. That reality is that there are people we're concerned about, that's the case. We know that these people's presence matter. Does the Prime Minister not see that finding a solution in a wise and sensible way to ensure that relatives can be close to those who need it is, in fact, strengthening confidence in health care and confidence in cancer treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e191	I believe that the representative Dørum now asked a very important and good question, namely the question of how we can help improve the offer to the relatives. Firstly, I am concerned that all health companies, not just Health South-East, are doing what they can to get to it. It can be through health hotels, it can be health hotels operated under the direction of the health company, and it can be health hotels operated under private control. We also see some places now that there are actually overcapacity in some areas of health care. What we see is that someone turns traditional hospital records into health hotel records. This may be a good offer to the relatives. The crucial thing for me is that I actually think that those who are closest to the problems, those who rule and are in Health South-East, are the best way to see how we solve that problem, instead of the government's intervention and intervention in individual decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e200	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e203	The government has got a lot of well-deserved criticism for its many violations of promises. In one area, however, it seems that the red-greens have kept what they have promised, and that is their ideological warfare against private alternatives. This applies to health, rehabilitation, child protection and care. The results have now begun to report to the users of these services. We see that the hospital queues are growing and waiting time is increasing, among other things. because the government cuts in the private hospitals. Many people have to wait a long time for rehabilitation because it is cut in the supply of private training institutions. Good offers are put down. There's a dramatic increase in waiting time for children who need foster homes. At the same time, the government cuts in private offerings, and good private child protection institutions need to be shut down. The waiting time for addicts is increasing. At the same time, it was cut in the private offerings. It almost seems to be a continuous picture that the queues are growing, that people in need, people in need of help are standing in line while there are good, private offers that offer help, but that the government cuts in these because you almost have an allergy to the private solutions. Does the Prime Minister think that there is a fair, social and solidarity with such a policy, that people in need of help remain in line while there are vacancies, good places, in private institutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e223	There will be no more money from public funding for private purposes. This means that the total appropriations for health, rehabilitation and care for drug users are essential. What this government has done is increase the total appropriations. For this reason, it is dealt with, for example: far more patients now than when the Right sat in government offices. Right-wing policy is about weakening the common fund that makes us have the money to pay for health, care, well-being and many other important things, because they still want to spend billions of dollars on taxpayers rather than having money in the common fund. Then I'm in favour of having a cooperation between private and public. To a large extent, we do. For example, Diakonhememets Hospital, Lovisenberg and the Feiringklinikken are private non-commercial hospitals. We use them, we're going to use them, and they play a big and important role in the Norwegian health system. We also have private services in the care of the drug, and we will still have them. Health South-East has e.g. increased appropriations for care. It's in the form of tenders. Then there's someone who gets, and others who don't get. We spend more money on private care now than last year. But there are still some people who get no, because we have the competition for tenders that are right-wing. Then you can't say that it's wrong if someone gets no -- that's part of the system that the Right and many other parties want in some areas. In the case of hospitals, it's true that there are fewer people treated in private commercial hospitals -- we're not talking about private people like the Diakon home or Lovisenberg -- while there's been a much larger increase in treated patients in public hospitals. So overall, there's an increase in the number of patients treated. We're dealing with more now than ever. I believe that the public community must take responsibility for good health, a good offer for children, child care and child protection. I believe that there is room for private, especially non-commercial, but I am opposed to the commercialisation of the healthcare system.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e236	I think that speech makes little sense to those people who need help, but who don't get help because the government almost has allergies to private alternatives. This is not about the Government having granted more money, but about the Government having given a clear signal to the health regions of stepping down the use of private hospitals, stepping down the use of private rehabilitation institutions, stepping down the use of private child protection institutions and stepping down the use of private drug institutions. This cannot be turned away by the Prime Minister. It is a reality that the Government has given clear guidance on stepping down the use of private institutions. Now we know that in Buskerud, there is a 70-place private drugstore, but because the government has given such a clear signal that you don't have to choose private alternatives, this institution stays standing without any agreement with the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e245	I repeat, what we're concerned about is what's best for patients, for children, for those who need welfare services. We use private where we think it is right and necessary, but we believe that the public should have the primary responsibility and should, not least within the hospital community, have the main weight of the services. But there is also a lot of fault in what the representative Sanner says. In the case of private rehabilitation institutions - including appropriations for private drug institutions - the appropriations from Health South-East have increased by 12.6 p.m. over the last year. There are many who offer in a tendering process, and so it is that someone gets yes and others get no. That's when there's competition. If the Right is going to run after all those who have got no, and say that they have to get yes, you have removed the whole point with the Right for.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e252	There will be follow-up questions - first No pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e255	There will be no more money buying private treatment facilities, says the Prime Minister. That's right, of course. On the other hand, it may be that you get significantly more for the same money. It is a fact that when the Government contributes to the closure of well-established private rehabilitation institutions, or to half-machinery, while the government builds up under its own control, the cost of daily prices is three to four times higher. That is, you only get the quarter so much left for the money, and that should interest a social economist, I should think. I have a couple of other numbers that I would like the Prime Minister's comment on: During the last year, the purchase of private health insurance in Norway increased by 77 pst. It's an increase that began after the red-green government took over. At Aleris Private Hospital in Oslo, the number of people paying out of their own wallet has doubled five times in the last calendar year. The red-green government is thus developing a two-part health and care service in Norway. What comment does the Prime Minister have on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e262	I stress that the crucial thing about how well we have for healthcare and other types of welfare services is how much we set aside of the total value creation to fund it. This government has increased the appropriations for rehabilitation, for health, for drugs, for many other important welfare purposes. We can do that because we don't spend billions on tax credits. We use them on welfare instead. The second is that we are busy getting the most back for the money. That's why we choose a combination of private and public where we think it serves patients and users. That is why we have, for example: The celebration clinic and the Diakon home, and that's why we also use commercial providers in some contexts when the public has nothing to offer. We have many examples of the public getting better use of capacity by using its own capacity. We see it within, among other things, x-ray and lab, where the private share has fallen, and where the public has gone up, because we're using our own capacity. It is cheaper and better than using the private commercial ones that not only cover costs but also cover the return and earnings of the owners. So I feel like it's the Right that has ideological skyscrapers here. We're busy doing the best for patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e271	Sive Jensen - to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e274	The Prime Minister will now have a fine opportunity to do the best for patients by simultaneously removing this so-called misunderstanding that the red-greens have aversion to private solutions. The Prime Minister can do this by asking the Minister of Health to make it clear to Health South-East that they want private people to get away with building the hospital at the Radium Hospital. So this kind of clarification solves this problem, so you don't have to take down the rig that's ready, the construction that's started, and the hospital can be realized in a few months. This may help the Prime Minister to clarify. Then I want to correct a couple of errors that the Prime Minister has just made. In Health South-East they themselves have said that by sending patients to nearby hotels they have to pay a daily price of approx. NOK 1 300, while if they can do it on their own or through a private hotel in the Radium Hospital, this can be done at a much lower daily rate. In other words, you have estimated a saving of 15 million. kr of the year!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e281	I think it's a fundamental misunderstanding that Siv Jensen builds on, that I or the Government of the Minister of Health have refused to go further with the hospital hotel. We have not done that, but we have done two things: we have practised what the Progress Party and the Workers' Party are for, namely the hospital reform, where it is up to Health South-East to decide how to use their money within the limits granted. That's the one. We stand by the guiding principle that I believe is important to keep order throughout the hospital system. The second is that Health South-East rating is that this is not a free gift from private donors. This is something to be financed by Health South-East budgets by covering capital costs and operating costs. It would then go beyond something else that Health South-East believes is more important, such as. emergency departments and new hospitals elsewhere in the country. I haven't made that decision, and I'm not going to go into it. That decision has been made by Health South-East, and I respect it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e288	President! To a manifest misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e293	Ingredient S. Sørfonn - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e297	There are some fundamental differences between private actors in the health and care sectors. The difference goes between the commercial and non-profit organisations. The difference goes far beyond the fact that the commercial drives for profit, while the ideals don't. The situation of many institutions run by non-profit organisations is not as idyllic as the Prime Minister gives the impression here. Haraldsplatz Diakonale Sjukehus in Bergen is an example of this. Furthermore, non-profit organisations are an important complement and corrigendum to public health and care services. Research shows that a society that has an active voluntary organisation life is scoring high in many areas. I wonder if the Prime Minister sees this, as long as the government pursues a supply policy that threatens the supply from voluntary organisations to thousands of patients, children, the elderly and drug addicts. Since the Pollen season is now ahead of us, is this about a volunteer allergy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e304	I very much agree with the representative of Sørfonn and believe that Frivilligkeits-Norway, ideal Norway and Organisational Norway are making a formidable and very good effort in the Norwegian welfare community in many areas - health, care for the cattle, child protection, etc. That's why I think we should pursue a welfare policy where there's room for this kind of non-commercial non-profit organisation and institution, for example. The Church's Bymission, the Salvation Army and many others. It's also one of the reasons why I'm cautious about what I feel the two right parties, the Right and the Advance Party, stand for, namely an ideological desire to use the market where the market does not work, use competitive outsourcing and market mechanisms where it does not work. That is also why I hope that the Christian People's Party clearly sees this, so that they do not support the Right's policy in this area around Norwegian municipalities, where one is driven unilaterally by a market thinking, which not only affects the public, but also very often affects private non-profit organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e309	Anne Margrethe Larsen - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e312	In fact, the newest state councilman, Anniken Huitfeldt, has been quite clear about saying that in child protection, the child's needs must be ahead of ideology. I have a quote from the Evening Post on April 4 where she says the following: ‘Ideology shall not stand in the way of the best interests of the child — their needs come first’. Nevertheless, a few weeks ago we experienced quite a lot of noise around the institution of Wvalstad for minor asylum seekers aged 15 to 18. The institution is crowded, but they're doing the best they can. It is only government institutions that this government will invest in. Nevertheless, many minor children are alone in the world, having traumas, and need help. At the same time, there are recognised child protection institutions, including: Cocoon resource center in Farsund, with uplifted beds, ready to accommodate children with trauma and children who have been trafficked. Does the Prime Minister not see here ideology coming in front of children?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e322	I fully agree with Mr Huitfeldt that ideology should not stand in the way of children's interests. Then there's something very wrong with ideology. You should not have an ideology that does not ensure that you care for the needs of the weakest, for example. a child. That's why within the field of child protection, we've always had a combination of public and private institutions. I can't and will not mean anything about each institution. What I think is that those responsible around the different institutions must always assess both the quality and the use of capacity in their own institutions. It is the kind of concrete assessment of what serves the best of children, which determines whether you choose a public institution or a private institution. But there's nothing fundamentally wrong with having private inside, for example. the protection of children. We have a lot of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e327	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e330	I'll continue where the Prime Minister left off. He concluded that we need the voluntary, non-profit institutions, and that we should not so much use market principles and bidding principles in relation to voluntary, non-profit activities. What's interesting is that under this government, the opposite is about to happen. The fossil collective is an ideal foundation, offering young drug users between 16 and 23 years of age. Here these young people get a new chance in life. They do not need to be placed with older, worn-out drug addicts. They get the offer they need. Nevertheless, the Fossum Collective did not renew its agreement with the State recently. The reason was that the foundation did not reach a tendering process, of which there are more and more in this area. The economy was most important. An increasing number of voluntary drug, care and child protection institutions are being tendered during this government. This is despite the fact that the EEA Agreement opens up the possibility of exempting non-governmental organisations in the healthcare sector from tendering requirements, which our neighbouring countries Denmark and Sweden use to a greater extent. It's unacceptable. It looks like the government thinks it's better that these people are in a state line than that they get help from a voluntary non-profit institution. Instead of today’s market thinking, the Christian People’s Party wants legislation to ensure a diversity of actions in the health and care sector. This isn't about machines and buildings, it's about people. It is essential here to provide predictable and long-term offers to vulnerable persons and to ensure diversity and choice. The Christian People's Party has made a proposal here in Stortinget that non-governmental organisations providing health and care services on a non-profit basis, as the Prime Minister speaks of, are exempted from the tendering requirement of the Public Acquisitions Act. My natural question to the Prime Minister, after what he has said here in the Grand Duchy today, is: Will the Prime Minister live up to what he has said, and support the proposals of the Christian People's Party, or will he risk losing thousands of child-restraint children, the elderly and drug addicts?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e341	I believe that what the representative Højbrätt now addresses is an important issue. Let me first highlight a couple of basic things. One is that in this area, too, it is the total appropriations, the overall framework, which is crucial for how much we can offer, for example. in the care of russians. In the case of the grant item for voluntary drug work, it is now nearly 120 million. kr. There has been a significant increase in recent years. We have also increased other support schemes for drug work. Then we can make more offers. You could be for or against increasing this even more, but the total frames are important. So we've had an interesting debate here in Stortinget in this half hour. First, I got significant questions from the right parties, the Right and the Advance Party, where they wanted more commercial items, more free competition, tenders and that kind of thing. Now I get what I think is a more important issue on the table, namely: is it the way commercials go too far, the tendering goes too far, so that not the public loses, but those who stand between the commercial and the public, namely the voluntary non-commercial, lose? It's a problem I'm willing to look at, because we're dedicated to having strong non-governmental organisations. They make an important contribution in many welfare areas of the Norwegian community. I want to be careful to interpret EEA legislation on a standing floor, because it is a complex and complex piece of legislation, but in some of these areas there are strict rules on public tenders, which at least restrict to some extent the possibility of choosing some private rather than others private. We're going to look at that legislation and look at what legal opportunities we have, and what can be politically correct. In any case, in this area, as in the earlier areas that have been discussed, I believe that we need a combination of public and non-profit individuals, and in some areas it is also true to use commercial as a supplement.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e352	Can I interpret the Prime Minister to the point that he will investigate the scope of action of the Government in relation to exempting voluntary non-profit institutions and institutions active in the health and care sector from bidding rounds, and that he will adjust policies and practices according to the scope of action for such derogations? If that's the case, I would say that through this questioning, we have brought a very important case for very many volunteers here in the country a good deal further. The problem is that the Prime Minister gives health companies a steering signal that says: Don’t use these, or use them to a lesser extent. I will quote from a report to Aker Hospital, which is responsible for the drug treatment in Health South-East. That's what it says. ‘The use of private institutions is, as desired, significantly below the target.’ The Prime Minister must then also review the governance signals given to health businesses, so that they do not interpret it in such a way that the Government is actually against everything that is private, whether it is non-profit, voluntary or commercial.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e364	The government has been very clear and clear that we are not opponents - on the contrary, we are followers - of the private people who are not commercial. These are the types of institutions such as the Diakon home, the Lovisenberg Hospital, the Feiringklinik and the institutions in the care sector that in recent years have received more money for drug work from non-governmental organisations. To the extent that some control signal has gone out, it is that we have wanted to reduce the use of the commercial ones. And there I understand that the representative of the Høybräten agrees with the Government, because the Høybräten is also concerned that the commercial gets too much space and goes at the expense of the private ideal organizations. Then I just want to say that I want to look at the code. I want to look at arguments for and against, and we want to use the space for action that must be there. I won't say anything more than what I have cover for. We're going to look at the legislation, and look at arguments for and against, because I'm basically also a strong supporter of private non-commercial organisations and believe that commercials can create imbalances in many welfare societies.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e371	It's going to be follow-up questions -- first Bjørg Tørersdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e375	It is positive that the Prime Minister will focus on the important work of non-profit organisations in many areas, including: rehabilitation. The Norwegian patient registry reports that from 2005 to 2006 there have been 16 psts. fewer daily-based stays in training establishments. And an increasing proportion of patients who want to use exercise have to pay for this themselves. It helps to increase differences in Norway. The Christian People's Party fears that this tendering policy that we have focused on in this questionnaire can lead to voluntary sector offers being built down to the advantage of commercial players and the state – and it is growing. I'll take an example. The coating at Skogli Health and Rehabilitation Centre has fallen. In 2005, they had 135 beds, in 2007 64 beds. They have now got an agreement through Health South-East and NAV and can again offer a few more beds, but it is temporary, and there is little predictability for the employees in terms of further operations. Does the Prime Minister see that the outcome of the tendering policy can lead to a society in which the non-profit organisations lose their weight in this important work?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e386	I still believe that this is an important issue, and I believe that the debate we have had today has illustrated very clearly that when we use the word ‘private’, you think very easily different things. When the Right Party and the Advance Party talk about private, as they did at the beginning of the debate, they talk about the private commercials. I think you should be careful about using them in welfare production. I'm not saying they don't have a role. They have a role to play. We have commercial there too, but I believe that it can be at the expense of both the desire for an equivalent offer and the valuable contribution of the private ideal non-commercial, for example. Christian organizations, provide. That's why I think it's worth looking at both the room the legislation provides, and arguments for and against changing that legislation. So we're going to look at that, but I can't finally say what the conclusion is.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e391	Harald T. Nesvik - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e394	It is clear that the Prime Minister is more concerned with who owns the institution than with who offers the institution. It must then be the offer that is most important for those who are to receive it. It is important that we have a variety of offers, so that some of us - we react differently - may have something to choose from, so we can get help eventually. The Prime Minister was concerned about the importance of having many different types of offers. Yes, then it is strange that the Fossanåsen Center for Drug Abuse has not been agreed, and that ValdresClinic must close the doors, because they do not get patients. We see several rehabilitation institutions that don't get paid for the quality they give. The question in this case is not whether you are using a tender or not, but what is included in the tender sent out. I have the following questions for the Prime Minister: Will the Prime Minister ensure that the quality criterion is given a much greater place when you put things on the market, so that the quality of the offer is guaranteed, regardless of whether it is one or the other that is on the payroll of those who work there?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e405	First the basics. What I'm concerned about is that we're getting a stronger offer for those who need drug treatment, health care and other types of welfare services. That is why we have granted more. It is dealt with several times, and there are several people who receive an offer. Then I believe that the public must have the primary responsibility. The public must finance it, and it must be a fissure layer. That's why I'm against tax relief and for money to that fissure layer. But then I'm saying that there's room for others -- we have a long history of having not least private non-commercial types of organisations, etc. So it's like when we first open up to have tenders, which we have in some areas, or at least negotiations with different private ones, it'll sometimes be that you, among other things. on the basis of a quality assessment, it is concluded that it should be commissioned, not. Then, as Prime Minister, I cannot sit and say that every no in such a competition is to be tested. That's where I actually rely, in the case of drugs, on health businesses. They have been granted increased appropriations, they have increased the appropriations for the purchase of ru services, and then they have used them at that institution instead of at that institution. I do not intend to go in and review the individual decisions. I intend to increase the appropriations, so that there may be more treatment for those who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e426	Sonja Irene Sjøli - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e429	The Prime Minister must stop spreading falsehoods about the Right Policy. We want a diversity, and we want an interaction between public and private. The main problem with drug treatment is that the government of Stoltenberg has not been willing to give priority to those at the bottom of the table. Subjects in the drug field have stated that they have been admitted to the table by the previous health ministers, at the bottom right, but that Brustad pushes the drug field back under the table. It has also been pointed out that the appropriations are the worst in eight years. So I want to ask Stoltenberg to spare people his mantra that the hospitals and the municipalities have got more money. In the real world, there's a cut in the offer. I would like to ask the Prime Minister if he can be acquainted with being the head of government who has done the least for those who need it the most, namely the addicts. We have to be willing to prioritize them. If we as central politicians can't do that, they'll be a balancing position. The government's policy so far shows that it involves the closure of offers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e438	As far as I heard, the representative said it was wrong that the hospitals and the municipalities had received more. It's not wrong, it's quite right. This government has provided significantly more money for hospitals and significantly more money for municipalities. That doesn't mean that it's enough, but that means that it's now more spent on care, more on those who have it the hardest, than when the Right put in government. For example: Health south-east, they have increased the appropriations for the purchase of ru services. However, that does not mean that everyone who submits a tender is awarded the tender. Health South-East assesses quality, costs and self-capacity, and then they choose someone over others. This must be the case when there is a tendering procedure or negotiations with different private suppliers. The fact that someone gets no is not proof that something is fundamentally wrong. It just means that even though the framework increases and we grant more for the purchase of private ruservices, it's not that everyone gets a yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e445	Odd Einar Doorroom - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e448	As a citizen and a city missionary, I need to say something. There is no doubt that people with drug problems thought they would get a better offer when everything was put in the healthcare system. And it's a fact that there are 70 fewer private treatment sites in Health South-East now. That's 440, that's 370. That's also the case, if I've been properly informed, that now there's only one place where you get help more than one year. Anyone who has the slightest indication of help to people with drug problems knows that most people need help for more than one year. It doesn't help to make the world's best perfect tender document based on unforgivable administrative light if you forget the people who need help, behind this. So I want to ask the Prime Minister to go into the ombudsman role, look at what's going on in these systems, see who's left behind. It may be that the formal light is unnegligible, that the management economy is completely correct, but there is something wrong when the systems are so that people stay behind and don't get the help that they should have and that we politicians wanted them to have. Is not the Prime Minister concerned about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e457	I am very concerned about the enormous problems and human tragedies associated with drug abuse - drug abuse, alcohol abuse, drug abuse in general. It's about prevention, and it's about treatment, rehabilitation. We've granted more, and we're going to continue to grant more, because it's still too little. But in addition to prevention and treatment, it is also about something else: it is about respect, human dignity, not denying that there is no lack of respect for people in deep life crises. So I think we, as citizens of society and as political leaders, as well as giving money and adopting laws and regulations, also have something to do with conveying an attitude to the people affected by drugs. I think that too will help and remedy the problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e465	Then Odd Einar Dørum can be standing to ask the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e468	If the President allows me five existing seconds in respect of both the Prime Minister and me, I will begin now. The Prime Minister often uses fine words about having the world's best school, but seems unprepared for what is needed to get to the right actions. Let me give the Prime Minister a quick course in reality. We have just received numbers from the Coordinated admission to teacher training, which shows that there is a decrease in the general teacher training application, a decrease in the five-year training application, a decrease in the vocational training application. So we know last year it was 17 pst. The number of applicants for general teacher training has decreased and, according to our country, since 1996, we have halved the number of applicants for general teacher training, so that we now have only as many applicants as we have places. In addition, we know that in a few years we will really lack teachers because of the age distribution of the teachers who are now working in school. This is a reality that requires action, and the Left has tried to bring elements into the debate. When we promote proposals for systematic further training for teachers to feel status and respect and in the profession, it is downrooted by the red-greens. When we propose that we have national recruitment plans to recruit teachers on a broad basis, it's downrooted by the red-greens. When we then promote proposals to improve the quality of teacher training, with more professional immersion, more pedagogy and more practice, the red-green mice sit still, because they are waiting for a big message. Is it now such that the Prime Minister is doing something more than promising big messages that are waiting for him, or is it such that he is simply leading a government that is not prepared for the practical and concrete actions that are needed to give us good teachers and many enough teachers in this country of ours?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e479	First, I would like to say that in the school debate we have to strike a balance between seeing the problems and not black-painting. There are many challenges and problems in Norwegian school. There's a lot that doesn't work well enough, but there's also a lot that works very well. If we don't get it, I think we just weaken the school further, the motivation to become a teacher weakens, the recruitment of the teaching profession further. In fact, what works well in Norwegian school is that the vast majority learn what they need to learn. Our schools contribute less to social inequality, actually more to social education, than the schools in most other countries. We score high on some goals in international statistics, but then we work on others, for example. in some natural sciences and in some linguistic subjects. Then the teacher is the key. That is why we want to strengthen both the training of teachers and the continuing training of teachers. This was a main message in my New Year's speech, and since then we have had close dialogue with the school's people, not least many teachers. What we're working on now is actions related to a couple of three things: one is to strengthen teacher training. What we're looking at is the possibilities for more time for immersion in special subjects. The second is that teachers tell us that they want more practice. They've been in teacher's school for many years, but almost not taught. And the third is learning through more time for pedagogics. In the case of continuing training of teachers, the main message we get is that we have too many short courses and too little systematic re-training. All of this will be presented in the paper. I have respect for big messages, because that's the way the government can put forward its proposals, discuss them with the Storting and then follow them up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e490	My post was delivered in love with the school, to good teachers, to great people who do something. The point must be that they must know that they have successors. The point must be that they really get the professional satisfaction they are entitled to. It's showing respect for what's the building block in school. I myself have come out of a seven-year-old primary school, and what was it that taught me? Well, that teachers who were good teachers in their profession and safe as adults carried most through most. It is this declaration of love that was the basis of my serious question to the Prime Minister. It is often the case that we in Norway have created good responses locally, and it has built itself nationally. Perhaps the most serious example is that the welfare society, the welfare state, would say, was built through the welfare community, not least in the city we are now in, Oslo. So in Oslo it's decided to invest in systematic further education for the teachers in Oslo school - it starts in the autumn. Is it the case that the Prime Minister wants to get involved and learn from this action and turn it into something that we can also invest in nationally, given that we are building from below in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e501	I think we have a lot to learn from many municipalities in school policy, because it's a diversity, and many have very good experiences and good results. I've looked at what you do in Oslo. We've also talked to other municipalities. And once again, because the local economy is strengthened, it is easier for more municipalities to invest more in the school, whether it is in the form of several hours, which is now coming, or it is in the form of more continuing training of teachers. A rather significant sum was spent from the previous government to the continuing training of teachers. We have continued the appropriations, and we need to look at how we can now handle that money in the future, so that there is money for the further training of teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e508	There will be follow-up questions - Vera Lightcloth.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e511	I am very pleased that the Prime Minister has expressed ambitious goals for the school, and in that I hope he also includes the school for the Sami students here in the country. In the Sami school we lacked and have for a long time lacked Sami textbooks. This is something I have focused on up to several times in this room without any improvement for that reason. Now it turns out that it says and has been for a long time around 150,000 new, ready-made Sami textbooks stored on different publishers around, and it has not benefited the Sami students and teachers in any way. With reference to the ambitious goals he has for school, will the Prime Minister turn words into practical action and ensure that this matter is resolved as soon as possible, so that the Sami students throughout the country can receive the textbooks and the training they require?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e518	I believe as the questioner that all children in Norway, including Sami children, are entitled to good education and that Sami children are entitled to learning materials in Sami. I do not know that there are 150 000 textbooks in stock around the Norwegian publishing house, but I will take that back to the Ministry of Knowledge and ask them to investigate the matter. The Government of the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Inclusion will shortly present its own major policy message. Education is an important part of that communication in order to ensure the same educational rights as other parts of the population in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e525	Anders Anundsen - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e528	If you are going to recruit teachers, it is important that your teacher's job becomes attractive, and further training opportunities for teachers are part of the way to make your teacher's job attractive. We hear what the Prime Minister is answering the questions here today, and we have heard what the representatives of the government parties have said earlier about continuing training. It is almost like hearing the opposition's proposals being repeated both by the Prime Minister and by school-political speakers for the government parties. Among other things, Education No. 7 says Gerd Janne Kristoffersen, Minister of Education Policy for the Government Parties: "We must put in place a system for continuing training of teachers." A few days later, the government parties vote against concrete proposals from the Advance Party and the other opposition to ensure a good system of continuing training for teachers. Will the Prime Minister now ensure that there is a better match between what the Prime Minister and education politicians in the government parties say and what the same parties do when voting in the main hall?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e533	It's a very common -- what should we say -- method from the opposition parties, and especially from the Progress Party, just to put in a lot of suggestions. For many years, we have voted against proposals that only come over the table in Stortinget, because we want good preparation and quality assurance before we finally implement measures, for example. to strengthen teacher training. That is why we have notified measures - and there will be measures - to strengthen teacher training in the big news given to the Stortinget. This will provide a basis for the necessary strengthening of teacher training. We are going to present our proposals, vote for them and invite the opposition to a broad majority for that type of proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e539	Gunnar Gundersen - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e542	‘Balance regime’, said the Prime Minister in his first reply. I get a little provoked when I hear that you should always pay attention to the fact that things work well, and that there has to be a balance. It helps one of the five out of school with problems with reading and writing skills, terribly little, when you don't focus on actually having big challenges in school. There was a change of pace under the previous government. Then the Prime Minister also says that he wants to strengthen teacher training. Well -- the national virtue that Council of State Djupedal announced has gone over two years waiting for a big message, despite the fact that many of the challenges were only operational challenges -- it's going on management, it's going to analyse the numbers of teacher training, and it's getting to grips with the issues on a daily basis. The Prime Minister has linked the success of the school to his own position in the form of the new year. We've had three lost years in focusing on knowledge, quality and demands at school, and I just want to ask, when is the change of pace coming, or is it the last year also going to be a lost year?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e549	First of all, I don't think the voters and the school deserve us to do some sort of blackmail between the parties about the problems at school, because different parties have been in government responsibility, and different parties have to admit that if we had a very simple recipe on how we ensure quality, this would have been done a long time ago. Secondly, concrete things have been done while we have been in government responsibility. One is that it has been provided for several hours. Norwegian children in primary school have fewer hours than most children in other European countries - now there are several hours in languages and mathematics. That is what we believe we can strengthen the quality. The other thing we've done is we've given significantly more money to the municipalities. It also provides a basis for improving the quality of school. And the third is that every year there is extra funding for the further education of teachers. Therefore, there is more continuing training of teachers now than before. The challenge is that the content of this continuing training may be a little too short. There is a need for something more systematic in terms of continuing vocational training, and that is what we are now looking at.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e554	Dagrun Eriksen - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e557	These several hours referred to by the Prime Minister are carried out in school buildings which, unfortunately, are not of the quality they should have been. It is serious when the Education Directorate and the Social and Health Directorate report that more than half of reported school buildings are in violation of the law. A poor work environment prevents well-being, prevents motivation, and prevents good learning. Here I had actually expected that the Government and the Ministry of Knowledge, when that report came, took responsibility and wanted to attend and create a good school. Instead, we hear in the NRK State Secretary, who is now going to send a sharp letter about “skärpings” to the municipalities again. It has become a reference every time there are challenges that the school has to address. This feels the Christian People's Party becomes a disclaimer. We have had a successful loan arrangement - free of interest. The Christian People's Party wanted to continue it. Shouldn't the government also be involved in implementing that scheme, instead of again blaming the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e562	The key to the quality of Norwegian school buildings is the overall framework for Norwegian municipalities. They have increased significantly. It's the municipalities that own, operate and maintain the school buildings, and we've done the step-up with earmarked grants that we promised, and we've put on a few extra billion there - more governments have done it. But now we believe that it is important that we also trust the municipal politicians, and in some municipalities it may be that what is needed most are more teachers in relation to the number of students; in other municipalities, what is needed most is the renovation of a school building. That's why we're giving money more as free money, less as earmarked funds. They can be used in school anyway, but we think that the needs vary between different municipalities. In some places it's about the contents of the classrooms, in other places it's about cleaning up the classrooms, and that's why we think the municipalities have to decide for themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e567	So the oral questioning process is over. As previously agreed, we will now deal with case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e584	The Presidency proposes that the matter be sent to the Health and Welfare Committee. Siv Jensen has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e589	Initially, this is a matter that is very urgent, not least because you are about to tear down the rig on the plot. But because the Prime Minister in the Questionnaire stated that he would not object to the private building of a medical hotel, I see it as such a positive signal that we accept the attitude to send it to the committee for treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e594	Several have not asked for the word.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e603	The size would then go back to case No. 1, regular Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e617	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. - It is deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative of Mr Ingreig S. Sørfonn to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Defence on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been removed. Question 8, from the representative Martin Engeset to the Minister for the Environment and Development, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 9, from the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen to the Minister for the Environment and Development, will be answered by the Minister for Knowledge on behalf of the Minister for the Environment and Development, who has left. Question 13, from the representative Mr Bård Hoksrud to the Minister of Justice, has been transferred to the Minister of Labour and the Minister of Inclusion who is directing him. Question 17, from the representative Anders Anundsen to the Minister of Knowledge, is moved and answered at the request of the Council of State for question 9, to be answered by the same Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e637	The question is as follows: ‘The interest rate has been increased by 3,5 percentage points under the current government. This, together with international financial turmoil, results in banks lending rates of 8-9 per cent and are more than doubled for the vulnerable mortgage market. It is estimated that several hundred thousand households are already at the limit of their tolerability. Does the Council of State consider that fiscal policy has a role in this situation, and in that case how will she use it to improve the situation of those with rapidly rising housing costs?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e646	In the high economic cycle in which the Norwegian economy is involved, a gradual normalisation of the level of interest rates has been natural. A gradual rise in interest rates was notified by the Bank of Norway long before this government took over. Since the spring of 2005, when the Right controlled the Ministry of Finance, it has been clear that interest would rise. In this context, I would also like to remind you of the Governor's answer to Mr Sanner's question during the consultation in the Grand Duchy on monetary policy last year on the consequences for interest rates of a fiscal policy that is weakly expansive today. The central bank manager then said: ‘The most important thing about the fact that we now have interest rate increases is that the interest rate was so low - it was so low in Norway, and it was so low out there. The fact that we have had such an abnormally low interest rate has created growth in the economy, and there we have to answer with interest rate increases." In the fourth quarter of 2007, the average lending rate in banks was 6.65 pst. Statistics on average lending interest rates in the first quarter of 2008 are not released until the end of May, but that the level of interest rates should be as high as 8-9 pst, as indicated in the question of the fleet representative, does not seem likely. If people have mortgage interest rates of that magnitude, I would recommend that they contact the bank and investigate what other banks can offer. There has been a record increase in employment in recent years. There have never been so many people at work. Unemployment is very low, and 200,000 more are working now than in 2005. There are 160 000 more than the Bank of Norway predicted in spring 2005. The positive developments in the labour market and the high income growth over several years have given many households a much better economic armament and a safer life base. It is important for those with increased housing costs. The main objective of economic policy for our government is low unemployment and sustainable growth. That's what we focus on when we conduct an economic policy that contributes to a balanced development in the Norwegian economy, and that interest rates do not become unnecessarily high. We follow the rule of action, just as previous governments have done. It provides for a gradual escalation in the use of oil revenues as the trend in the expected real return of the State Pension Fund - abroad. But of course, we have to look at what is the capacity of the Norwegian economy, how we handle the rule of action, which initially calculated a real return of 4 pst. from year to year. Now we have a situation of pressure in the Norwegian economy, which is why we have retained in the last budgets regarding the use of oil money. It is in line with how almost the whole of the Storting has set up economic policy, including the Right. After all, the representative Fleet comes from a party that has not at any time proposed an alternative economic policy in relation to the framework proposed by the Government, which would have any bearing on the level of interest rates. If, instead, the Government were to set up budgetary policy with a view to achieving the main objective of not least unemployment but lowest interest rates, it would have to be cut on a very large number of areas. This would mean public funding for school, health, care, kindergartens, railways, transport, etc. would have been streamlined and cut in billions of dollars-class. That's why I believe that in line with our platform, we have been able to find the balance point that takes into account the most important things in the economy, and that an interest rate of between 5 and 6 pst. is what the Bank of Norway calls a normal level of interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e664	The background to my question is the concern of all the borrowers who now receive a significantly higher interest rate. Those who have a loan of about 1.5 million. kr, has increased its interest expenses by up to NOK 40000 per year. I perceive that the Minister of Finance's message to them is nothing but that this is a normalization of the level of interest rates. My question was what she might think of doing in relation to fiscal policy. I get an answer that the Right does not have any alternatives. My question is primarily about what alternatives the Minister of Finance has to do with this. For the normal level, the borrowers do not experience the normal situation. They have entered this loan market in the period from 2001 and have had a completely different relationship to what was normal. Does this have any bearing on what the Minister for Finance thinks about fiscal policy in the future, in the future budgets?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e673	It is of great importance to the way we think about the 2009 budget, which we are now preparing, that the budget itself should not contribute to an abnormal growth in interest rates. That's why we've kept track of the use of oil money. What's not relevant to our government is cutting billions of dollars in public budgets to keep an abnormally low interest rate over time. There is no one who has taken up loans now, which may have been unknown that interest was going to approach a more normal level. Norges Bank has said that, and I've been saying that ever since I started. So this doesn't come as a surprise to anyone. The abnormally low level of interest rates has also contributed to a stronger growth in housing prices than would otherwise have been the case, thus affecting many who have been in the start-up phase.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e682	In October 2005, when the Bondevik government delivered its last budget, the estimate of the interest rate was less than 3.5 pst. in April 2008 and a maximum level of less than 4 pst. I think it's talking about a normalized interest rate, and then I want to go back to, for example. The 1990s, long before both the rule of action, inflation targets and globalisation, are of little comfort to those borrowers who are now struggling with strong interest rates. For hundreds of thousands in this country, housing costs are also well-being. The question to the Minister of Finance is therefore once again: is she going to take a stronger approach to budgetary policy in view of the fact that we are now seeing such undesirable developments for many borrowers?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e689	I think that the representative Fleet should ask that question to himself, because the Right has not provided any alternative state budgets to indicate that an abnormally low interest rate in Norway had continued. If you were to do that, you would have to cut billions of dollars in public budgets. Right hasn't done that. Now it's like the happy news since spring 2005, when Norway's Bank expected interest rates to rise to 4.8 pst. In 2008, there were far more people employed than they believed at the time, about half the total number of people employed. 160,000. And no one manages to keep a historically low unemployment over time with an abnormally low interest rate. It has no recipe on the right, and no one else has a recipe on it. So I think the Right would do the homework before they go out and give the impression that if it had still been a bourgeois government, you would have had an abnormally low interest rate in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e699	This question, from the representative of Mr Ingreig S. Sørfonn to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Defence on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e702	I am grateful that the Minister of Defence will answer my question. The question is as follows: ‘In 2006, Israeli solar data Ehud Goldwasser and Eldad Regev were kidnapped by Hezbollah, while soldier Gilad Shalit was kidnapped by Palestinians. Being a prisoner/gissel of cynical terrorists over a long period of time is an inhumane impression. About a year ago, the U.D. confirmed that they were in contact with Hamas about the cases. What has the Foreign Minister done since then, and what further will he do to help the Israeli solar data be released?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e711	As was said, the Israeli soldiers Regev and Goldwasser were abducted by Hezbollah. Norway has no dialogue with Hezbollah on this matter. Gilad Shalit was abducted by Hamas. From the Norwegian side, we have raised this matter with Hamas on a humanitarian basis, among others. on request from Shalit's father. Norway’s involvement in this matter has also been through contacts with relevant actors. It is Norwegian view that a solution related to the question of the exchange of prisoners will be decisively capable of creating a better climate between the parties, also in order to find solutions to other problems that appear to be stuck. This has been communicated to the relevant parties. In Norway, the question of the treatment of both Israeli and Palestinian prisoners has also been raised repeatedly with the relevant parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e722	I thank the Council of State for your answer. The background to my question is that I know that there was a contact with Hamas. It was reported in the Newspaper for approx. a year ago. But after that time it has been an earless quiet. In any case, the general record has not been made that anything has happened since that time. This is a deep human tragedy for both those who are in debt and, of course, for those who are relatives. There shouldn't be so much imagination to understand. With the state of Israel celebrating this year's 60th anniversary, it would have been a gesture to Israel if one could help resolve this situation. It would clearly have consequences far beyond the individuals involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e731	I understand that it may be desirable to know more about these matters, but what is being registered from the Norwegian side is that there are already negotiations on these kidnapping cases between the parties involved - in the case of the Shalit case also through Egyptian intervention. Norway does not intend to take part in these negotiations. We are also aware that the Shalit case was discussed in a meeting between Hamas and former President Jimmy Carter on April 21. Hamas then promised to comply with a request from Carter to have Shalit send letters to their parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e738	Yes, I have a great understanding of the way in which the Minister of Defense expresses himself in this matter, but at the same time it is very important that the public is busy with it if one is to solve this. Because we live in a media time where things pop up. Then it becomes silence around it -- and then a lot of deep tragedy. So maybe it could have been solved-- it'll just be lying there. My point is that Norway has had and has great confidence in the different parties in the Middle East conflict, and it is important that we both use and strengthen this trust. So I choose to interpret the Government's answer positively in the way that this is a matter that one has not put on the shelf, but that one uses the channels that exist, to get it solved. I might also hope that my question can further contribute to that happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e745	I can only confirm what was said by the questioner, that Norway has great confidence in the Middle East conflict. But in these cases it is done as explained in the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e753	I am delighted to ask the following questions to the Minister for Research and Higher Education: ‘The Bergen Higher Education Environment sees the construction stop situation as very serious. The government has justified the situation with pressure on the construction market. Now there are clear signs that the pressure is decreasing. Among other things, the forecasting centre shows a decrease of 20 pst. for the start-up of new dwellings in 2008. The first 3 years of higher education will result in a maximum limited activity of respectively. $80, 170, and $260 million. Will the Government announce the start of construction this year as the reason for the stoppage is in the process of disappearing?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e762	Let me first stress that I am well aware that a number of construction projects in the university and higher education sectors are waiting to be realized. I can mention in particular new buildings for odontology education at the University of Bergen, new buildings for nursing training in Oslo and the co-location project at the Högskolan in Bergen. All three projects are highly prioritised. Appropriate and functional construction is an important objective in the university and higher education sectors. This I will do all I can to fulfill. New buildings at Kronstad will co-locate the university in one campus area and provide new and useful premises for the establishment. At the same time, the construction project of the University of Bergen is one of the largest projects in the university and higher education sectors, with a cost framework of approximately DKK 1.8 billion at price level on 1 July 2009. The government did not find any room for start-up appropriations for new construction projects in the State budget for 2008. Although there is evidence that the pressure on the construction market is diminishing somewhat, there is still reason to consider projects of this magnitude in terms of an excited construction market and economic cycle. I would like to stress that new buildings for the University of Bergen are among the highest priority construction projects in the university and higher education sectors. At the same time, I would like to stress that it is the Stortinget that adopts the start-up grant for new buildings. Appropriations for the launch of new investment projects must also be seen in the context of the overall budgetary situation for each year, which has implications for the progress of the respective projects. I can therefore not confirm the construction start this year for this project on behalf of the Government, but I can confirm that it is on my priority list of the three most important and highest priority buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e775	I would like to thank you for the answer, although the answer did not clarify what is my core question in this case, namely whether there is pressure in the construction market that is the cause of the construction stop, or whether the construction stop in the education sector is part of what we describe as rest cutting for higher education in Norway. For we have not seen the corresponding stoppage of investment in other areas of the public sector. This is quite important to me, because the red-green parties in Hordaland spend a lot of time and energy explaining the unfortunate situation of educational buildings in Bergen with the tight relationship in the construction market -- which is then a fact. But that explanation is not very credible if the government is now dampening the pressure in the construction market, when it's not the same pressure, yet it doesn't trigger these buildings. We see here that in the case of higher education, this will lead to a very limited activity in the first three years. So I ask again, is it the construction market or priority issues that are the challenge in terms of these buildings?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e784	I can assure the asker that it is not a priority on my part or on the part of the Ministry of Knowledge. We want those buildings to be realized in the priority order that I mentioned, and this built as it is asked here, namely the Bergen University, is one of the highest on our list. I must admit that the odontology building at the University of Bergen is in front of this. But it's the construction market situation that is the most important reason why we haven't been able to make room for this so far. It is not that we do not want this, it is not a wild policy. But of course we follow the situation in the construction market carefully, and I have contact with the Government, of course, because it is primarily the decisions of the Government and then the Stortinge that underpin what is to be realized every year.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e789	I think it's important that the Council of State realizes that the high school community in Bergen is reasonably disappointed by this government. I would quote from a decision made by the College on 17 December 2007 which has been sent to the Ministry of Knowledge: ‘The board strongly regrets the unfortunate situation of higher education, in which it remains uncertain after 13 years whether it will be newly built or not.’ The University of Bergen is probably the only university in Norway that hasn't got a single penny for new investments in the last year, while there is a school that has very big challenges due to location in five different places. I must therefore ask the Council of State: can we risk that the Government, when you start new constructions, will get rid of this problem by launching the first two buildings, and that we will therefore be left with a high school in Bergen which will be put back again this time when the train for these construction projects is running?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e801	I can assure you that I have very good dialogue and contact with the management at the University of Bergen and am well informed about both the disappointment and their views on the matter. I have--and need-- ongoing information from them. As far as our priority list is concerned, there is a visualisation of the three main projects. That doesn't mean that the list is no longer than these three. I want to fight for that when there's always an opportunity, an opening in store and government to realize a building, we're going to try to get as much as possible. Because there is a great need, I fully agree with the representative in it, but we depend on getting exactly the clear signal we need, to get these projects started. So I'm going to promise that I'm going to follow the University of Bergen very closely, and I'm fully aware of the situation the university is in. The situation is the same when it comes to some other construction, but we are very clear that Bergen has priority in the things we have on top.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e813	I would like to ask a question to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: «Departure in secondary school is a growing problem. My home state of Finnmark is among the states that are struggling most with this. There may be many reasons why students choose to complete an education. However, many have to leave home to take the desired education. The provision of housing to students in secondary schools is often small private furniture or collectives. Can the Council of State say anything about the extent to which the House Bank assists municipalities and counties in facilitating housing for high school students?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e822	I see the challenges that the question maker, Lightcloth, travels. The rule is that everyone should have a real freedom of choice with regard to where they want to bow. We will facilitate equivalent living conditions throughout the country. I think it's also important in this context to remind ourselves of it, and therefore emphasizes that we're busy keeping up the main features of the construction pattern. Through regional policy, we are working for a balanced development between cities and countries. It involves efforts in many areas. Local authorities are responsible for the adequate and varied provision of housing for different groups of the population within the municipal borders. This also includes housing for elephants in the secondary school. The House Bank can help municipalities with the housing policy challenges they may face through guidance, training, networking, loans and grants. The economic tools of the House Bank are over, not specially designed for elephants in secondary schools. Nor is the Husbank’s appeal to student housing. When it comes to the question of what the House Bank is doing to secure housing for elephants in a secondary school in Finland, I can tell you that there is actually contact. Husbanken's regional office in Hammerfest is involved in discussions with the municipality of Hammerfest, the municipality of Finnmark County and the Student Association on a possible cooperation project to acquire furniture for students and elephants in further schools in the county. The conversations are at such an early stage that at this point there is no basis for telling us what the result is.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e833	I thank you for your answer and have the following follow-up questions: Student interaction builds and manages a relatively large volume of buildings for students, but targets little students in secondary school. The county councils also do not provide any organized housing services to these students. The municipality of residence or the municipality of the host of the individual student also does not often take responsibility for students who move on to the place of residence. The youngest and least experienced lodgers are offered a private furniture market, often with little adult supervision. Does the Government consider any State instruments channelled through the municipalities or counties to follow up on the hybel residents in secondary school in a more systematic way?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e842	Let me first say that there is an important problem that is raised here. There's a decline in the secondary school, and it's important to focus on it. This theme does not directly fall within my remit, but it is a fact that an effort is being made not least by the county's follow-up service to make it work better. Since this question concerns Finnmark, I have checked the number a little bit closer. It's desperation that Finnmark is overrepresented -- naturally, by geographical considerations -- when it's about the number of elephants that live on hybel. So far, the government for its part has not discussed any special efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e849	I also thank you for this answer. I have one last question: in my home country, Finnmark, host families have been tried for students who have to leave home to take secondary education. However, for various reasons, it has been difficult to recruit host families at school. From other counties, we have also heard of attempts and initiatives to provide better housing and more follow-up to outlying students. Will the Council of State initiate a systematic review of trials and actions carried out in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e858	With the background of this question, I checked carefully what number is leading. It turns out that something less than half of all the elephants in the advanced school cage on the hut. It has been measured by the number of people who receive a bus scholarship. The number varies from state to state. In Finnmark, the figures for 2006-2007 show that 59 pst. Of those who received support from Lånekassa, 1,865 elephants, cage on the hut there. I would say that this is primarily a responsibility between the county and the municipalities where these young people live. But I'm going to take this matter with me and this issue back to the Minister of Knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e866	I would like to ask the Minister of Defence the following questions: ‘According to the leader of the Norwegian army, Major General Robert Mood, Norway should halve the force we have in Afghanistan. This is because it is not possible or proper to keep so many soldiers in international operations, as the burden on the soldiers becomes too heavy. Does the Council of State share this view?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e875	Let me first stress that there has been full uprising in the Storting about our involvement in Afghanistan. Norway's contribution to international peace and stability is an important part of our security and defence policy. When it comes to solving our problems out there, we have a constant focus on avoiding excessive loads on some parts of the defense. The general inspector of the Army has focused on the challenges of wear and tear on personnel involved in operations abroad. It is important for me to stress that this is not a general problem for the entire Defense, or for the entire Army. The load is specific to some groups of commands, such as: have special competence in connection, logistics, sanitation, etc. Measures are already in place to reduce the burden on the exposed personnel groups. At the same time, some of the measures take effect only after a period of time. It will necessarily take some time to build up competence in the defense. In this context, I would nevertheless like to stress that both the Army and the joint capabilities are strengthened. In 2005, when we took over the government offices, the army's size was approx. Two hundred and fifty-five people. Today the Army consists of approx. 3 100 people. So compared to 2006, we have had an annual construction of over 40 pst. In the new long-term plan of defence, we propose to increase the Army further, up to approx. 3,700 people. The long-term plan therefore means further strengthening of the Army, with emphasis on the professional environments where the load is greatest. In addition to this, the other sectors of defence and home protection, as well as back-up personnel, will be used to distribute the burden to a greater extent. I expect the Chief of Defense and the Army to give priority to the increase that the Army is bringing to those areas where they have the greatest challenges. Then, of course, we will continuously assess the device on our strength contribution. However, there is no basis for saying that there is an immediate need for substantial reductions in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e888	I thank the Council of State for a full and good answer. But as recently as a week ago, the head of defense also said that he was now skeptical of the developments we could see regarding the lack of command in international services. Afghanistan was, of course, also mentioned. As it is today, as I understand it, there is one period out and maybe three periods at home-- it can go all the way down to two periods at home. But what's desirable, as I understand it, is that it should be one to five. Commands that are worn out, which are a little frustrated, may carry out this important service in a somewhat worse way--I'm a little round when I say this. It's clear that you have an important job to do down there, and if you're tired, it might not work out. That's why this is so dangerous. Therefore, as the command organisations also say, it is desirable that the periods should be one to five.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e895	As I said at the outset, I am concerned about facilitating the situation so that it is proper to send soldiers out in demanding operations. It is my opinion that we first have to solve these wear and tear problems for the personnel groups involved, rather than reducing the total contribution. I also want to say that it is important that the representative, Mr Bredvold, says that we have a distribution between being at home and being on duty. But as I said, the burden here is on some groups of personnel. And while we're about to build this up in Defense, we also need to use personnel from the other defenses, including from Homeland Protection, as it's now done to a very large extent in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e902	I thank the Council of State for their response. The Council of State said in its first reply that there was no immediate danger. I'm a little unsure whether that might be right, because at least there are some groups, as the Council of State says. And when those groups aren't manned enough when you're not 100 pst. able to perform the service you are about to perform in such an important task - I would say that it is a danger. That is why I ask again: how quickly will the Council of State contribute to the proper replacement of the soldiers and the command - especially the command - that is in Afghanistan or in other foreign services?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e909	As I said, over the last two years, there has been an increase of 40 pst. in the size of the Army, from 2,150 personnel to 3,100 personnel, to be absolutely correct. We're going to have a further build-up of the Army. I expect the head of defence and the general inspector of the Army to build up the capacities where there is a shortage and where the loads have been greatest. It's an important question that's being addressed here. I believe that there is no reason to say that there is an immediate need to reduce comprehensively in Afghanistan. I would like to stress that we now have out special forces. We have a helicopter contribution. We're withdrawing the rapid reaction force we have, just to try to divide the loads into several groups. It's not my impression that the soldiers who are in Afghanistan today are not fully capable of solving the mission. But, of course, we need to focus heavily on the stress challenges for our personnel.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e923	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Defence: ‘The management and monitoring of the Norwegian-Russian border is a demanding and important job for Norway, also on behalf of the EU Schengen cooperation. However, the garrison in South Varanger has only partial access to military helicopter. East-Finland police districts are not equipped with helicopters at all. This implies a weakened preparedness. Will the Government ensure that helicopter preparedness is strengthened so that both the defense and the police have access to the helicopter 24 hours a day?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e932	The government attaches great importance to good and effective border monitoring, and I would like to stress that we are living up to our commitments in the Schengen Agreement. There is no requirement in the Schengen acquis for the border guard to have continuous helicopter standby. However, the government assumes that helicopter capacity shall be available for the Garrison in South Varanger. The garrison is the unit in the defense that is responsible for the border guard. The defense has therefore for many years stationed a Bell helicopter on the Høybuktmoen at Kirkenes. This quad has, among other things, assisting border guards and police in being present and available for mission. The mission of the helicopter to the border guard and the police is mainly the transport of personnel and supplies. However, this helicopter has never had a 24-hour standby. The defense has informed that they have previously investigated and assessed a continuous helicopter standby in East Finland. However, the defence has decided not to start planning such a contingency. The reason for the defence assessment is that a continuous helicopter standby is not considered necessary for the ability to perform the assigned border guard service. Within our overall helicopter capacity in Defense, such action would also have reduced capacity in other important areas. I would like to remind you that the situation on the Norwegian-Russian border is stable and calm, and that Norway is living up to its Schengen obligations at all points. On this basis, I believe that the helicopter capacity in East Finland, in today's situation, is completely satisfactory. Should this situation change, we will of course review the question of enhanced helicopter preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e943	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In the light of developments in the northern regions, and in the light of a wish that we from Norway should be proactive and have the best possible preparedness, there is no doubt, however, that a 24-hour round preparedness would be the best response. I understand that even though this has been assessed by the Council of State, there is a cost question behind it that makes you per. Today does not have a so-called 24-hour round alert. If you had met your highest wishes from the defense and police forces, you would probably have said yes, we want a helicopter in 24-hour standby. I also understand from what the Council of State says, that there may be some scarcity of helicopters. In the light of the needs or wishes, the defence should protect certain parts of the domestic preparedness - for example. helicopters - in the case of international operations?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e954	As for our participation with helicopters in international operations, we have chosen to deploy helicopters in Afghanistan in order to safeguard our personnel's ability to evacuate if necessary in a critical medical situation. As regards the helicopter deployed in the border area, there is no requirement in the Schengen acquis for us to have such a helicopter on standby. Given the border situation, where there are few violations, we don't think it would be a proper priority either. In any case, resources will always be limited.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e961	I thank you for your answer. It is correct, as the Council of State says, that we are in compliance with the requirements of the Schengen acquis. However, during the Schengen inspection some time ago, there were some critical comments related to the fact that control responsibilities in Norway have been shared between the Defence and the police. In order to respond to these observations, it is particularly important that thedefence and police are maximum and interest rates, whether for the use of helicopters or by other means. Then I have a question to the Council of State: look at her, is there sufficient resources both at the Defence Office and at the police in South Varanger to get the necessary recovery and clarification, so that we can meet the expectations you have in Schengen - about a border guard that is as good as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e970	We're going to have as good a border control as necessary. We feel that the border control we have today, which is largely carried out by the Defence Department, is very good and proper. As regards the Schengen Agreement, however, we must deal with both the requirements of the agreement and the available resources. It's always going to be like that. But here there's no reason to increase preparedness, because there's a few cross-border violations. There's a very quiet situation on the frontier. But it is clear that this is a situation that we will always have under assessment if the situation changes. As I said, we've had a helicopter outsourced, but not on 24-hour standby. There has also been no demand for it, and there is nothing to suggest that it should be necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e982	I allow myself to ask the Minister of Defense the following questions: ‘Norwegian soldiers in Afghanistan are at risk of life without fighting with the best equipment. We could read this in the Evening Post on April 23, this year. Lack of good enough equipment applies in several areas. The defense describes this as unfortunate and boring. Is the council satisfied with the state of things, or is she deeply concerned in the same way as the undersigned?'
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e989	Norwegian soldiers have consistently good equipment in foreign operations. This is what we see when we compare the equipment that our soldiers have with the equipment that allied colleagues have. Norwegian departments are only sent out on duty when they are adequately trained and equipped, so that they can perform their tasks efficiently, safely and properly. However, new needs will always appear in the operational area. The defence therefore makes continuous assessments of the need for and new acquisitions of material. However, it may take some time to get new equipment in place because this first needs to be developed and tested in addition to the fact that other countries are also often interested in the same type of equipment. However, I would like to stress that Norwegian forces are always set up with the material necessary to carry out the military missions they are assigned to carry out. I would also like to make it clear that we all have a responsibility not to create undue uncertainty and anxiety for our soldiers and their relatives. Although the staff are equipped with good material, it is not possible to eliminate all risks associated with the tasks performed abroad. The Ministry of Defence has earmarked 200 million. kr in 2008 so that the Joint Operational Headquarters can quickly provide the necessary equipment. Several projects are now being implemented. There's a lot of wear on the equipment for our troops in Afghanistan. This is due to a combination of high job load and very demanding topographical and climatic conditions. The need for maintenance and support therefore becomes equally high and demanding. On this basis, there will be periods during which the equipment cannot be used because it needs to be repaired or maintained. However, the operational manager will always adapt operating patterns and mission solutions to material status to ensure the safety of personnel. This is a normal situation for our strengths both in the rest of the world and here at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1002	Comparing Norway’s equipment with other countries’ equipment does not make Norway’s equipment any better – just so it’s clear. There's a lot of money allocated - 653 million. kr - which has not been used. In the list of non-acquisitions, we find short-keeping missiles and helmets for F-16. When Stortinget granted this money, it was considered essential for Norway’s ability to maintain control in the air. That's pretty important, then! Then a person would think that they were able to get this equipment. In addition, 120 million darker equipment is missing. kr, there is a lack of equipment to jam radio-guided road bombs - it is very important that you have it, because it is often in connection with road bombs that something is happening down there - there is a lack of material for the KNM “Shud” for 230 million. kr, the development of new small arms, which is important, lacks equipment for 80 million new frigates. NOK and there is no used special vehicle for 20 million. I have listed several times in this room that we have too bad a vehicle. That's how I can keep ramming up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1011	I know that there are a number of materials on the list of non-acquisitions. I would nevertheless stress that our soldiers in international operations are equipped with the best available equipment we have. But there is a great deal of wear on the material we have in Afghanistan, because there are very difficult conditions, both topographical and climatic, that are hard on the equipment. In the case of the capacities raised by the representative Bredvold, part of this is during the ordering process. There are long delivery times on this, not least because a number of countries are in line. There are many other countries' soldiers who want to get the same equipment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1018	I thank the Council once again for the answer. Is the Council satisfied that the defence seems to be boring and unfortunate, or does the Council of State, in line with me and the Advance Party, a little stronger words for it? ‘Certain’ is not exactly the right word, ‘unlucky’ may not be the right word either, when we have given money and sent soldiers to a war country, and the equipment is not suitable for that purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1025	What I think is boring and unfortunate is that there is an impression that the Norwegian defense and our soldiers do not have the equipment they deserve. Our soldiers are very well equipped. Just as fully, as I have stressed many times, there is great wear on the material, and there are long delivery times and many waiting to get the same type of material. However, there should be no doubt that we are doing all we can to ensure that our soldiers will at all times have as good equipment as possible, and be as well equipped and prepared for their missions as they can at all times be.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1042	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1048	This question, from the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen to the Minister for the Environment and Development, will be answered by the Minister for Knowledge on behalf of the Minister for the Environment and Development, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1051	‘The production of biofuels in the day contributes to food shortages in the world and pushes up prices. The Danish Minister for Climate Change has now turned his attention to biofuels. He thinks we shouldn't put food in the gas tanks. The UK Prime Minister, Brown, is considering asking the EU to change its biofuel target. The government has great ambitions for the use of biofuels in Norway as early as 2008, although the climate notification acknowledges that it will be produced from food for the next 5-10 years. Will the Government review the Government’s short-term ambitions for the use of biofuels?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1058	Norway's collection of greenhouse gas emissions from road traffic is high and is expected to grow if we do not introduce new measures. Biofuels are one of the ways we can get rid of them, but we still have focus. fuel-efficient vehicle, public transport and pedestrians and cyclists. We share the concerns caused by the high food prices. However, it is not obvious that biofuels have their main blame. The causes and effects of increased food prices are compounded. Population growth and prosperity are increasing international demand for more meat and for more food in general. This is particularly hard for the poor in the cities. But increasing food prices also leads to increased incomes for farmers. Increased prices make agricultural output more profitable, e.g. u-land. Today’s biofuels are mainly based on food or feed. Second-generation biofuels could be used, for example: marginal land biomass, bio-waste, etc. The government will therefore initiate an R & D strategy on second-generation biofuels and support selected demonstration projects. A legislative proposal on a translation requirement for biofuels has been being heard, and the Ministry of the Environment is now awaiting a summary and a recommendation from the State Department of Pollution. We will then give this issue a thorough assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1069	I think this is very passive. The Minister for the Environment was now in Paris and recommended other countries to consider a break in their efforts. Then this government should also be able to give clear notice that one will assess the same break in his bet. I agree that one should bet on second-generation biofuels. It also called for the Progress Party in the Climate Communication, but we did not hear, because it was more urgent to have a percentage interference. In this way, research is good, but the point is, what do you do in the meantime? Now the government has said that one should try to get an interference - 5 pst. already next year. It equals the calorie content of food for 2.8 million people for one year. That's what's going to be burned up to meet the government's targets. Then the government should be able to say that this is out-of-date policy. The UN Food Programme has recommended a five-year postponement of the commitment to biofuels, precisely because of the world's food situation. Then the government should consider postponement. Will the Council of State propose it internally in the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1081	When we invest in biofuels, it is important that we contribute to a net reduction of greenhouse gas emissions without creating new major environmental or societal problems. That is exactly why we take that discussion so seriously. And then I want to make it clear that it's not obvious that biofuels are the main causes of the concerns that the food problem is now causing. Because this is a serious and important discussion, we will therefore carefully consider the investment in biofuels after the current regulation comes back, and before we make a final proposal from the Government. In addition, I would like to mention that, of course, it would be important to work with international certification schemes to ensure the quality of biofuels, as well as the investment in second-generation biofuels.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1090	I have not claimed that biofuels are the main cause. There are also very few others who have done. But many have said that this is an important factor. When the UN Food Programme recommends that we stop investing in biofuels until a second-generation technology is in place, it is a very strong signal. It's not just a party representative who says it, but it's actually the UN food program. And the UN tends to have a very warm relationship with in all other cases, except when the UN recommends nuclear power and a reduced rate of biofuel -- obviously. Gordon Brown is asking for a reassessment of it. The Danish Minister for Climate Change is asking for a reassessment of this. Nevertheless, the government has the ambition to burn the food to 2.8 million people and it seems okay, because biofuels are not the main reason why the world's poorest cannot afford to buy food. When Minister of Environment Solheim in Paris nevertheless recommends other countries to assess their efforts, should not the government also listen to its own Minister of Environmental Protection and actually reconsider its own efforts, and not at all costs wish to implement the climate agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1097	It is true that the Government and the SV place far greater emphasis on recommendations from the UN than the Progress Party does. It's also that we put far more emphasis on climate problems than the Progress Party does. But that's exactly why I'm saying here now that in connection with the fact that the regulation has been being heard, we will make a thorough assessment of the use of biofuels. There are now concerns about it. There is an important discussion about it. Some of the solutions would be to work internationally for certification schemes. It will also be a major investment in second-generation biofuels. Then we have to make a careful assessment of the biofuel effort we face, in the light of the problems that it can create for the food situation internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1102	We're going to go to question 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1109	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘In the 2007 Revised National Budget, EUR 23 million was allocated to pilot projects with extended school days in a number of municipalities in the country. The content of this pilot project includes school meals, the introduction of physical activity, homework and the strengthening of the community. However, the municipalities have now been informed that the project will not be continued. Does the Council of State consider that one year is sufficient to gain experience from such a project and that this is an adequate basis for the evaluation of the scheme?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1118	The government's goal is to extend the student's school day. In the fall, there will be an extension of five weekly hours, which will strengthen training in Norwegian, math and English. Not least, this will be important for reading training. This will also make an important contribution to strengthening other basic skills in early training. In the further work on extending the school day, we will consider strengthening other subjects, but also time for physical activity and homework. Our goal is to make schooling a whole day for the kids where they have different activities and good time for learning. It's important that the schools facilitate physical activity, we have good experience in that it stimulates learning, in addition to the extension of the hours that we need. As the representative Anundsen refers to, last year we launched an experiment with extended school days in some municipalities to gain more knowledge about how such a day could become a better everyday life for students. This year, we're spending 47 million. I am looking forward to the evaluation. The eleven participating municipalities have shown a great deal of commitment. They took the challenge of putting an attempt on a tight arm, even if the lead time was short, and I am impressed by the arrangements that have been made. The Ministry granted support based on average GSI numbers for group size and expenditure, and also provided support for a school meal for all students who attended. The experiment has included elephants from the first four steps of the base ball, to a total of about 3,700 elephants. The student groups have received five extra sculletims each, and they have tried out extra time for subjects, physical activity and homework. The aim was to gain different experiences, and the department did not allow strict guidance on how the schools should spend and organise the time. Different experiences are also gained in the way that both small and large schools and small and large municipalities have shared. The Directorate of Education has led the experiment, and they have also seen its evaluation. SINTEF will carry out the evaluation and deliver a report for the summer. From the outset, the agreement with the municipalities provided the basis for this to be an attempt over one academic year. We need experience that we can make use of in the further planning of extended hours, and I think I've given you such experience. This applies both to the practical and administrative experience and to the way such a day affects the learning environment and to the learning work of students. I am busy sharing the results of other schools and municipalities, and the ideas explored, so that municipalities can organise the corresponding tests on their own. We know that several municipalities have an hour higher than the national minimum hours. Local school owners can both expand the number of hours in the trade and facilitate time for physical activity and meal. The evaluation of the experiment will be discussed in the 2009 State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1131	As I understand it, several municipalities believe that the time has been too short and that it takes time to implement these changes. It's quite natural. Those who have some experience in school find that putting around and changing takes time, it takes time to reap experiences. That's why I don't think the Council of State answered the question very well - because when this scheme was introduced, it was introduced in a harsh and bram. This was to be an experiment that would really focus on how to improve school life for students through an extended school day, with the measures in relation to physical activity, food, etc. which was also to be located there. Now we see that the Council of State won't even answer if he thinks one year is enough. Is this a good enough basis for a proper evaluation, so that we can take advantage of the experience of this type of experiment? This kind of experiment is important if we're going to be able to improve school, and there's a great need for that. I would therefore like to challenge the Council of State again: does the Council of State believe that one year's experience with this pilot scheme is sufficient to take advantage of these experiences?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1138	It was clear from the beginning that there was just one attempt we launched this as. It was also explicitly made clear that there was an experiment over a year. In this way, we keep the net what we promised - that we did a test of an extended school day in many different ways in different municipalities and schools. It is now about to be terminated. As I said, Sintef has now started an evaluation that will be delivered to summer. I really look forward to the results, because they're going to be exciting -- and we have a good basis for saying that we're going to gain extensive new knowledge about how an extended school day can be carried out, and what effects he has, after the year of trials we've completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1145	I hear the council say this has been clear from the beginning. That's also the questioner aware of. In the course of such a project, experience will be gained in relation to the progress made in the implementation of the project. The only thing the council says is that we've kept what we promised - that the project should not go beyond a year. We now hear that there are several municipalities that believe that more time is needed to reap the experience that was meant to be reaping from the project. That must be the starting point - that you want to take advantage of the knowledge you get through a project. In the course of time, you'll get signals that you might need a little more time to know what kind of effects homework, more food in school, and extended school years actually have on students' everyday lives. In my opinion, it does not seem to a government council to say that we have kept what we promised, we should not spend more than one year on this. However, the Council of State does not respond to what I have asked for: Is that enough? Yes, we all look forward to the evaluation - but couldn't that evaluation give us a better picture if we had taken a little more time to reap the experience that is necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1154	We'll get a good basis for making new assessments of an extended school day, because the situation is that we've had too little knowledge of it before, and that now we actually have the first extensive experiment in very many different schools and municipalities, with different organization. It will provide us with a good and adequate basis to consider further extension of school day from national level. That is the basis for the experiment. It has been completed as has been said, and we feel confident that we will gain important new knowledge by having completed the experiment as we have done.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1161	We're now going back to question 10.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1167	I allow myself to ask this question to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade: ‘The Oslo-based business incubator IKADA, incubator for artists, architects, designers and academics, will be dropped from August 2008 due to a lack of funding. In the IKADA Board of Directors, Innovation Norway is also represented. How will the Council of State contribute to the further operation of this incubator?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1176	The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade's innovation and innovation grant items are managed in their entirety by the instrument and mainly by Innovation Norway. Innovation Norway has supported the incubator IKADA for a start-up period of three years. The aid has contributed to the creation of new enterprises and to the achievement of new target groups of entrepreneurs. A total of 129 entrepreneurs have benefited from the offer. Of these, 61 have pst. host women. Both the decision to enter into the project and to withdraw is an assessment of Innovation Norway alone. The organisation of Innovation Norway as a special law company implies that innovation is Norway itself that makes decisions in individual cases on a free and independent basis. There is an important target group that has received support through IKADA. This shows that Innovation Norway is actively promoting innovation and innovation in the service industries. I believe that Innovation Norway will continue to provide financial support for an incubator for these target groups, if there are actors in the Oslo region who are willing to take greater responsibility for the project than has been the case for IKADA.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1185	I am aware that Innovation Norway has contributed in the way the Council of State describes, and thank you for the answer to that. This is how the Council of State responds, he says that it is Innovation Norway that assesses the measures on its own. Can the Council of State simply confirm that there is no principle to prevent innovation in Norway from entering into the type of projects represented by IKADA in the Oslo region, i.e. that the instrument makes it fully possible in relation to this? Can the Council confirm that this is how I understand the answer?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1192	Yes, there is nothing in principle in the way that that kind of project is supported by Innovation Norway. On the contrary, the Government has presented its own action plan for culture and nutrition, which was an essential part of the activity we saw at IKADA. It is a practical question that Innovation Norway, through its grant schemes, mainly supports projects for three years. The background for supporting incubator projects is the establishment of an economically viable basis, based, inter alia, on: the help provided by Innovation Norway during the start-up phase. It is a practical question that it was not possible to establish the economic basis, but, of course, Innovation Norway can support that type of project in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1197	I thank you for an important, precise and clarifying answer. Then I come to the next issue, which was also addressed by the Council of State to me, which is what we can do in the cultural and service industries. There are opportunities across the country, but it's probably made it this city -- because of social developments -- is a special potential for creating jobs. Does the Council of State consider it a challenge to consider whether to supplement it with instruments, to assess whether, within what we can describe as cultural jobs, additional instruments are needed? Because there is no doubt that creating jobs, whether it should now be e.g. around a Hamsun activity on Hamarøy or especially in Oslo, where we are now, will be important to the country. Then the question is asked by me: does the Council of State see the need to look for additional instruments to be able to make efforts in this area, since the Council of State has described that the IKADA initiative has actually produced results?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1206	The number of instruments available in the public sector is increasing. When the representative asks about culture in particular, it is that those who are to receive operating support permanently for cultural activity receive their support from the Ministry of Culture and, in some cases, from the budgets of local and regional cultural authorities. Innovation Norway’s task is to help launch commercial self-sustaining projects over time. There we have presented an action plan for culture and nutrition, where some of the instruments are in Innovation Norway, as I said in my previous answer. But I would also point out that within the travel strategy presented by the Government, it is in very many cases so that culture and nutrition can also make a significant contribution to travel life development. So this is an area where the government focuses, both on the kind of transfer value to travel life development, and also on more genuine cultural expressions. To the extent that it is a nutritional potential, Innovation Norway has support schemes. To the extent that it is purely operating aid and cultural aid, it goes beyond the Ministry of Culture's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1214	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Calling for help when you need it, be it to the police, the fire department or the ambulance, is for most people a straightforward matter, and as we take for granted. For those who are deaf, however, this will be a problem. In the home situation, this is usually organised, while with mobile phone it is not possible to get direct contact with emergency calls. How will the Council of States facilitate the possibility for those who are deaf to call emergency calls from mobile phones?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1223	As the question arises, solutions are in place to enable deaf people and hearing impairments to contact naudstrals via a text phone call in the home of the text-phone service in the sea. There is also a solution to get in touch with the text-phone service via SMS. What is the background to the question is whether solutions can be established for direct communication for deaf and hearing impaired people from mobile phones and directly to the naudstrals. This may include SMS-based solutions or solutions based on video calls and sign language interpretation. The Federation of deaf people has taken action with the Ministry of Transport, primarily with a view to establishing a system based on SMS, and has presented proposals for such a system to the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Postal and Telecommunications. The system will allow deaf people and hearing impairments to come into direct contact with the relevant emergency centre, and the geographical positioning of the mobile phone is followed by a call to make it easier to identify the location of the mobile user. Such a system will require new technical solutions both for mobile operators and not least for the receiver equipment in the emergency centres. There is therefore an assessment of how and when such a scheme can be introduced. In view of the fact that the corresponding schemes are already in place in some other countries, I believe that it should be possible to apply them in Norway as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1234	I thank the Council of State for the answer and I think it is very positive that the matter is further worked on in cooperation with the Federation of Deaf and with good advice from there. What we take as a matter of course, flying around with the mobile phone all the time and texting, for deaf people, is a difficult thing. You don't think about it. We see that Nordic countries have solutions with text messages, and I wonder why we are looking for them. We have to have a society where everyone can participate, and with today's technology, the Minister of Transport also says it's a simple thing to do, but it might cost a little bit of money. If the Council of State thinks, until what she's now sketching, it'll start, that there can be a system where emergency messages can be given in a simpler way, something that you can do in other countries, for example. in Finland and Sweden, including a separate code where the deaf may be able to connect to an emergency centre, e.g. Has it been assessed by the Minister for Transport at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1241	The Ministry of Justice, in conjunction with others, is responsible for coordinating the three emergency situations. The Ministry of Justice is setting up a common emergency network, including in cooperation with several others. This means that it is necessary to replace all the telephone lines in all the floors. The first construction steps will be completed this year, and according to the Ministry of Justice it will hardly be time to put in place the technical solutions in the first stages of construction. I do not know if a person in this work has assessed a type of code solution, but I am informed that a person is looking at different solutions in order to use SMS notifications in Norway as well. We look at our neighbouring countries with regard to how they have solved this, in order to learn from it in the work we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1248	I thank you again for a good and complementary answer. I hope that the Minister for Transport will talk to the Minister for Justice and find a good solution to this, look at the opportunities that exist, and whether it might be possible to solve it in a slightly different way in the short term. In view of the urgency of interpreting, which was also the subject of the Council of State's response, I would like to ask if it is in the same case. Or is it an additional bit for the SMS service?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1255	I agree with the representative that this is an important question. We might have got a faster implementation of such a solution if one wasn't right now in the middle of a reorganization that also requires technical changes to the emergency response system. But I'm absolutely sure that this will come into place. When the interpreter service is involved, it is not part of the same service. It'll be a matter of its own, as I've perceived it per. today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1265	The question is as follows: ‘Even extreme and unrealistic changes in fuel price and collective tariff result in relatively small reductions in CO2 emissions from passenger transport. Even double rates of bombing around the five largest cities in Norway provide little emission reduction. It is TØI that concludes in calculations for new NTPs. Nevertheless, government authorities encourage the development of local “environmental packages” with road transport tolls and link them to the award of state rewards. Is this not to fool transport users?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1277	The largest cities have major problems with the emergence and environment as a result of high traffic growth. The queues delay traffic and incur large additional costs for the commercial transport. Purchase pricing will spread traffic and facilitate the emergence of private, commercial and public transport. At the same time, this has a positive impact on greenhouse gas emissions and other local emissions. So here we have a climate action that brings benefits in other areas, and I think this is a good measure that cities should consider. In the context of the transport sector, there is no single measure that provides for significant reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. However, the sum of several measures can lead to a large reduction. In their submissions to the National Transport Plan, the proposals taken up by the representative Sortevik are expected to reduce by about 1 million. tonnes of CO2 and there is no small reduction. The Ministry of Transport is now reviewing the submitted and will present its assessment in the main message on the national transport plan. I note that the Progress Party in the area by region expresses resistance to implementing climate action. By means of the climate agreement, there is a broad political agreement that we should gradually convert Norway into a low-carbon society. I'm busy following up this broad agreement by supporting a lot of different measures in my sector that, in total, could produce great results.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1289	Thanks for the answer. The question is based on the fact that local measures do not actually have a reduction effect, so the sum of many zeros cannot have a significant overall impact. Let me do a fresh example. This concerns the so-called environmental package in Trondheim, where all the parties, except the Right and the Advance Party, will impose charges to finance investment in roads and collective services. It is an environmental measure that has been slaughtered by researchers, including: by Sintef. It is a huge tax package that is camouflaged like climate settlement, environmental tax and bomb financing. The environmental effect is zero. At the same time, it is said on the one hand that the measure will have a traffic-repellent effect, but on the other hand, it is entirely dependent on driving and car use continuing to provide enough money in the box. I repeat, isn't this to keep road users from fooling?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1305	I have great respect for what the plurality of Trondheim City has done. It is an important attempt to overcome the growing traffic congestion that one also sees in Trondheim. Not least, this results from the fact that many inhabitants have major problems with local particulate emissions that are harmful to health. If the decision from Trondheim has one or the other gain, I cannot comment on today. We have not received that decision. When we get it, of course, we have to consider the decision point by point. Some of that will also require us from our side to be willing to make some changes to today's legislation so that they can implement what is now agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1312	Thank you again for your answer. I understand that the Council of State does not place a sinful emphasis on the Sintef, located in Trondheim, saying about this so-called environmental package, and that the Council of State also does not place a sinful emphasis on what is the conclusions of the Transport Economic Institute, which have been put into play and the process of a new national transport plan. Let me take a fresh example: it concerns the bombing in Bergen, where it has been packed into political new talk about environmental benefits, and where we are also talking about the slowdown effect of the action. Nevertheless, it is such that you budget with increased car growth to give enough money in the box. I repeat that this is driving the road users behind the light. When, as this government has done, Section 27 of the Road Code has been amended so that tolls can also be used for the operation of public transport, this becomes a certainty that, as long as this government sits, the toll will also last - without any environmental impact, but there will be more money in the box. And I repeat, isn't this driving the traffickers behind the light?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1321	I still mean that the representative Sortevik shoots a record bomb. What you do in cities is try to get rid of a growing traffic chaos. Its recipe is to build a broad road, initiate even more transport, and even more pollution - and one will cause even more people with problems, and it will be even more harmful to live in big cities. I'm glad that those who run cities, who have the initiative and the right to decide in these areas, are more forward-looking than the Progress Party, and that they address the local challenges and try to do something with them. Many roads lead to Rome, and many roads lead to a better environment in our cities. All good measures are probably not invented and tested per. Today, but if we are to move on, we must be willing to try out different solutions. At least I'm going to do it for as long as I am, and I'm going to actively support the local initiatives that have strong goals for a better environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1331	This question, from the representative of Mr Bård Hoksrud to the Minister for Justice, will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Inclusion as appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1334	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Employment and Inclusion the following questions: ‘Once you have lived your whole life in Norway convinced you to be a Norwegian citizen, and to renew your passport, some people feel rejected. This is because one of the parents was not Norwegian when you were born. For some reason, the citizenship of one non-Norwegian parent was granted. They must then search again. For these, it becomes a matter of principle not to apply again. Does the Council agree that this is unreasonable and will he ensure that these can seek in a simplified way?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1343	The Directorate for Foreign Affairs is aware of such issues raised in the question raised by Mr Bård Hoksrud. It is discovered from time to time that persons with a Norwegian passport have not been formally granted Norwegian citizenship. When they apply to the authorities to establish their Norwegian citizenship, one or more conditions of the law may not be fulfilled. As a general rule, according to the Civil Code, there is a requirement for seven years of residence in Norway over the last ten years. During this period you must have a residence permit of at least one year. Persons who have wrongly received a Norwegian passport have no reason to believe that they need some form of residence and work permit in Norway. Consequently, they do not comply with the requirement to have a residence permit. The Directorate for Foreign Affairs states that applications for citizenship from persons who have been misappropriated to a Norwegian passport may be assessed under the derogation provided for in Section 19 of the Act. Under this provision, the conditions of acquisition laid down in Chapter 3 of the Act of Citizens' Rights may be waived on a case-by-case basis. There must be particularly strong reasons for the derogation to be applied and there must be a great deal to ensure that the conditions for the exemption are met. In the assessment, it is important that the provision does not constitute a way of establishing specific acquisition conditions for groups of applicants. The Directorate of Foreign Affairs is working on a report to the Ministry on this matter. In this context, I would like to assess the practice of the Directorate and look at the need for any legislative change in the acquisition of citizenship where people have been wrongly given Norwegian passports. In the meantime, the Directorate for Foreign Affairs will continue to assess such cases under the derogation provided for in Section 19 of the National Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1354	I had hoped that the Council of State would go even further in order to clear up the matters in question. But I'm very happy that the department now says that you should look into the matter, and that you can probably manage to find a solution. For me, it's a little special when you can prove that you've lived in Norway all year long -- 45 years. You can document it in the form of a birth certificate, baptism certificate, marriage certificate and residence certificate, but none of this is enough to get Norwegian citizenship. In addition, you can prove that you have attended your entire school in Norwegian school - you have, as said, 45 years of residence - and that you do not. You have Norwegian mother, you have Norwegian siblings, and you have Norwegian children, but this doesn't hold up to get back your Norwegian citizenship, which you think you actually have. In addition, passports have been issued three times, and still there is not enough to ensure that a solution can be found to get your Norwegian citizenship.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1361	I have no problem understanding that this is hard for most people to understand. Therefore, of course, I am also prepared to try to contribute to a solution. At the same time, I am asking for an understanding that it is not just from the pulpit of the Stortinge to come up with a simplified procedure in terms of getting citizenship. This is obviously a person who is going to have his citizenship, and who has erroneously received that recognition today not to have it, and I understand that it feels unreasonable and demanding. At the same time, I believe that not least the Progress Party is concerned that we should be fully on the safe side when we distribute Norwegian citizenship. That's why I have to go this round to get a report from the UDI, and then I'll see what's possible to get from simplifications where there's obviously a need for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1368	I hope, of course, that the result now is that the issues will be resolved for the people involved. Fortunately, as UDI has also said, not very many people are involved, but there are some. At least, I think the Council of State should agree that after this case became known in the media, I have had quite a number of reactions from others who are in the same desperate situation, and some are even asked to disapprove, because there is a better system, it is easier to document, and you can get citizenship for health reasons. I think it's sad that this is what we have to offer people who can thus prove that they have been Norwegian for most of their lives, have had Norwegian parents, but who for some reason have lost their Norwegian citizenship, or have not received Norwegian citizenship on the basis of the 1961-1979 law, that mothers had to send a message to the public. That's why I had hoped you could go through these cases, evaluate it, and get a solution for these people.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1373	Yeah, like I said, we're going to try to get to it. I say 'test' because I have to see the solution before I can say 'yes' or 'no'. At least I fully agree with the representative that we must not create a system where you must go through disability to get your citizenship. Well, I guess we've got the underprivileged we've got. The case must find its solution outside that track, at least.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1381	I will ask the following questions to the Minister of Health and Welfare: ‘It costs tens of millions not to build the hospital at the Rikshospitale because contracts have to be broken. Several private developers offer to implement the project if the Rikshospitalet buys the services. Without a hospital, the Rikshospitalet must continue to buy capacity externally and cover transport costs. Will the Council of State ensure that the hospital is built, that the Rikshospital is satisfied with its need for hotel capacity, and that funds for compensation for broken contracts and unnecessary transport are not wasted?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1390	Let me first say that cancer patients are a group of people who deserve a lot of attention. As regards the case in question, Health South-East RHF has obtained its investment framework in relation to the investment plans it is working with in the region. Therefore, they must set priorities for what is to be built first and what is to be built. In this context, they have established criteria for assessing investment matters and giving priority to this approach. These criteria are based on health, economic and property assessments, including assessments of patient base, capacity needs and capacity utilisation. The use of beds in medical hotels and beds in regular bed beds must be seen in the context, in order to optimise overall the use of beds in relation to patients’ needs and the use of resources. The Rikshospitalet HF has applied to Health South-East RHF for an investment permit for three overnight projects: extension of existing hospital at the Rikshospitalet in Gaustad new accommodation building for relatives at the Rikshospitalet in Gaustad, to replace temporary breakers new hospital at Radiumhospitalet The accommodation for family members is a priority in front of the medical hotel at the Radium Hospital, as this is a statutory task. Health South-East RHF has therefore approved the extension of the hospital in Gaustad and new accommodation for relatives. This means that the offer of overnight accommodation in a medical hotel is extended by 33 beds, from the present 187 to 220. However, a difficult situation has arisen as a result of the examination of the case at the Rikshospitalet HF. Health South-East RHF has assessed three possible actions in the context of the situation: The project will be stopped and will not be executed. The project shall be decided on. The project will not be dealt with until other priorities are established. On termination of the contract entered into, the entity will have to realise a loss and the amount of the loss cannot be determined until the claim from the contractor has been dealt with and settled. However, this is the solution chosen by the Health South-East RHF Board because prioritisation of this patient hotel would be at the expense of higher priority projects, including projects related to the capital process. It has been mentioned as an opportunity for private individuals to take over the extension of the patient hotel and for the Rikshospital to rent the premises by the builder. Such a solution will also have a cost that may have to be borne by Health South-East and must be prioritised within the available framework. If such a solution is chosen, this will, of course, also be included in the overall assessment when allocating future loan funds, but this is the responsibility of Health South-East to decide. I would also like to remind you that Health South-East is in the process of implementing a conversion programme in line with the mission given by the Ministry of Health and Health. Health South-East has underlined the importance of ensuring a good exploitation of the overall capacity of health businesses in the group. It is therefore not desirable to bind investment funds in the patient hotel until one has come further into overall planning.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1432	I hope that in the answer to the council there is a typo, and that you don't talk past each other. We're not talking about a «patient hotel», we're talking about a «health hotel». In other words, they do not have in-patients, but patients who are in-patients either for day care or other things, so that costs are covered, among other things. information through guest patient prices and other things. Furthermore, we now have private actors who have been on the road and offered to build this, and also to operate it, and then at a much more reasonable price than what is possible in the private market. The administration of the Rikshospitalet has actually sent out a request to hotels in the area. The nearest person who could accept this in the amount that was asked for was in Bærum, and then at a price of NOK 1 300 per day. We know that in Oslo during periods there is a very difficult situation with regard to available hotel beds. My question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State be able to assess whether private individuals can build and operate anyway?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1441	It is up to Health South-East to decide, in line with the model that several lots are behind. Very familiar, it's not per. today some concrete plans on the table, but in any case it is up to them to decide on this. Then it is that so-called financial leasing is not allowed, it has been fixed by the Riksrevision. It is clear that it is possible to look at what is called a direct contract, but then it has to be subject to competition in accordance with the tendering rules we have. This is the health south-east that has to decide. So far there are no concrete plans in this direction. I am following this matter, as I am following other matters, but so far this is not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1450	The alarming thing in this case is just the last decision that has been taken, that you go to the step of cancelling the agreement and will pay off it - especially when you can refer to the appointment of the board meeting on 15 February, where it is, among other things. read: ‘The board believes that a medical hotel in the Radium Hospital is the best solution to meet the need for overnight accommodation. The hotel supports the desired development of the business and from the start will contribute to better quality, service and logistics in patient care and provide better economic efficiency in the short and long term.’ It must seem like a dream to hear this, in the current situation with regard to the economic situation in the health care system. You can solve an actual problem related to both sick people who are being treated and relatives. Does the Council of State really believe that it is better to buy out a contract on a project that most people think is sensible to implement?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1460	I think I would like to remind you of the history of this case, where the construction of this medical hotel was started without the necessary permission from Health South-East. That's the story. Then they have taken their decision on the basis that they believe that there are other investment projects in this region that should come first, among other things. extension of medical hotels with 33 beds in the Rikshospitalet, which will include: relatives for good. It is also known to be major investments in this area. We're getting a huge, new, great research building at the Radium Hospital. We have Ahus, and there are other great things going on here too. The representative is probably very well aware that there are now major reorganisations in connection with the merger of Health South-East, and I will not exclude that there are also opportunities to put in place things that can improve the situation for this group of people by the process in which they are now involved. So as I see the matter today, I do not intend to intervene. This is Health South-East, and they have made their decision. But I am following the matter very carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1472	I have this question for the Minister of Health: ‘From 1 November 2003, it was opened for the sale of non-pharmacetic prescription-free medicinal products. The scheme was evaluated by the State Medicines Agency in 2006 and its conclusions are positive in terms of consumption, price and availability. [[SLV]] In view of this, the SLV proposes to extend the scheme to several non-prescription medicinal products, including anti-allergy medicinal products. This may help patients to gain better access to the necessary medicinal products. When will the Council of State follow up this recommendation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1481	The fact that patients can have better access to the necessary medicines, I consider initially very positive. As the questioner also refers to, the system of sales of non-pharmaceutics was launched from 2003. An important aspect of this scheme is to determine the choice of non-prescription medicinal products. The proposal to extend the selection is about important issues related to drug use and accessibility. As you know, the State Medicines Agency has the power to determine which non-prescription medicinal products may be sold outside of the pharmacy. It's also those who publish lists of these drugs. Because the Agency’s proposal to extend the scheme is very comprehensive, I have asked for a new assessment by the Swedish Medicines Agency on the consequences of this proposal for availability, price, proper pharmaceutical use, not least, and for access to pharmacies services. I have now received such an evaluation from the State Medicines Agency, and its content is now being evaluated in the Ministry. At the same time, the State Medicines Agency has sent a draft letter of consultation on the matter which is also for evaluation. I would say in the first place that the proposals from the Swedish Medical Products Agency are of such a nature that they should have been out at the hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1490	I thank the Council of State for the answer. We initially agree, clearly, that it is important and desirable that patients have good access to the necessary medicines and that the scheme has been shown to have positive effects, not least in the districts, where there may be a long way to selling regular pharmacies. We also agree that the SLV report of 2006 clearly shows that the scheme should be followed up and that it should be extended. Now we are in a time of year when, not least, the need for allergy medicine is increasing quite explosively. These are of the drugs that are most relevant in this context. Doesn't the Council of State feel that it's starting to hurry to get this in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1501	I can assure the representative that I have not intended to spend any longer time on this matter than necessary. Allergy medicines are one example of what many people need, even in those parts of the country where there is no pharmacy. I have just received an evaluation of the proposal from the State Medicines Agency. We must assess it as quickly as possible and also assess whether there is no need for this to be consulted. The questioner hears that I mean it in the first place, but we have to decide on this quickly. And if that's what we end up with, we're going to make sure that it's a quick follow-up to the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1508	Thanks again for the answer. But I'm a little lost, because SLV gave its position with the evaluation of the scheme and proposals for its extension already in December 2006. So it's approaching one and a half years ago. The Council of State answered a written question from the representative, Davay, also in December 2006, where she said: ‘I have not yet taken a decision on the follow-up to the LUA report.’ But she then showed that there were proposals in the report that would require regulatory changes and that this therefore had to be consulted. Does it not seem to the Council of State that a year and a half is legally long in such a simple process as this?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1522	It's not like nothing has happened in the year and a half. I asked the Swedish Medical Products Agency for a review because I also wanted to know what this would mean both in terms of the question of proper pharmaceutical use, which I am absolutely sure the questioner and I agree are important, and in terms of price and availability. Now the matter is on my table. That's absolutely right. And we're going to get it processed and given our answers as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1532	‘Health South-East has agreed to purchase places for multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment with 15 institutions. The new agreement means that 70 spaces are bought less than before. At the same time, drug addicts wait an average of 68 days for treatment, according to the Norwegian patient register. This appears to be an unacceptable long waiting period, particularly in view of the fact that many private institutions have free capacity. Does the Council of State believe that Health South-East is following up the unanimous decision of the Stortingen to strengthen drug treatment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1539	It is right that the representative, Sjøli, mentions in his question that health south-east RHF is now in the final phase of an acquisition process of the purchase of multidisciplinary specialised treatment for drug addicts by private actors. This concerns agreements that former Health East RHF had with providers in the drug field. That means that for the old Health South region this is not started. The purchase of services in the drug field in the old health south area will be completed next year. The current procurement process in Health South-East RHF is also not completed and agreements will not be concluded until mid-May of this year. I would like to remind you that this government has strengthened the drug field by about 350 million. kr since we took over. In the case of Health South-East RHF, the daily capacity of the private institutions represents about 60 pst. of the total daily capacity in this health region. This shows the central role that private individuals play in this field. In addition to private institutions, Health South-East RHF also has extensive services for drug addicts, both in emergency/detoxification, outpatients and day-care centres. This has to be seen as a whole when a judgment is passed on the offer of drug addicts. Recently, Health South-East, as the questioner also points out, announced that they wish to enter into agreements with 15 private institutions. This means that Health South-East buys services from private individuals in this area for 350 million. kr. It's about 20 million. kr more than for 2007. This includes health in the south-east wanting to improve the quality of services by requiring private institutions to strengthen health professionals. At the same time, capacity is reduced by 49 24-hour locations in the total private portfolio with which Health South-East is contracted. In addition, they provide for an adjustment to the overall supply by slightly reducing long-term treatment, while strengthening the more short-term treatment. This will lead to more people being offered treatment. I agree with the representative, Sjøli, that the waiting times for multidisciplinary specialised treatment are generally too long. In the case of Health South-East RHF, the Norwegian patient registry figures for the third tertiary in 2007 show that Health South-East has an average waiting time of 52 days. It means significantly shorter waiting time than in the other health regions, but I believe it is a clear objective that waiting times should decrease in all health regions. In this context, I would like to stress that the Patient Rights Act should be adhered to, and I will follow closely the waiting times in all health regions. In this year's mission document to regional health companies, I have asked them to: strengthen the capacity and health professional competence of services to reduce the waiting times for multidisciplinary specialised treatment further develop cooperation with municipalities to have greater growth in multidisciplinary specialised treatment and mental health protection than in somatic care; Reporting in these areas will be able to provide us with good information on whether we will achieve the goals we have set and to which an aggregate increase has joined. Finally, I would like to mention that it is the regional health businesses that have to make assessments of the needs of specialist health services for the population in the respective health regions. This means that it will be up to health regions to assess their needs to enter into agreements with private institutions to provide multidisciplinary specialised treatment for drug addicts. It is a matter of course that I am following this carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1569	I thank the Council of State for the answer. As I see it, the strategy that Health South-East is now setting up leads to shorter and more standardised treatment offers. It is widely criticised by both professionals and drug users. Drug addicts are as different as others, and therefore need a diversity of treatment services. Very many people have been addicted to alcohol in most of their adult lives and therefore need a long time in rehabilitation. From the right, we are concerned that there may now be an overall band treatment, that addicts need to be quickly through treatment and quickly out again. We therefore believe that we need a wide range of services - both short-term and long-term. Of course, the right is of the opinion that quality is required, but there is no contradiction between diversity and quality. Does the Council agree that it is important to maintain a wide range of treatment services for drug addicts, including long-term settings?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1578	What's probably at the bottom of all this is the Patient Rights Act. This means that those patients who need help should be informed of their needs — whether long-term or short-term. Then each health region must assess it on the basis of their knowledge of what patients and users in the region need. I am very concerned that there must be quality in the supply of drug addicts. I don't always think it has been. That's what I think it's important to get fixed. That's why I have, among other things, Called for health care staff to be strengthened, because it does not help if people are very long on a treatment offer, if they do not really get any very good help when they come out. I've visited several institutions of good quality, and I see that those who succeed, but there are institutions that focus a lot on the quality of being there all the time, and also on the fact that patients get follow-up when they get out of the institution.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1585	In Buskerud, there are two women who have experienced for themselves how difficult it is for addicts to get help. As a family and as a professional, they have wanted to do something to improve the supply of drug addicts, and they have therefore set up a whole new drug institution. The institution is often built up to provide a very good quality offering, among other things. through the recruitment of health professionals and experienced professionals. But now it has been informed by Health South-East that they will not use this offer, despite the fact that there are long waiting lists for treatment. This I think is actually showing a cold shoulder-- if I can call it that-- to some firemen who both can and will help to provide better help to addicts. Instead of refusing their offer to help drug addicts, they could impose quality requirements as conditions for the contracts. I have to ask how the Council of State can not use available treatment when people die while waiting for treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1592	I cannot go into the process that is now between the different institutions in Health South-East. It's competition, with negotiations. There is a deadline for complaint that expired on Monday, and it will be finally decided in the middle of May. I would like to emphasise once again that in Health South-East there is more use in private this year than it was done last year, so it is clear that more people can receive treatment this year than last year. And it's going to be that those who need treatment are going to get it, but I can't go into one institution when there's a process going on. I can't do that. But what's important is that in all of this, we are also very concerned about setting quality standards, because if not it won't help those who actually need help. I think it's been too little in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-30.ana.ud2456e1599	Today's map is finished.
