ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e45	Norway is one of the richest countries in the world. We have a standard of living that surpasses most other countries in the world. We have had the absence of war on Norwegian soil for many years. We have an income distribution that is unique in the global context, by being so even. We have a nature and an air that is clean and clear, and that many envy us. We have huge renewable energy resources, which will ensure the well-being of Norway for many years to come. In view of this picture, I believe it is incredible that there are still parties that have made it their main political project to close the doors of those who exist beyond our own borders. In today’s world, over 40 million people are fleeing. People leave their homes because of violent conflicts, hunger and distress and persecution. Many of those who are on the run are children. On the world scale, Norway is a small country for the reception of refugees, but what we do is of course incredibly important for those refugees who are given the opportunity to come here. The SV and the government parties are therefore concerned that Norway must have a humane refugee policy. People who come to Norway to seek asylum are entitled to humane treatment by the authorities, and we have a special responsibility for those who come here as children. The Soria Moria Declaration therefore states: ‘Children coming to Norway as asylum seekers, either alone or with adults, are a particularly vulnerable group. The government will have a special focus on their rights and living conditions. ‘... SV has focused in particular on the rights of asylum-seekers in order to ensure the best interests of these children. This has been an important starting point for our work on the proposal for a foreign law under consideration today. When there are a number of specific provisions in the proposal for the new Foreign Affairs Act to strengthen and safeguard the rights of children, this is in line with what we have wanted: It is laid down that the best interests of the child should be of fundamental importance when considering whether access to family reunification should be granted, including where a right to such reunification is enshrined in the law. It is statutory that refugee assessments should pay particular attention to whether the applicant is a child. It is statutory that the best interests of the child should be of fundamental importance in assessing whether a residence permit should be granted because of strong human considerations or special connection to the rich. Here, a clarification has also been proposed in the law that there may be grounds for granting residence to children, although the situation is not so serious that an adult would have been granted a residence permit. The right to family reunification for cohabitation parents is legalised. With the new Foreign Affairs Act, we are broadening the concept of refugee, which will result in more people gaining refugee status and thus exempting from the maintenance requirement of family reunification. This will also benefit children. It is laid down that the best interests of the child must be of fundamental importance in expulsion cases involving children, i.e.: in cases where the child or one of his or her parents is being deported. The right to family reunification for cohabitants who have children together is legalised even if the cohabitation has not been for two years or more. Today there is no right of residence for cohabitants if the parties have not lived together for at least two years. It is laid down that the best interests of the child should be of fundamental importance when considering whether access to family reunification should be granted, including where a right to such reunification is enshrined in the law. The rules on the residence permit of mother or father of children who are Norwegian citizens are softened. Today, there is an exemption from the right to family reunification in these cases if the parent has a spouse or a partner at the time of entry into the kingdom. Now we remove this exception. The government has also made a more detailed description of who falls within the refugee concept of the Refugee Convention. Here it is, among other things. specified that former victims of trafficking in human beings at risk of persecution by return shall be considered refugees. It is also clarified that acts aimed specifically at sex or children may lead to persecution in the sense of the Refugee Convention. A separate provision has been proposed to emphasise that the refugee assessment should focus on whether the applicant is a child. Today’s foreign law, adopted in 1988, states that the law is to be enforced in accordance with international rules by which Norway is bound. In 2003, the Children’s Convention was made a Norwegian law prior to other legislation by means of the Human Rights Act. Therefore, several of the articles of the Children’s Convention have also been included in the bill, which deals with specific provisions to strengthen and ensure the legal position of children in several places in the law. Article 12 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, as has been said, requires States to allow children to express their views freely in all matters relating to them. Article 12 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child reads: ‘1. The parties shall guarantee to a child who is able to form his/her own views, the right to express his/her views freely in all matters relating to the child and give the child’s views due weight in accordance with his/her age and maturity. 2nd@item: inlistbox For those purposes, the child shall in particular be given the opportunity to be heard in any judicial or administrative proceedings concerning the child, either directly or by a representative or an appropriate authority body and in a manner consistent with the rules of procedure of the country concerned. ‘... The proposed provision is intended to indicate that obligations to let children be heard in foreign affairs and that more nuanced rules are needed. To this end, the majority of the Committee shall determine the following: «The King shall lay down rules on the right of children to be heard. ‘... Although the question of consulting children in foreign affairs may raise a number of dilemmas, it is important, in our view, that children themselves be taken seriously in these kinds of cases. SV is pleased that in the present situation, it is emphasised that gender-related persecution provides a basis for recognition as a refugee under the Refugee Convention and that the Ministry is now preparing guidelines on gender-related persecution. The majority emphasises the importance of clarifying the specific considerations that may apply to issues relating to women and to issues relating to sexual orientation and gender identity. Although the Ministry initially did not find it appropriate to propose fundamental changes in the current organisation and governance of the foreign area, SV is pleased that the Government will set up a public body to assess whether the current complaint case model is the best way to ensure both political governance, legal certainty, non-discrimination and rapid and effective proceedings in these cases. Finally, I would like to make a few comments on the handling of this bill by Storting. Firstly, I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have met the Government in many areas, and that they support us in areas that are also important to the SV. It's e.g. almost a total size which underlines the need to ‘ensure the child-sensitive application of the refugee provisions’. Both the Right Party, the Left Party and the Christian Party are part of this sentence, and it heats up. The same applies to gender-based persecution. I'm proud of this. I'm almost tempted to say that at its best the opposition is really good. But I also want to add that at its worst are parts of the opposition what would be called inedible in other contexts. We have a party in the Chamber today that, according to the VG on 7 April, wants to reduce the number of asylum applications granted to less than 100 per year, to refuse refugees to stay on a humanitarian basis, to stop family reunification and otherwise to reject refugees who cannot read. That's almost how you want to get back to the time when Carl I. Hagen was in front of a group of liberals in San Francisco in 1990, where he said the following: "We have said that we would like to accept refugees via the UN High Commissioner, we have said 1200 people, perhaps not enough. ‘... The quotation is from VG journalist Elisabeth Skarsbø Moen's biography of Carl I. Hagen, page 206. "Perhaps not enough!" No, it might not be. Norway is today one of the richest countries in the world, but still there are some parties that have made it their main political project to make the fatter, the richer, even richer, and close the doors for all the others.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e123	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e126	In 1956, Soviet forces invaded Hungary and shattered a popular uprising against the brutal Communist regime. A quarter of a million Hungarians were driven away, and some came to Norway. The word ‘refugee’ was then a honorary name, but during the next decade the asylum system was gradually eroded and lost both status and trust. Now, the Government will redefine large groups of asylum seekers for refugees and will therefore break the definition of the Refugee Convention. See SV that an undermining of the legitimacy of an asylum system by defining inter alia: long-term asylum seekers as refugees?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e133	SV considers that the extension of the concept of refugee proposed in the proposal for a foreign law does not undermine the legitimacy of the asylum system. On the contrary, this will lead to that of people who need and have the right to protection. Having said that, I would say that it is not the case that during the 1960s and 1970s the asylum system was eroded and lost legitimacy. On the contrary, the asylum system was systematically attacked by political forces who wanted us not to provide protection to people on the run. In today’s world, over 40 million people are fleeing. People must leave their homes because of violent conflicts, hunger, distress and persecution. Many of those who are on the run are children. Norway is a small country, but what we do is incredibly important for those refugees who are given the opportunity to come here. That's what this case is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e140	The right, Christian People's Party and the left have a number of suggestions in the vote that will make it easier for immigrants to come to Norway. Among other things, we suggest that companies that use many specialists from abroad in their workforce should be pre-qualified and have the opportunity to employ themselves, start the employment relationship and then have a post-approved application. We also propose that companies in Norway should be allowed to define the content of what is a specialist to a greater extent, and we also suggest that a person should be given a simpler set of rules, so that persons authorised to work in Norway can also work with projects in other countries, and switch between Norway and other countries. This will make it much easier to secure jobs in Norway, secure activities in Norway. Does SV, when the Government is now working on a big message on this topic, support these proposals and participate in promoting this for Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e149	I would like to point out that the Government will send a big message on labour migration during the spring, but I would also like to refer to the majority of the municipal committee - of which both the Right and the SV are part - has stressed in the attitude, namely that labour immigration “will remain regulated and needs-driven”. And the plural also says, «The need for labour will vary over time, both in terms of nature and scope. The law should therefore be designed as a framework within which only the main principles of labour migration are directly enshrined in the law. The more detailed regulation of labour migration should be provided for. ‘... The majority goes on to say: ‘This facilitates easy regulatory adjustment in line with changes in the labour market situation. ‘... We will present our further views in the further consideration of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e166	In regulations, government parties will reinforce the maintenance requirement for family reunification, in addition, only the income of the resident should be counted. The intention is good, for it is to prevent forced marriage, but SV knows just as well as we do that this is a record bomb and easy to bypass. So, one does not avoid coercion by tightening up the requirements. In reality, sharpening means that it becomes more difficult for those with low incomes to get family reunification. And in addition, there's a strange view of the stranger that there's one coming to Norway to be cared for. This must be a matter that SV has lost in government, or is it really this SV policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e173	SV believes that legalising the best interests of the child should be a fundamental consideration when considering whether access to family reunification should be granted. We are therefore proposing an extended concept of refugee, which means that more people are given refugee status and thus exempt from the maintenance requirement of family reunification. In the case of measures against forced marriage, government parties, on the basis of an overall assessment, have come to the conclusion that the requirement to depend on the dependability of the resident will be strengthened. We believe that stricter requirements for the self-sufficiency of those living in Norway will ensure that they are financially independent of the family. We therefore believe that this could be an effective measure in the fight against coercion. SV is also pleased that there is such a broad consensus about children in the Stortinget, but I have to allow myself to ask the Christian People's Party representative: what other government constellation could get to anything more in this area than what we have done now?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e182	The change of reply is over, and the question can certainly be answered when I now give the word to Bjørg Tørresdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e185	I am pleased that the new Foreign Affairs Act involves steps in the right direction. The Christian People's Party agrees with the Government in many areas, but in some areas we wanted to go further. I'll come back to this. It is very positive that we are expanding the basis for refugee status. In addition to the recognition of the need for protection, such as: The UN has been concerned about, giving refugee status also a few more rights in the Norwegian community than the humanitarian stay provides. More extensive regulation of the law also gives the Storting back greater power over foreign policy. Several questions of principle shall be determined by the Storting and there shall be clearer principles for the exercise of the judgement. There has been too much room to exercise discretion in the matters that have been discussed. Now the legal text itself specifies much more clearly what, among other things. the term ‘human cause’ implies. The new law also gives children an independent right to protection. The legal text states that both children should be able to attend hearings in the application process and that children’s own relationship with Norway should be emphasised. That's good. But then, the need for migrant workers from outside Europe is great, and business is hampered by long-term and complex procedures. We have waited a long time and long wanted the Government's report on labour immigration. It's really starting to rush, and we had hoped that the government parties would be willing to adopt a chapter in the position that could contribute to business simplification. Unfortunately, they were not willing to do that. And while competition for labour is going on elsewhere in Europe, Norway is losing ground for every day that goes. Paperless immigrants are among the weakest groups in our society. It is people who come from the most troubled corners of the world, people who have fled from warlike and civil war-like conditions. Many have suffered torture and assault and have a well-founded fear of returning to their homeland. The paradox is that these illegal immigrants are probably among the most law-abiding citizens we have here in the country. They can't take the risk of sneaking on the trimmer or snuffing at the store. They must live as invisible as possible in order not to be discovered and sent out of the country. This also means that they become people without legal protection. They can be exploited in the most serious way without being able to report to the authorities or the police. This makes them a very vulnerable group. I believe that paperless people must be entitled to health care in addition to emergency care. Lack of such assistance may lead to serious consequences for the health of individuals. At the same time, this situation can create considerable pressure on health workers and non-governmental organisations meeting this challenge in practice. According to Stavanger Aftenblad last week, applicants for asylum who have been denied the applications and who have gone underground will have a new chance of the government parties if they choose to cooperate. The representative, Stokkan-Grande, says: ‘Every person cooperating will receive food and shelter on the asylum recipients until it is possible to return them: [[...]] It is good that there will be such a system for those who cooperate on returns, but here I see a need to get more concrete on what it means to cooperate in this context. Is it true that Stokkan-Grande believes that an asylum seeker who has been rejected and gone underground, but then says he is willing to cooperate with the Norwegian authorities on return, will indeed also be covered by the three-year residence permit scheme? What does it mean that you have the cooperation? I also believe that this system is not good enough. I believe that those who have been here without papers must be given an opportunity to review the matter where the housing and connection to the kingdom is emphasised. Return, return, return was the government's solution to the situation of the paperless in Norway. I believe that the Council of States, when he says it, refuses to deal with the existence of these people. Because if the return is the solution, why weren't they returned yesterday? There are different reasons why people have ended up in the paperless situation. A large number of people are likely to have finally rejected the asylum application. Some have come on tourist visas and have stayed in the country. Others have come into the country without having been registered. Most people have probably received a refusal to apply for a stay and then went underground. For whatever reason, we have a moral responsibility to sort out when people live for years in an unsolved situation. Humanitarian and human rights considerations must be balanced against the restrictive line of Norwegian refugee and asylum policies. It must be possible to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. I believe that we should have an effective return system in Norway. It is not that everyone who comes to the country needs protection. But then we have to take seriously that there are some people in this country who have lived in an unsolved situation for years. They can't stay, and they can't be sent home. I have been contacted by people who have lived in the country for up to 10 years. Then there's something about our system that doesn't work the way it should. We have to take the consequences of that. We have to pick the least evil in a situation that's not ideal. We have thousands of unregistered people in this country. We have to do something about it. We need to avoid more people going underground. The easiest thing is to start at the other end, just by preventing. Among other things, the Council of State can ensure that the procedure is streamlined, so that people do not have to sit for years and wait for their situation to be clarified. Then I think fewer will jump off and go underground. So for tightening up the maintenance requirement, which is the result of a compromise in the Government. It's meant to avert coercion, but unfortunately, it hits blindly. I believe that the tightening of the maintenance requirement represents a discrimination between people with good income and people who earn badly. The number of persons affected by the increase is high and several groups previously exempted are subject to the condition. In fact, there are nearly 1.5 million people in Norway, from 17 years of age and older, who earn as little as the increase here implies. The average income of persons with a minority background is below the proposed requirement. Besides, women serve less than men. So it'll be easier for men than women to marry a foreign partner. I believe it is unreasonable that the stranger himself cannot meet the maintenance requirement. In addition, forced marriage should in principle be combated by the penal code, not by the Foreign Affairs Act. There have been varying ways of protecting munitions and other outlying activities in breach of socio-cultural standards in the country of origin in Norwegian practice. That problem also applies to gays. The Christian People's Party, together with the Left, has proposed that the UNHCR guidelines on religious persecution be followed in these kinds of cases. The UNHCR underlines that it is not possible to require the persecuted to conform to the expectations of persecutors in order to avoid persecution. Here, Norwegian practice is contrary to UNHCR guidelines, when it requires the asylum seeker to comply with socio-cultural standards in the home country. It would never be required of a political refugee. I find it hard to imagine that Aung San Suu Kyi would be rejected if she had applied for protection in Norway, telling you that you can go home fine, it's probably going well, only you're complying with the socio-cultural norms in Burma. So this is what is required of the real religious persecutors and homosexuals. I am very disappointed, and I cannot really understand why the Government does not show the will to follow the High Commissioner for Refugees' Guidelines in these kinds of matters. Is it the case that government parties disagree with UNHCR guidelines in the case of faith persecuted? In that case, what does this disagreement consist of? Summary: Christian People's Party supports the proposal for a new foreign law. There is a clear improvement in the respect of children’s rights, and more asylum seekers will be given refugee status. A number of conditions are specifically regulated by law, and there is less discretion for UDI and UNE. But we're directly in disagreement with enhanced maintenance requirements, which came into force in the regulations. The Christian People's Party believes that today we are adopting a law of discharge that does not give any answers in the case of paperless immigrants. The majority of the population does not assume that we have a large group of people living in hiding. We wish that we had taken some further steps today in the matter of paperless people, in relation to children, and in relation to those who risk being persecuted because of their faith. With that, I will address both the proposals in the setting on which the Christian People's Party is alone, and those we are with the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e233	The representative, Bjørg Tørresdal, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e238	It is very important that applicants for a stay in Norway cooperate with the Norwegian authorities, not least in view of the fact that it is essential that those coming to Norway do not carry papers. The Christian People's Party has a very liberal attitude here. I'm sure it's well intentional, but I think for myself that it's a little wise. It is important that we have a system that stimulates cooperation. If illegal residence is rewarded with a residence permit, is it not the Christian People's Party that is concerned that it will undermine respect for the law and weaken the institution of asylum, which is intended to protect those who have a real need for protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e245	The Christian People's Party is very concerned that we get to put into practice what is meant by cooperation. Some of those who have come to Norway and have applied for protection have been advised not to have ID papers on them. They come from a situation where at all other points they need protection, but because they've made some mistake in the process, a person can view them as people who don't cooperate. It is important for their legal certainty that we define what cooperation is, so that there are some who are subject to that change. The fear of the Christian People's Party is that no one will be covered by the fine proposal that is in the position that those who have been here and cooperated will be allowed to stay after three years. So our purpose is that we don't have to look at the details of the process that destroys these, but make concrete what cooperation is. We need to stimulate cooperation by putting into practice what we mean. According to the NOAS, very few will be covered by what is in the setting today, and it concerns us.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e252	I'm a little shocked and surprised by the Christian People's Party and the representative Tørresdal's media performance in the last few days. They believe that the Progress Party's proposal for a new foreign law is a new Jewish paragraph. The representative believes that the tragic and cruel experiences of the Jews in the 1930s, and not least during the last world war, are comparable to those of immigration policies such as those of the United States and Japan. has Denmark, where the bourgeois government has implemented large parts of the immigration policy of the Progress Party since 2001?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e257	We had the Jewish paragraph in the century before World War II. We'd gone with it in history. It said that Jews did not have access to the kingdom. I've never said it's a new Jewish paragraph. I have said that it is similar when the Progress Party says that their differentiated immigration policy is about saying no to some ethnic groups. If one rephrases it, it becomes: Somalis do not have access to Norway if they come as quota refugees. That's how I understand the policy of the Progress Party, and then I think it looks a little bit like the paragraph we had. I have not stated what happened in the 1930s and during the Second World War, but I have expressed my opinion on the paragraph we had, which is a pamphlet in our history, where we excluded ethnic groups from Norway in the 1800s, i.e. until 1851. So I'm going a little bit further back in my story. I think it is sad, and I hope that the Progress Party will stop shocking us with its proposals for alternative foreign law.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e262	The representative Tørersdal was occupied by the paperless in his post. It's important to remember that there are two categories of paperless. It is either those who have applied and have been treated their application for several rounds, and then have received a rejection, or people who have not applied at all. We have to have that in the bottom. What surprises me with the comments of the representative Tørresdal is that she is in charge of the Finnish model, as I understand it. And it says in the note from the Christian People's Party that even those who don't cooperate voluntarily, but who could have returned if they had cooperated, will get a two-year residence permit. Does not the representative Tørresdal see that they make a practice in which those who do not cooperate - when it is stated in the Commentary of the Christian People's Party that they could actually return if they would - will be allowed to stay, while those who cooperate, who want to be law-abiding and follow the system we have in Norway, will not be allowed to stay? Do you want to reward those who do not cooperate with Norwegian authorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e269	With regard to the proposal that goes on the paperless, our proposal is completely identical to what the Refugee Council has said, and both the Salvation Army, the Bymition and all the Christian organizations have joined forces and said that we must do something for that group. One of the first things we have to do is define what we mean by cooperation. These are people who come from a difficult situation, who have had trouble telling their whole story in the first interview. We suggest that they get a new interview, so that they can safely tell their entire story and be judged on the basis of it. Our objection to what's in the setting is that it's too clever to say that they're going to cooperate, when you don't specify what it is. We want to take these people seriously, define what cooperation is, and give them a new chance. It is not so easy to cooperate on return if return involves a risk of persecution and torture.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e276	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e279	My generation lives in a time when we travel very much. Last January, my family and I traveled to Gran Canaria. We got a great hotel room. We cost ourselves on the balcony, so beyond and enjoy the view until we saw that in front of the hotel patrolled the coastguards and helicopters to capture any African boat refugees. My family and I traveled down there to enjoy the abundance, while others came there because of distress. The evenings on the balcony got a bismach, because the ethical dilemmas got so close. With the differences that exist, it is not surprising that we see an ever-increasing migration of people, a migration of faith in a better life. The world, with the knowledge we have of each other's lives and the opportunities we have to move, has become dramatically much less. At a time when we're all moving, we're going to adopt a foreign law that reflects this reality and that addresses the challenges and dilemmas we're facing. It's not easy, because the dilemmas are many. One example is that we are developing a refugee and asylum policy in which only those who, according to more stringent criteria, need to stay get it, while, on the other hand, we are now adding to an increasingly offensive recruitment of foreign labour. This should be balanced correctly, and it is this balance that I feel that we have come to a great deal in today's proposal for a new foreign law. There is reason to warn against the developments we see in the public debate. We see trends that some immigrants are defined as an accident and others as a rescue for Norway. It's said that you only want the high-educated elite immigrant, who can yield to the country, and not the persecuted illiterate. With the increased attention to labour immigration, we have to be careful not to get a human vision where everything has to be graduated. Unfortunately, we see some leads to that. Fortunately, few are yet. For me, it's essential that people are people. Whether they're illiterate, bakers or professors, there's basically one thing that counts, and that's that they're fellow humans. In public vocabulary, and also in the setting, it seems that some people are of the opinion that Norway can lie like a totally isolated island in the world, and that we who live here can close our eyes and more or less give the bluff in what's happening elsewhere. Both morally and tactically, it is for a small country like Norway that those who have such an approach are very alone. We cannot close our eyes because millions of people are fleeing from war, natural disasters, persecution and hunger. I think we all, except for the party that almost does not want immigration, see that people can best be helped where they come from. Of course, that's the best thing for most people. At the same time, we in Norway have a responsibility to help people seeking refuge in our country. Norwegian asylum and refugee policy should be based on our humanist traditions and on our international responsibility for helping people in need. That's what the law we're now adopting is. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the theme of immigration and integration has been addressed in depth. The red-green majority has many ambitions in this field, ambitions that have been well seen in the Foreign Affairs Act. As I have already learned, the international commitments are fundamental to our immigration policy. The Central Party has programmed that the Norwegian authorities should take greater account of the recommendations and guidelines of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees in the practice of the Refugee Convention. The Foreign Affairs Act emphasises precisely that the UNHCR recommendations are to be weighed heavily by the Norwegian authorities’ interpretation of the Refugee Convention. Furthermore, we believe that the desire to make visible who is receiving a residence permit because of international obligations is good. Getting more clarity about the basis for stay and our international commitments will hopefully help to strengthen the legitimacy of the policy we are pursuing. Our national policies are being developed. There is no supranational body that governs. But the central party's policy is based on the international obligations that we have chosen to assume on our own initiative. There are unfortunately different perceptions of how we should deal with our international obligations on these fundamental questions for us people. ‘The perspective of Norwegian security must be ahead of academic issues in international conventions’, said Per-Willy Amundsen, spokesman for immigration policy in the Spring. It scares. We must remember when the European Convention on Human Rights was created. It became shortly after World War II. The aim was to secure fundamental rights and freedoms, which form the basis for justice and peace in the world. Reducing this to a light academic issue testifies to a frightening lack of understanding of the importance of human rights as a tool to ensure peace and stability. A fundamental respect for human rights, I think over time, is a prerequisite for the security of all of us, even though it may seem right now to rise above them. For the individual, and for a small country like Norway, I believe that from a selfish point of view we also serve to strengthen these conventions. Human dignity must underpin all immigration and integration policies. An important clarification in the proposition applies to those who are not legally resident in Norway. The basic thing is that you don't have the right to stay, you have to get out. And the broadcasting work needs to be given high priority. Unfortunately, many people are illegal in Norway for a short or longer time. These are people who are here for a lot of different reasons. But common to these is that they live in hiding and are afraid to be sent out. The consequence is often that they do not seek the necessary public health care or other necessary assistance, even if they are entitled to do so. The fear of being discovered and sent out is too great, and many cannot pay the cost of medicine or any treatment. This can also affect children, both children who have gone into hiding with caregivers in Norway and children born of so-called paperless parents in Norway. The consequences for those who live hidden in Norway are obvious. For society else, it can also have negative ring-effects. Infectious diseases that are not treated may spread. Persons who are not helped to deal with severe trauma may present a risk. I believe it is important to clarify that it is not illegal to provide humanitarian aid to irregular migrants who live in Norway. Every human being has the right to humanitarian assistance for the protection of infection, safety and not least for the sake of human dignity. Although the primary objective is quite clear and clear, namely to ensure that those who no longer have legal residence are returned, we need the kind of clarification that it is permissible to help people in need humanitarianally. There are many sad fates because of the increased migration of the people. Many put themselves in a terrible situation, and the children are innocent in this. Many children face a difficult situation because of the unwise choices of their parents or other adults. For us in the Center Party, taking into account the best interests of children has been a focus area. Therefore, we are pleased that the law provides that refugee assessments should take into account whether the applicant is a child, that the management should make thorough assessments of all aspects of the child’s situation that may have an impact on the matter, and that these assessments should be made clear in the decisions. It is also necessary to make visible how the consideration of the child has been assessed in relation to any other conflicting considerations. The strengths of children's rights in the law are good, and it shows that we in Norway want to have an immigration policy that puts the child's best in focus. The law we adopt today, I believe, has a good balance in balancing the many dilemmas we face, at a time when we all travel and move much more.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e309	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e312	In many municipalities, I see that the Centre Party and the Advance Party are cooperating and agreeing on the local immigration policy as to how limited the reception of immigrants should be in each municipality. This is because they experience the same challenges for individual municipalities in receiving immigrants. In Oslo, there are now a majority of immigrants in 48 out of 138 primary schools. There's 27 more schools than 7 years ago. It goes without saying that integration is almost impossible when ethnic Norwegian students are in a clear minority. The question is, when and what will the Central Party do to reverse this trend?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e320	The centre party is occupied by the municipal self-government authority, that the municipalities themselves should become active in settling immigrants in their municipality. And you're going to do that to a great extent. As Ib Thomsen says, it's right that we have major challenges in integrating some groups. We just have to work on that continuously. That is why we have already this year reintroduced Norwegian education in reception, so that when people enter Norway, they can have a more active life early in the process, from the first day of their stay. What's the main motto of the Center Party is that we have to put in place all possible measures to get people to move from passivity to activity. We haven't done a good enough job, and there we all sit and rule in this country, a common responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e329	The representatives of the centre party often engage in individual cases. An example of this is the Darren case, the Darren case from Nigeria, which traveled to Norway and sought asylum. Before he was granted a residence permit, he worked illegally and thus broke the Foreign Affairs Act. He married a Norwegian girl and had a child with her, but he was refused and was sent out of the country because he had broken the foreign law. The centre party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have engaged strongly in this matter. In order to help Darren and those in his situation, it is necessary to include in the law that there should be a concrete proportionality assessment, where one assesses the seriousness of the breach of the foreign law and the family situation in question in relation to each other. The centre party was on the track in the matter in question, but they did not support the comment of the Left and Christian People's Party in the legal work. Where was the centre party when the matter was to be brought into the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e336	I am concerned that we should have a non-resident administration based on non-discrimination, and although I or another co-representative engages in a special case, fortunately we cannot have a direct influence. It's going to be an equality for the law, no matter how strong the individual speaks. It is good that big business representatives engage in individual matters. In this way you can see whether there are fundamental changes you should make, and then they must cover everyone. I do not have the opportunity to go into this individual matter. But I am, in principle, very concerned that we, as growth representatives, should be very careful to give hope to people when we do not have the opportunity to go in and manage individual matters. It's a practice I think is right. But we have to discuss individual matters in order to see if we can make fundamental changes. We believe that the law we have now passed provides a good opportunity for good and fair non-discrimination for people who are applying for a stay in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e343	The Central Party programme does not say much about asylum and refugee policy, but there is actually a passus on the fight against coercion. I have a neighbor in Old Town. She's a doctoral student. She's fallen in love with a South African boy. While taking practice as a medical student, she does not serve enough according to the requirements that the central party in the government is now in favour of, to be able to get her girlfriend, who has been offered a job in Oslo, at all. Nevertheless, the Central Party is going against all the proposals that the Left has actually promoted to combat coercion, which will provide a targeted system. For it is the coercion of life - not the young love. Why is it so important for the Center Party to stop the Norwegian medical student who just now doesn't have enough pay to get a man home who can get a full job? Why do they not want to support all the proposals made by the Left, which are targeted in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e352	It's not important for the Center Party to stop the Norwegian medical student. We have been for the increase in maintenance requirements, but we also want there to be exceptional provisions in the legislation that will be designed. So you have to look at that. In terms of work against coercion, the government has been very active here. It presented an action plan and provided a lot of money for this work. We will see what results the attitude-creating work provides in the long term. We also believe that the measures we are now implementing in the Foreign Affairs Act, and the exceptions that will come later, will in the long term produce good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e361	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e364	First of all, I want to start by commending the Government -- I'm collecting the rose at first, so you can get ready for it -- for the clearing job done with the new alien law. NOU work was started in Bondevik II's time, but it's a very important job to make the law more consistent and collect things that have previously been around the law, into the law. I also want to boast that a lot of good things have been done about children, and about respecting UNHCR's priorities. I think that's well done. I am also pleased that during the examination in committee the government fraction has addressed a comment that was important to the Left in terms of the right to provide help to those who are undocumented, that it is not a crime. There is quite a broad consensus on the main acts of the Foreign Affairs Act. It is largely just the Progress Party that is standing on the outside of the debate. But there's probably a lot of grip left would do differently if we could. We think it is important to have a strict, humane, flexible and modern foreign law. With regard to the institution of refugees, the institution of asylum, and also parts of the system of reunification, it is largely governed by what we have taken on from international commitments. As far as immigration is concerned, I think we should be as cynical as we can with regard to the people we want to come to our country. Therefore, there are quite different approaches to the rules of the Institute for Refugees and Asylum and to the rules of the Institute for Immigration at Work. The Labour Migration Institute is the area where we're going to be able to cost ourselves to choose the ones we want. Here the Progress Party seems to have misunderstood. They believe that it is at the Institute for Refugees and Asylum that people should be selected according to the needs of the country and not according to the needs of individual people. Getting effective and good practice is a huge challenge for the whole field. We've wanted a good deal of simple grip that we've put in here, which we think would make things simpler and more effective. In the time of the Bondevik II government, we introduced what is called differentiated procedure, where we also provided for a quick expulsion of those who were obviously groundless applicants. It was very effective. It reduced treatment time, and it also ended some inflows from countries where persecution is not at the level of persecution in those countries from which many asylum seekers are granted their applications. We also think it has been a good grip to ensure the right to change the road. Today, especially from the Right, it has been said that there are many cynical people who are making money on smuggling. That's it. But there are also too many other opportunities to get out of a country. And one could also call the limitless people, who transported people to Sweden during the war, human traffickers. They were, according to many definitions of ‘human traffickers’. Some of them actually also received payment for the job they did. Some of those who help asylum seekers out of the country do so with a good heart and not just to make money. It's not possible to have a black and white attitude to that. The fact that many of them get instructions that are wrong, so that they get a worse treatment of their applications, and that they also get the wrong guidance on what to do, means that we probably have a more inconsistent procedure than we could have had. That's what the Left believes could get easier by switching the way. So that you can apply for reunification from the realm. We don't quite understand why you should be punished for going back if you like. have formed a family and had children here, why it is very important to send the application from another country. With regard to visa policy, there are two things I want to address. The first is that we really believed in the government parties when they were positive about the love visa. We actually thought that when they said that, they meant it. That SV has become completely toothless during the work on the law, we can live with it, but I have to say that it is bad to experience what has happened to the love visa. We also have a proposal together with the Right and Christian People's Party to look at and make better, effective routines, for example. related to the return visit so that we can make our visa rules more viable against making arrangements that ensure that we know that people have returned. The left has been very concerned with gender-based asylum. There have been said many good words in the matter for which I think I should pay particular attention when it comes to persecution on the basis of gender. The perspectives are there, but lowering the threshold, especially in relation to this group, they're not included. It's stopped the good words. I believe that the child law perspective is also strengthened in the Government's proposal, but the concept of "migration-regulating considerations" versus child law still seems unclear to me. For the left, it is important not to use the term ‘best of children’, which we use in Norwegian child protection, in such an assessment. We admit that you have to have a different perspective, because most children will actually feel better in Norway than in almost any other country. However, the need to ensure that a broadcast is child law-appropriate, we believe, is important and must be balanced against what is termed ‘policy considerations for immigration’. Then to the paperless. What surprises me here is that the government really does not have any suggestions on this. They have no proposals for solutions. How SV can live with it, I don't understand. We've tried to make some suggestions to see how we can meet the challenge it actually is. And anyone trying to simplify this picture is wrong. We think it is important to give priority to children who have lived a long time in the country. We think it's right to introduce the right to a new interview, and if you can't execute a broadcast, we think it's better to give people work permits than to let them live on social welfare. We think people have to get the right to settle. Then, together with the Christian People's Party and the Right, we have put in a series of proposals on coercion, and I am amazed that these have not been supported by more. I had expected a party like this. The progress party would like some of the proposals we made here, because they have shown great commitment in that area. It is a matter of introducing a declaration of will before going out for the subsequent approval of the marriage and of introducing anonymous testimonies. It is important to bet at foreign stations and to place greater emphasis on the assessments of foreign stations. We also want to be able to bet on all the changes needed in the environments. I believe that these problems are, in fact, best addressed in their environments and not at the borders of the country. Finally, I would like to address a topic that the Government has now pushed ahead of it, because for some reason the debate on labour immigration has not been wanted along with this debate. But then I hope that the government has received all the suggestions that the opposition has made, in the work on the new message that has been notified - in terms of flexibility, prior approval of employers, starting work on employment and then by verbal approval, obtaining a jobseeker's visa, and making it easier for those who have taken training in the country. I hope this isn't just ideas that stay here on the table, which we have to promote again, but that the government has actually taken them over when they come with their notified message. I hope the release here does not come too close during the approval from the Government. Then I actually have one minute left, but it's shocking to get 10 minutes of speaking time-- I almost never have. But at least I want to take the chance to pick up the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e406	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e411	In the vote, the Left has the right to give our embassies the power to grant asylum, i.e. asylum in the asylum seeker's own country, which is contrary to the terms of the Refugee Convention, which says that you should be outside the country of which you are a citizen. We have great confidence in our foreign stations, but are not the Left concerned that our principle of regulated and controlled immigration could then be undermined? And: is the Left not concerned that Norway will receive a large number of asylum applications also from people who do not really need protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e418	This is something we ask the Government to consider. I think it is nice that the Workers' Party and SV do not go for this - the Workers' Party and the SV, which must feel close to it as for example. happened at the Norwegian Embassy in Chile when Pinochet took power. It is a matter of setting up a system in which Norwegian, competent diplomats, who are also active for human rights locally, are given an opportunity to use the institution of asylum in extreme cases to save people from oppositionals who would otherwise be threatened. This is actually an idea that comes from Norwegian diplomats, and presented to us. I mean it's based on a tradition that skilled Norwegian diplomats have actually saved a lot of oppositionists who have fought an important battle. I also believe that with such healthy and politically close ties to what happened in Chile, I thought that maybe SV and the Workers' Party had a more understanding of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e423	Left encourages parents in poor countries to set children alone on the first flight to Norway. In fact, that is the consequence of the Left's proposal, whether immigration policy concerns should be lowered in matters relating to children. Does the Left have no sympathy with single minor asylum seekers and their parents? Pro forma marriage is a major problem, but the Left will make it even easier to trick yourself into Norway. Now you don't even have to finger a wedding, because with Left's proposal for a girlfriend visa, it's free. Does the Left really think it should be that simple?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e440	A lot of the kids the representative talks about don't have parents. We have had an example from Sri Lanka where we have sent a child back to a violent grandfather. We have several examples of this, which the representative of the Progress Party has probably also heard of. What we're saying is not that all children will be allowed to sail if they come alone. We say that if this is the case that the child suffers from congestion by being sent out, it is not immigration policy considerations, but the child's rights must weigh more heavily. It's not about many, but it's very much about the dignity of our policies. So for pro forma. The defeat of love, as the Party of Advancement does with its proposals, is quite incredible. But to think that not being allowed to test your love before getting married leads to greater coercion, I think actually leads to the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e449	I will continue where the representative now left off. The centre party and the left, as I know them, are two parties concerned with the cleanliness of the law, a law that is transparent so that you can see the basis for the practice being conducted. New schemes, such as: girlfriend visa, for which the Left speaks through its Document No. Eight proposals, which are also mentioned in this case. How should such a visa be verified? What kind of judgement should be considered? How are we going to get a clean-up around a proper stay in connection with a girlfriend's visa? I understand the intention. But what kind of public practice are we going to have to define "girlfriends"? We have an engagement visa. You can have a three-month visit, and you can get married. I understand that the intention is good, but I can't understand how a party that wants cleanliness around government will manage to get it with a girlfriend's visa.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e454	Then I have to explain it to the representative. Getting an engagement visa is not easy. Church must be determined, and everything must be booked. For the medical student that I mentioned in the line instead, it took a year to get a visa when she was to be visited. It's actually about a visa. It's not about permanent stay. It's not about citizenship. It's not about being allowed to be here forever. It's about a visa rule. What surprises me the most is that we had a majority for this just a short time ago. Since this document No. The 8-proposal was dealt with here in the hall, it was just the Progress Party that was opposed. Everyone was positive. All the parties thought it was a good grip. But now it's all of a sudden terrible, little thoughtful and not possible to see the consequences of. It's a little funny that you go from hailing a proposal in one case, and then you think it's completely inconsistent in another case.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e461	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e464	Today's Foreign Affairs Act was designed in 1988. Since that time a lot has changed. There are many more immigrants in Norway today and new groups and categories are represented. The Foreign Affairs Act is becoming more and more important. It is therefore desirable to have a comprehensive review of the legislation and a broad political process on which basic principles and legal rules should apply. The law must take account of a number of different considerations, such as: taking into account the social considerations of individuals and families, the best possible means of facilitating legal cross-border movement shall be: It is important that the Storting adopts the main principles of the Foreign Affairs Act. Therefore, it is suggested that the principles should be regulated to a much greater extent than today. The legislative proposal is based on the Government's desire to pursue a humane, solidarity and legally secure refugee and asylum policy. Persons entitled to protection without falling within the scope of the Refugee Convention are currently granted a residence permit following the provision on strong human considerations. I think this is unfortunate. As with the Foreign Law Committee, the Government therefore proposes that everyone entitled to international protection be covered by the concept of refugee law and be given the same rights. I would just like to stress that this means that we will now use the term ‘refugee’ to refer to people who already have a recognised right of protection in all European countries. The change is in line with the wishes of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. In the same way as other countries it is natural to compare with, we also believe that it is right to continue a system that allows the granting of a residence permit based on an assessment of strong human interests - so-called a humanitarian residence permit. It is in line with Norway’s best Christian, humanist and humanitarian traditions to accommodate particularly vulnerable groups. These matters are often very complex and complicated. The proposal for a new law provides clearer and more comprehensive guidance on the exercise of discretion than today. It is also clarified that humanitarian considerations need to be balanced against any immigration regulatory considerations. This latter is not visible in the applicable legal provision. An important issue discussed in the proposal concerns foreigners who stay in the country after final rejection. The fact is that we work with, among other things: International Organization for Migration, IOM, can organise voluntary returns to almost every country in the world to which we believe it is safe to return. In practice, therefore, those who remain in Norway after a final rejection will be persons who, despite a legally adopted decision, choose to break Norwegian law. As far as this group is concerned, I believe it is wrong to impose any special rights for a residence permit in Norway. In the case of family immigration, this is, in numerical terms, the main basis for lasting immigration to Norway. In 2007, a total of 17,900 residence permits were granted to family members. In this area, there are several challenges, especially related to forced marriage and pro forma marriage. We also know that some Norwegian men use women who apply to the West through marriage. In the case of forced marriage, the Government has been in favour of a wide range of measures. The government will strengthen rules on maintenance requirements. It shall ensure that the person who draws a spouse from abroad has an independent financial position. That's how we think the risk of coercion is reduced. The legislative proposal goes on to add a somewhat more stringent pro forma assessment than today. In a short time, the government will present a major communication on labour immigration. The government wants an offensive, targeted and long-term labour immigration policy. An important objective of the Government is to strengthen the legal certainty of children in the foreign field. This is done through a number of proposals. Among other things, the bill contains rules that strengthen the right of children to family life. The proposal also provides that the refugee assessment should pay particular attention to whether the applicant is a child. Furthermore, it has been proposed that the best interests of the child should be a fundamental consideration in assessing whether or not a residence permit should be granted for reasons of strong human interest or special connection to the rich. The legislative proposal contains proposals for restrictions on expulsion and expulsion, including: increased access to prison in the context of the implementation of decisions. In addition, provision will be made, under detailed conditions, to provide legal support for the obligation to notify and to provide a specific place of residence for persons who have protected themselves from posting as their sole basis of residence. These are new measures. Those protected from deployment cannot be placed in closed custody until the deployment process is initiated without breaching the European Convention on Human Rights. However, the legislative proposal promotes measures that can be applied to this group before the deployment process has started. Both seizures of travel documents, reporting obligations and specific places of residence are measures that are explicitly addressed to such persons. I also remind you that offences against such orders can lead to punishment. The active substances are particularly intended to be used against non-residents presenting a risk to the fundamental national interests. In addition, the government is investigating whether detention is an instrument that can be used against persons who are not protected from expulsion and are able to return themselves. With regard to the criminal provisions of the Foreign Affairs Act, I have noticed that the majority is asking for clarification of the bill which prohibits intentional aid to foreigners who are residing illegally in the kingdom. In line with the majority's request, I will return to Stortinget with a proposal for a precise legal provision before the law enters into force. I have also noticed that the Committee asks for consideration to be given to setting up a sample to look at whether today's complaint case model is the best way to ensure both political governance, legal certainty, non-discrimination and rapid and effective procedure. This will be followed up by the Department. The government is broadly disillusioned with the main features of foreign policy. The bourgeois opposition is to the degrees divided. The Christian People's Party and the Left want more changes in the liberal direction, including: in the case of persons illegally present in Norway following a final refusal. The Party wishes to tighten up, which in some cases also means challenging or going directly across fundamental human rights obligations. How these parties should be able to design something that looks like a common alternative policy to the Government is a mystery. The government's foreign policy is safe in the middle of the political landscape.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e519	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e522	We live at a time when most countries around us in Europe are tightening up their immigration policies. The last time we saw that Sweden, of all people, made new signals in this way and is thinking of reducing its immigration. So in this situation, the government is going in the opposite direction. Clearly, there is no desire or will to establish a law on foreigners that can reduce and control immigration to Norway, so that we can integrate the people who come here every year. And when we don't tighten up, and the others do, the number will just increase for every year that goes. My question to the Council of State is, When does the number of immigrants get too large? When will the problems of immigration become so great that even the Council of State will put the brake on it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e531	I am primarily very proud to live in a country where those who come here and seek asylum get their case dealt with properly in line with international agreements. If they need protection, they should be. And if there are other strong human reasons, they shall be. That it is not a policy for which the Progress Party stands, I respect that. I am just very happy that the debate in the Chamber today shows that, fortunately, it is not that the Progress Party will have a majority in favour of it. So that policy government is now running, has a broad uprising in the Stortinget. We can see that from today's debate. The number of asylum seekers we believe will come to Norway this year is estimated at about 10,000, and that is the average for the last few years. So describing 10,000 asylum seekers to Norway as something dramatic is wrong. It's a number in line with the average over the last few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e538	I agree with the Council of State that one should be proud that one has a country where people treat their asylum seekers properly and where their protection needs and other considerations are properly assessed. However, as the Council of State is also aware, there are people who are exploiting this system, who are training the proceedings and thereby train them out or finally reject them through repeated attempts to reopen the case without there being any grounds for doing so. In the evening post of 4 April 2006, the Council of State said: ‘In the work on new foreign law, I will consider measures to prevent persons with a final refusal from trying to train the case by constantly putting forward new requests for conversion. ‘... The right has put forward proposals on this subject. But can the Council of State explain what the Government has proposed to meet the promises made by the Council of State two years ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e550	It is suggested that we have considered the entire appeal procedure - of course - as part of the work on the bill, and have chosen through our proposal for a new law on foreigners to continue the complaint we have today. But there is quite a broad discussion of the entire appeal procedure in the legislative proposal, which thus concludes by continuing the current system. Then, as I said in my post, I have noticed that there is a strong wish from the Storting that it is considered that setting up a sample to look at whether today's complaint model is the best way to ensure both political governance, legal certainty, non-discrimination and rapid and effective proceedings. I'll make sure to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e558	The government is engaged in fighting coercion, and it seems the Christian People's Party is good. That is why the Christian People's Party and other parties have also proposed a number of targeted measures to avoid the implementation of forced marriage. The government wants to sharpen the demand for entertainment, and we think that's going to hit blindly. It also affects people other than those for whom it is intended, and I think it's a little thoughtful suggestion, especially the part that says that the income of the stranger who comes should not count. So when the lone mother falls in love with an American who can have a million-dollar income - a sort of "Rockefeller story" - he will not be allowed to come to Norway, because he cannot support her. It's going to be wrong. Does the Council not see that the maintenance requirement has a number of unintended effects, that it is a wrong approach, and that one needs to be more focused?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e567	The first thing that strikes me is that the Christian People's Party is happy about all that the Government has done after the Christian People's Party went out of government. We just have to take note of that. Now, suddenly, the rights of children have been strengthened, and in a number of areas, after the Christian People's Party has left the government, we now have a foreign policy that is in line with what the Christian People's Party wants. The Christian People's Party very often conducts very short-term analyses and bases the wrong conclusions on a totally incorrect analysis. If an American has a job offer in Norway with a million income as an option, this American is granted a residence permit on an independent basis as an immigrant. It is if you do not have work and have to be cared for when you come to Norway that the maintenance requirement ensures that it is not the State that is responsible for caring for the person concerned, but the person who provides the foreigner with a residence permit, for example. a marriage. So the example is completely outside of what this matter applies.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e574	In danger of also giving examples outside the case, I would like to express the impatience of the Left in terms of labour immigration. In this regard, I have two questions for the Council of State. According to the NRC this evening, Norway will have 120,000 fewer economically active than today in 2030. This will make it particularly difficult to keep the level we want in the health and social sector. In the evening post Tonight we can read that a new circular from the UDI has stopped the possibility of restaurants in Oslo to get in cooks of good professional quality. A Turkish restaurant is used as an example. There you serve food that can be similar to what is also available in the street kitchen, based on the names of the dishes. Now it's announced a message, but isn't the council more impatient when we see how long these changes take? Is not the Council of State more impatient, is not the Council of State more concerned about progressing in this matter? Couldn't he go for any of our suggestions?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e585	As far as I know, this regulation for national chefs is completely identical to the regulation that applied when the Left sat in government. But to answer the main question: I can now say the cancellation message about labour immigration is coming Friday, April 18th - i.e. not coming, but next Friday. We will then invite the Stortinget to deal with it in such a way - and I understand that the Committee is prepared to do so - that the legislative proposals resulting from it can be implemented at the same time as the new foreign law. Taking this into account in the Single European Act, the Stortinget will have the opportunity to discuss labour immigration in a broader context than in a foreign law, for example. also in an integration policy context, which is quite important. And so, if you agree on the need for amended regulations, regulations, etc., it can be implemented in full parallel with the way we now introduce new foreign law. So there is no delay in the government's arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e594	In connection with the government's work on preparing for a new foreign law, there were in particular two issues that were up, and which were said to be very positive about, not least by the government councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen and other members of the Workers' Party. An assessment was made of the application of the 24-year rule and the requirements for access, which would obviously be a much better tool to combat forced marriage. This is not least seen in Denmark. Now the Progress Party has put forward exactly the same proposals, but now there is a sudden breach of conventions, international agreements and I do not know what. Was the Council of State not, however, so concerned about combating coercion, or is it the SV who has put the foot down for the Government in this matter as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e601	This is correct for once: we have had a very comprehensive assessment of different measures against forced marriage. We've discussed maintenance requirements, we've discussed age limits, we've discussed access requirements, we've discussed information campaigns, we've discussed a much more active use of schools like the arena. We have had a broad discussion, and we have had a broad consultation, in which different alternatives were considered. Based on both the hearing and these discussions, the Government has concluded that, in sum, we believe that the best measures are the best. We do not agree with the Progress Party on what will work best. We believe more in the sum of the proposals we have made, which are about entertainment requirements, about minority counsellors in schools, about integration advisers in foreign stations, about cooperation with non-governmental organisations, and about information campaigns. I have full respect for the fact that the Progress Party believes something else, but we disagree.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e606	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e609	It's really quite symptomatic that when the Advance Party launches its alternative proposal, its complete foreign law as an alternative to what the Government put forward, it is made in the worst way, yes, I'll say almost demonized. A number of incorrect information has come to light in this debate and also in public space outside this Chamber, when allegations and accusations have been made against the proposal of the Progress Party for a new foreign law. I think that is regrettable, and I think it is a pity that the discussion cannot be conducted on the right basis. It may be his case that parts of the press have probably not read the entire position of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, but all the members of the Committee have done so, and I assume that the Council of State is also familiar with it. It is then known that the kind of accusations made about our proposal are totally unreasonable, yes completely false. The claim that we are violating human rights - the Council of State itself said it here in its statement - and that we are violating international conventions and agreements, and even the Convention of Refugees, we have been accused of breaking, is not correct. There is one point - one point - in our proposal for a law where we are breaking the EMK, perhaps, and it is our proposal for the fourth paragraph of Section 65, which is about protection against broadcast. There we have put in one reservation - one single reservation - where we say that protection from broadcast ‘applies to all forms of decisions under law, but not in cases where the king considers it to be contrary to particularly strong fundamental national interests’. That's the only point where we break -- possibly, she can -- EMK. And it's for the thoughtful situation, the thoughtful scenario, that the government on its side has not taken any reservations about in the law, that for example. Osama bin Laden would appear in Norway for some strange reason. Then we can't send him to the United States by the law that underlies here today, because there he can risk the death penalty. - It's an absurd rule. It is a matter of breaking what should be a major interest in Norway, in its will and eagerness to embrace all of the international rules. We have obvious obligations not only in relation to people and following international conventions, but also in relation to Norwegian fundamental interests. It's only at this point that we break - possibly - EMK, according to the Ministry of Labour's own investigation and inclusion, our own answers, as we had a legal review of our law. Everything that goes on quota refugees, everything that goes on people who come to Norway and seek asylum, everything that goes on family immigration, is well within Norway's obligations. It should not surprise anyone either, because very many of the things we propose in our law are the rules of law that have been implemented in other countries. But unfortunately, it is such that you feel a great need to misrepresent the policies of the Progress Party here as well. In the course of today's debate, SV at Kirsti Saxi has raised the issue of almost open borders in Norway - it is so important, because there are so many refugees out there, so many people who don't have it well. The Advance Party agrees that we can be generous to people who need protection. But as a nationally elected member of the national Parliament, not to take any kind of reservations in the interests of the nation, and to take care of the long-term interests of the nation, I find it almost impressive. We also have a responsibility here. If we get such a development in the future that the number of immigrants just increases and you can't integrate the people who are already here, and we are increasingly experiencing problems related to it, it's not a good development for this nation, and it's -- I'm sorry to say so -- this assembly's duty to carry out. It obviously doesn't make SV, and it obviously doesn't make any of the government parties. Bjørg Tørresdal from the Christian People's Party is very concerned with illegal immigrants. She calls them Paperless Immigrants, a strange concept, Paperless Immigrants. Immigrants without papers on legal residence in Norway are called illegal immigrants. She's very concerned about them -- they're kind of so vulnerable, poor and it's terrible. But these are people who deliberately violate Norwegian law, who are deliberately in Norway without legal requirement to stay here. These Christian People's Party will almost have an amnesty for, to care for their interests. It shows how boundless naïve the Christian People's Party is. And when the Christian People's Party goes so far in today's press that they compare the Progress Party's proposal for a new foreign law with the introduction of a new Jewish paragraph in Norway - yes, then you really set the standard for a new low. Not only are you insulting Jews, who have experienced the most terrible and tragic persecutions in Europe over the centuries, but you are committing a gross sin by trying to produce a proper and proper work on the part of the Progress Party in designing a law that will safeguard the interests we believe are important, in such a way that you are involved in desavuing it. I think that, with respect to reporting, is sad. Try again, like others, to present it as if the Progress Party has a deplorable mix of human rights, with international conventions, even with the UN Convention on Human Rights. We've never had that. We have never said anything about not respecting the human rights of the United Nations. But we have said that in the case of the European Convention on Human Rights, the EMC, like other countries, we must also be able to consider making reservations in some contexts in which we agree to enter into commitments that are obviously contrary to the interests of the nation. A number of countries have. The United Kingdom has done so, a number of countries in Europe have done so, while Norway on every occasion when we get new conventions, new obligations, new treaties we have to deal with, accept everything with open arms, and show far too little sense in this way. That's all we've said, but it's once again presented as if it's the Progress Party that's so terrible and violates human rights, etc. But it's not true and it's not true. Then to Trine Skei Grande from the left. The left has a fundamental problem, for the left has no restrictions on how many people they will receive in Norway. Of course, this opening for embassies that Left outlines and adds, girlfriend visas, etc. will lead to a large increase in immigration into Norway. But here, the Left is totally weak and is not willing to take the consequences of having a coherent and sensible immigration policy. This is where the Progress Party stands alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e629	Norway has a long tradition of promoting international human rights and international laws. We're proud of that. With our own experience of war and occupation in memory, we should show great understanding of people as refugees from war and persecution. Norway has incorporated the European Human Rights Act, the United Nations Convention on Economic and Social Rights, the United Nations Convention on Civil and Political Rights and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. These conventions have been given priority over other Norwegian laws. In addition, Norway, as is known, has ratified the United Nations Convention on Refugees. We, who make up the majority of the population, will pursue a comprehensive immigration and refugee policy anchored in Norway's international commitments. In the new Foreign Affairs Act, human rights have just become even more visible, and the UN's own body for refugees, the UNHCR, has been given a stronger role. Anyone who is protected against return due to international conventions will be given refugee status in the law that we adopt today. This is an important strengthening of human rights and a clarification of who is obliged by Norway to stay. This is also consistent with how the UNHCR wants Member States to design the law. I am particularly pleased that the new law strengthens children's rights under the Children's Convention. In several areas, there are clear indications that the best interests of children need to be taken into account. With Norway’s unique economic situation, it is important that we deal in several ways with wars and humanitarian disasters, which most often affect people and rural areas who are already struggling with poor economy and development. Neighbouring countries usually take a large part of the burden. In order to show solidarity and at the same time to stabilise the situation in the conflict area, Norway, in addition to assistance, also needs to be involved and relieved by receiving refugees. I would therefore like to point out that the red-green government has increased the number of quota refugees. There goes a red thread--call it a red-green thread--through the whole policy of our government. It is about increasing assistance, strengthening human rights and active participation in the relief of conflict and crisis-affected areas. It is a good Norwegian tradition to extend solidarity far beyond the borders of Norway. Many Norwegian personalities, not least Fridtjof Nansen, have been important contributors through attitudes and actions and have given Norway a humanitarian position on which we need to build. That's why there's something extremely unorthodox, as I see it, over the extreme political line that the Progress Party represents, so the Progress Party is obviously poorly integrated into Norwegian tradition. ‘Norway shall be a port of refuge’, said Bent Höie from the Right. I agree with Bent Höie. But it won't be easy for the Right on Right ports in the same port service as the Advance Party. The Progress Party representative Amundsen would not answer my question as to whether it is okay to be overrun by the Right, who is issuing guarantees against the precisely progress party policy - a policy that is not exactly the same at lunchtime as it was at lunchtime. If all PR is good PR, maybe the Progress Party had a good day yesterday, but for the many who are concerned with Norwegian humanism, it was more of a horror day. The next day, that is, today, the Party of Advancement appears to be almost uninhibited. I struggle to get the very great compassion, and I also think the Advance Party today is struggling to get girlfriend visas into a government along with, among other things. Right. Actually, I have come to believe that constructive dialogue with those parties that share the main direction of the government parties in immigration policy is more appropriate than spending much more time on the party that chooses to stand on the outside side. It's a very important law we adopt today, and let me conclude by saying it this way: in good Norwegian humanistic tradition, we can see the lines from Nansen to-- and I'm asking for attention from the Council of State-- Hanssen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e646	Where do we really want to go with the new Norway? Integration is inclusion in an open and democratic society where there is room for ethnic and religious diversity and where this diversity is seen as a potential and not a burden. So the question is, how are we going to realize these clichés to become a good reality and define it to be Norwegian in 2008? Or maybe it's not that important to be Norwegian anymore? I think it is important to be humble about the fact that there are today several ways to be Norwegian, of course within the framework of Norwegian laws and regulations. As an Oslo citizen, I'm very privileged. One of the reasons I'm proud of the capital of the country is that I meet all the exciting impulses, expressions and faces that exist side by side. When id takes place, the closing party of the Muslim ramadan, it is difficult to get hold of taxis in Oslo. Had the minorities stopped at Ullevål Hospital, the city would have had a serious problem. The trip runs every five minutes on Christmas Eve itself, and in some schoolyards we have Jewish children, atheistic children, humane and Catholic children side by side with the director's daughter, along with the worker's son. Without the minorities, Oslo would actually stop and be a poor city. It's not an immigrant problem that we have 6-year-olds today who, when they start school, are convicted as school losers because they don't speak Norwegian. It's a school policy problem. It's not an immigrant problem that we have a lot of unemployed Tamils, Somalis, Iranians in Oslo. It's a poverty problem. I think that's how we have to start thinking, and include minority policy in a general Norwegian, good, holistic context. Diversity and migration are basically positive, but they also give us challenging challenges. The eternal dilemma has been that, in the fear of not being politically correct in the debate on immigration, many up-and-coming and sensible people in media environments, in political environments and in trade unions have shown great goodwill, but little interest. We have tacitly accepted that the fundamental human rights of women and children have unfortunately been violated. Forced marriage, circumcision, children disappearing from schools, honorary slums and overcrowded crisis centers with minority women - the stories are many. The fate is too tragic, and it's too many times we've heard of them. We cannot legitimize such evil cultures with cultures or religions. It must be put down hard, with uncompromising measures and in a strong way. I get quite optimistic when I see how this government is actively working on these challenges. Concrete and clear action plans against violence in close relationships, the action plan against forced marriage and the fight against circumcision are some examples. You've done a lot of work. They want their own minority counsellors at schools, better skills and stronger action at foreign stations. There is a need for safe housing for refugees and, last but not least, there is a need to increase the maintenance requirement to ensure that young people become economically and socially independent - self-employed people to be better able to make their own choices. This is impressive. We still have a long way to go, but we're very, very well going on. I am pleased that this law on foreigners is now being dealt with in this room. We've used a lot of power and energy to figure this out, among all the games on the Stortinget. This is very good and a step in the right direction for an inclusive Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e659	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e663	It was like a fungus from the past when I read the VG on Monday, April 7. The Progress Party once again demonstrated its true face in immigration policy by proposing to tighten up so strongly that no one will escape within the borders of Norway. At all, raising 100 people to Norway seems more like thinking about a number. They might have nuanced it a little bit today, considering 101. It is really not possible to adopt a policy that violates human rights and almost all international asylum and refugee agreements Norway has signed. There are marine exceptions, and there are people from EEA countries and people from countries like the United States, Canada, Japan and Australia. People from other countries than these are not welcome to Norway, according to the Progress Party. According to the same article, there is no willingness to accept people who are poor in resources. Here it's about people who can't read or write, so-called illiterates. This is a human vision that is under every criticism. I am happy The Progress Party is the only party on the Stortinget that has this vision. Norway has a duty, together with other nations, to accept people in need, even if they cannot read or write. I am of the opinion that the Progress Party in its draft law is very general and largely intersects all over one comb. You can't simply claim that some groups are criminals, even though a few in the groups are criminals. It's not like if a Northman commits a criminal act in, for example. Russia, so the Russian authorities say that now no northern people come to Russia, because everyone is a criminal. The Progress Party is pursuing a policy in which a fisherman fishes in mud-seat water. I don't quite understand what the party will achieve with such a policy, but it's clear that the Progress Party again shows its true face. It's kind of good to know where they stand in view of human vision. We probably knew from before that they were there, but at least they're removing any doubt now. It is good to see that the Right takes up objections in this matter. It's more strange that the Right at all does not see any problems in cooperating with the Party in any government in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e676	Think of Norway's fastest growing religion as having a view of values that is in stark contrast to our own established values. Think of the countries where this religion is leading, had practiced a system of government based on God-given dogmas, absolutes, and sacred laws. Imagine if they had sworn to a vision where women should cover themselves in order not to tempt the man. Imagine that this religion could only exceptionally marry out of love and that coercive measures were widespread. Think if the religious practice in these countries had meant that the women could not be separated without the consent of a religiously learned man, while the man could be separated from his wife only by expressing the wish for divorce three times. Think about the regime in these countries had meant that the woman's testimony in court was only worth half of the man's, and that the woman inherited only a quarter of the man's. Think of the leadership of this religion in the countries that led it, it was denied that there were homosexuals, and that if they were to show up anyway, such a lay qualifies for the death penalty. Think of it in this religion as risking the death penalty for converting to another religion. Imagine whether the basis of this religion was such that freedom of expression and printing would take place only if it did not offend an assumed prophet. Think of it in the countries of this religion, there were religious courts of their own, and that punishments were measured that involved stoning, hanging and cutting hands and feet. Think of this religion as having a holy city where all those who belong to another faith were denied access. Consider whether the inhabitants of these countries were indoctrinated in the texts of religion from the four-five years old, and that many wanted to wage sacred war against those who do not believe, or those who belong to another religion. Think of the religious leaders in these countries as thinking that the US fight against terrorism is actually a crusade against their religion. Think of the leading followers of this religion as thinking that Israel should be removed from the map, and that the Jews are closely related to monkeys and pigs. Imagine if millions of followers of this religion had thought that it was right to wage sacred war against everyone else who doesn't believe in exactly their god. Think of millions of practitioners of such a religion as thinking that the liberal and humanistic values of the West lead to decay and improper conduct of life. Think if the countries joining this religion would not recognise the human rights of the UN and that none of the countries would ratify that convention. Think of the political majority in this room as thinking that the emergence of a religion with such attitudes and values creates diversity and the basis for integration and dialogue. And think of the large number of people today adopting a law that provides the basis for a greater proportion of Norway's population to belong to such a religion. No, so merciful, inclusive and at the same time culturally self-destructive we are not. And if it turns out that we are, at least it's not because of a lack of warnings.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e720	After the last post, it is close to quoting a easily rewritten Sigbjørn Obstfelder in the poem "I see": I see, I see - I think I have ended up on the wrong globe. In the second year, 100000 applications for visas are granted to Norway. The vast majority of them, 98 pst., are issued by our foreign stations. 90 pst. visa applications are granted. Nevertheless, there may be reason to dedicate those who do not pass the loop, some attention--not because I think there is something wrong with the law itself, but because I myself have learned that today's visa practices can be both long-term and difficult. Long treatment duration may in reality act as a rejection of initially curative applications. I have experienced this myself in a close family, because my daughter-in-law is from Colombia, and because her father must have applied for a tourist visa before my daughter-in-law knew that she was pregnant, if he should have been in Norway in time before his daughter gave birth to his first grandchild. It is good that the Ministry has taken this into account, so that the processing time can now be reduced, and that the visa institution can be managed as intended. I have also never understood what the UDI in Oslo can investigate from here that our embassy in Bogota cannot get better track. Knowing that the Visa Institute is an instrument for regulated immigration and control of who gets access to the kingdom, we must not be careful that the regime becomes an obstacle to people who have absolutely legitimate reasons to visit the country. Or to put it another way: Nordics travel more than ever and are becoming more and more international in their choice of life's companion. I am quite clear that we are going to fight coercion and pro forma marriage, and I therefore agree that visa applicants who intend to marry and settle in Norway will apply for a residence permit before a right of entry is granted, and that conditions should be imposed for this. However, there is reason to ask questions about some of the requirements, such as: the financial guarantees. I am therefore pleased that the Ministry has now indicated that it will look into these requirements in the preparation of a new foreign regulation. I also point out that the engagement visa scheme, which provides a stay of up to six months, is now being continued and included in the law. This is a good system that allows nationals of countries subject to visas to try out here in the country, before they may apply for a stay on a more permanent basis. Such right of residence also gives the right to take up work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e733	I am particularly pleased that the new foreign law, which we are now dealing with, has so much focus on children and children's rights, and not least refers to the fact that we have incorporated the Children's Convention into Norwegian law. I want to represent the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, and also as rapporteur for Ot.prp. No 28, which deals with lone minor asylum seekers, focus on them. Lone minor asylum seekers are children and young people who have come to the country without parents or others with parental responsibility. They are a group of children with different backgrounds and life experience. Many have experienced poverty, distress, assault, war and persecution. Many of them have been living in an unsustainable care situation for several years. However, some come from resource-intensive families and have lived under a more satisfactory care situation. But regardless of their background, they are in a vulnerable situation in which they experience grief and sleep as a result of having left their family. They need additional protection, care, security and close follow-up pending treatment of the asylum case and subsequent residence or return to their country of origin. In the last period, on behalf of SV, I suggested that single minor asylum seekers should be brought under the care of child protection from coming to Norway. It became the majority for it at the end of the period, and in the Soria Moria Declaration, the political platform for the Government, of 13 October 2005, it is called inter alia. that the Government wishes to ‘improve the conditions of lone minor asylum seekers coming to Norway and transferring their care responsibilities to the protection of children’. I am pleased that, in the context of the 2006 budgetary procedure, the Government agreed with the government parties at Stortinget that, from the autumn of 2007, child protection took over responsibility for the care of lone minor asylum seekers under the age of 15 in the phase until they settled in the municipality or returned. It has also now been established that responsibility for the group of lone minor asylum seekers over 15 years of age will be transferred to the protection of children by the foreign authorities and that the budget for 2008 will be set at 5 million. kr to start this important work. It was then assumed that responsibility for the group of lone minor asylum seekers over the age of 15 will be transferred to child protection as soon as practicable in 2009. There is SV very pleased with, and this will be a great improvement for these vulnerable children.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e742	I was actually going to make a post here on labour immigration, but I think I should just be very careful to say that I am very satisfied with the broad consensus that it is about the principles underlying labour immigration, and that the provisions of the proposed section 23, where pay and working conditions are required, have received such broad support. I'm very happy about that. Furthermore, I would also like to note that the opposition parties are far more reserved with the support when concrete measures are proposed to enforce the provisions we have in Norwegian legislation to stop social dumping. This has recently been seen in the debate on changes in the Public Service Act, the Labour Environment Act and the Law on Public Acquisitions. But what I would like to use is the line that the Progress Party is putting up with, and that comes to mind in this debate, when the representative Per-Willy Amundsen in the press and in the debate here today has made it clear that the Progress Party is in need of Norway's protection that will lead to whether we are willing to protect the persecuted in the world. We have about 38 million refugees in the world today, most of them in Africa and Asia. We have a moral obligation to set up for these and for the countries that house all these people. We do that through the aid policy, by accepting asylum seekers and refugees. The progress party's cut in the aid budgets is a safe replay, and I think we will see that in the next budget too. But in the debate on foreign law, we see that the party is coming up with a new concept that is going to weigh heavily in assessing whether we are going to accept refugees, which the Progress Party obviously does not think we should do. This new concept is called ‘integration policy considerations’, and the representative Amundsen is so honest that he elaborates on this in yesterday’s VG, where he says: ‘We want to avoid illiteracy and other low-resource groups that we see not being able to adapt to in Norway. ‘... Islamists – whatever it may be – are also not high on the course. We have to avoid them, too. It is not said, but it is obvious that the Progress Party believes these are refugees that others should take care of. The party of progress will not provide protection for illiterates and the need for resources when the UN asks us to do so. We're going to pick from among those we can make money on quickly. It seems to me that the representative of Amundsen's perfect transfer refugee is a well-adapted, Christian, highly educated Swedish. The UN Commissioner for Refugees does not have so many of these to live on. It is hardly a problem for the Progress Party. After all, they will reduce the number of refugees protected in Norway. Fortunately, they stand alone here today, but the big question is who wins with their refugee policy in a bourgeois government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e767	The refugee network is a cross-church network consisting of 20 church communities and church organizations, including the Norwegian Church, the Salvation Army and the Bymition. These organizations, in line with the Christian People's Party, have a great commitment to the rights of the paperless immigrants. The refugee network is concerned about the situation of paperless immigrants in Norway today and asks the Storting to improve the rights of paperless immigrants in the new Foreign Affairs Act. Unfortunately, there has been a lack of will from the Government. The new immigration law does not address the challenges associated with the growing number of paperless immigrants in Norway. This concerns both humanitarian challenges and better and fairer legalisation schemes for paperless immigrants who have stayed for a long time in Norway, especially children. Many undocumented people live under unworthy conditions and are exploited roughly, among other things. on the labour market and in the housing market. Many also struggle with illness, mental problems, loneliness and anxiety. Living in hiding without rights is an unworthy situation for the people involved, and for the Norwegian society as a whole. Today, people without papers are not entitled to health care in addition to emergency treatment. In practice, this means, for example: that pregnant women are not entitled to studies and that children are not entitled to visit health sisters. The refugee network asked the Stortinget to give paperless immigrants in Norway the right to basic health care in addition to emergency treatment. The Christian People's Party proposes this in proposal No. 18 in the setting. Unfortunately, only the Left supports us here. The majority, fortunately, stress that it is not illegal to provide humanitarian aid to the paperless. The Christian People's Party has been working to find a solution in which the undocumented who have been living in the country for many years could be given the right to re-assess their affairs where actually living time is given weight. Neither did there exist any will in the government parties - unfortunately. But at least the church organizations can count on the Christian People's Party in the continuation of the fight for the rights of the paperless immigrants in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e778	A few years ago, the Foreign Affairs Committee visited the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, UNODC, in Vienna. The organisation is now mostly engaged in increasing and uncontrolled trafficking in human beings in Europe. UNODC is perhaps best known for its advertising films -- short entries with strong scenes, forced prostitution and slave labor. The victims are threatened or lured to the hell they're in, or simply kidnapped. Some of these victims are in Norway. Yeah, right around the corner of the big city building, girls from post-Soviet areas and Africa work every night. I've been sitting with lawyers who have some of these girls who have jumped off, like clients. These are shocking reports. I have also spoken to the Crisis Centre Secretariat, which tells of all the traumas that come when Bulgarian or Ukrainian prostitutes finally feel safe for the backers and hallucinators. It is important that we continue today's provision on the possibility of a residence permit if there are strong human considerations. Persons exposed to trafficking are covered by this provision. I am pleased that their rights are strengthened in the new law and that they should be recognised as a special social group. That means they're entitled to refugee status. There is also a need for a so-called reflection period for victims of trafficking in human beings and temporary residence in order to testify against, for example: Halikker. Such a reflection period should perhaps be included in the law? Then I am so glad that the majority clearly states that gender-related persecution is now to provide the basis for recognition as a refugee after the Refugee Convention. I've been following the situation of women in Iran for many years and I think I know a lot about that country. Women and small girls sent out in forced prostitution have been raped or are lesbians, risking hundreds of whips. We also have examples of them being sentenced to death by stoning. Someone we've been able to prevent in the last minute. Sending women asylum seekers back to Iran only has to happen exceptionally. And I must say that I was strongly provoked by statements from the Foreigner's Department in the Newspaper Magazine that came out Easter night, statements such as: ‘Iran is a member of an international society and has shown in individual cases that they are concerned with the perception of justice by the outside world. ‘... This as a basis for refusal of asylum is not to be found in politics. That is why it is so important to also have a foreign attaché at our embassy in Tehran.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e796	First to the Center Party, which wondered why the Christian People's Party would propose a Finnish model. One must read the document and see that we suggest that the government look at Finland and think of a separate model. The point of the Finnish model is to address the problem and not just to allow everything to be business as usual, because there are still some people there who do not receive a decent treatment. So to the centre party again: when I mentioned the Darren case, it was because the centre party was on the field in the case, but they weren't on the field when we dealt with the law, when we could do something about it, when we could get the government to admit that we have to look at what kind of violation of the foreign law is about, and what that expulsion from the country we're talking about here has to say to the family, and evaluate these relationships against each other. The Center Party could have been there and helped people like the Darren family. So to the Progress Party: the Christian People's Party has chosen to call them paperless, just as the Salvation Army, the Church and many organizations have said about these people, which is a large group - and there are many different reasons why they are there. The United States has also chosen not to call them illegal immigrants, ‘illegal immigrants’. They call them 'unauthorised migrants', unauthorised immigrants. It's a little bit about giving these a human dignity and then treating them. I agree with the Advance Party that the Jews have been exposed to terrible things up through history. One of those things, a symbol of our history, is the Jewish paragraph, which said they didn't have access to the kingdom. It was sad. Similarly, it is sad that the Progress Party proposes that other nationalities should not have access to the empire. That was my reason for seeing the similarity between these issues. So to the Council of State: if this American I used in my example had his income from wealth, how would he get to live as an immigrant? Was my example so short-sighted? What is the Council's answer if a Norwegian single mother finds an American with income but has it from wealth? He can't be a normal immigrant at least. So my real question to the Council of State, which he did not answer, was, what is the reason why not leave the incomes of non-residents coming for family reunification to count when you decide on the application?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e809	When Stortinget decided to incorporate the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child in 2003, we also committed ourselves to strengthening the rights of children in the foreign field. The UN Children’s Committee already recommended in its comments to Norway in 1994 that Norway carry out ‘a comprehensive review of its policies in relation to children seeking asylum in the light of the principles and provisions of the Convention’. This was reiterated in its recommendation to Norway in 2005 by the Committee asking Norway to ensure that national legislation is and will be fully consistent with the Convention. There was also criticism in 2005 about the situation of children in reception, the expulsion of children, and the lack of a maritime voice in the children’s perspective. In the Soria Moria Declaration, today's government parties have said that we want to work towards better consistency between the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and Foreign Affairs. I think it is good to note today that we are now following up on what we have committed ourselves to internationally, including through decisions by the government parties in the past, by strengthening the rights of children in the Foreign Affairs Act. It is now included in the law to make a child-sensitive application of the refugee provision in the work on the application. This means that the child's own danger of returning to his home country - the danger of ending up as a child soldier, the danger of being forced into child prostitution, trafficking, etc. shall be assessed and taken into account in particular. These are very important changes to current legislation that were not made clear before. The new law requires that all aspects of the child’s situation be taken into account in the application process and that the child’s situation be assessed more clearly in the decisions. In addition, an explicit reference to the best interests of children has been given as a fundamental consideration in the assessment of the case and it has been established that there is a lower threshold for granting authorisation to children than to adults. In general, children are more vulnerable than adults and engage in other forms of association. In the 2005 report of the United Nations Children’s Committee, Norway was particularly critical of the treatment of lone minor asylum seekers in the reception of asylum. As the first European country, Norway has now decided to transfer responsibility for these children to child protection. Under 15 years of age, child protection has already taken responsibility for it, while for them over 15 years of age it will take place in 2009. The youngest children are now offered housing and care services in the form of stays at a care centre for minors. Through changes in the Foreign and Child Protection Act, the acquisition of lone minor asylum seekers, Norway will now have a law and an administration that will adequately monitor the rights of children in the foreign field in relation to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e824	What made me take the floor again was the intervention of the representative Amundsen, who says I am promoting false claims that the proposals of the Progress Party are contrary to international agreements and fundamental human rights. Of course I don't. I refer you to the letter I sent to the Group of the Progressive Alliance on 28 March this year, with a copy to the Committee. There I explain four points, among many, for example: The proposal of the Progress Party for Section 14, which is contrary to the Schengen Agreement, and the proposal of the Progress Party for Section 30, on exclusion from the right to recognition as a refugee, which is contrary to the Refugee Convention. I also refer to the proposal of Section 62 of the Progress Party, which does not mean that a decision on expulsion should not be disproportionate, contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights, and to what the representative Amundsen himself had to say, the proposal of Section 65 of the Progress Party, protection against expulsion, which is contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. So here we have one breach of the Schengen Agreement, one proposal contrary to the Refugee Convention and two proposals contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. In addition, there is a purpose clause in the law that states that, for the purposes of the law, a restrictive interpretation of general international law and international conventions should be used. I would point out that when the European Court of Human Rights deals with its cases, restrictive interpretation of the EMC is not invoked. So with such a policy, Norway would systematically come into a situation where it would be condemned for violations of the European Convention on Human Rights. It obviously doesn't worry the representative Amundsen, because according to his own post, once again, is among other things. The requirements of the European Convention on Human Rights for protection against the transmission of ‘an absurd provision’. It is clear that when one has such an analysis of international human rights conventions and characterises parts of them as absurd, it is not likely that a legislative proposal contrary to both the Schengen Agreement, the Refugee Convention and the European Convention on Human Rights is presented. That is why I am also so proud to live in a country where all the other political Norway rejects this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e832	The debtors have hailed from the Advance Party their proposal to the Foreign Law. The left-hand side owes us to break both with the UN, human rights and a series of international conventions, published without having read either the Law text of the Advance Party or the Inner Party. O. No 42 for 2007-2008. Since 2001, the Danish bourgeois government has implemented much of the Progress Party's immigration policy, and Denmark has not been convicted of violations of either human rights or international conventions. On the contrary, Fogh Rasmussen's government has been elected several times. The Progress Party advocates a restrictive immigration policy and will at the same time open up to grant exemptions for e.g.: persons from EEA countries, USA, Canada, Japan, Singapore, Australia and New Zealand. Already today, a differentiated policy towards different countries is being pursued when, for example, it is taking place. for visa destinations and the EEA rules. The Progress Party’s proposal for the Foreign Law is a continuation of this principle in line with established policies such as: The Netherlands. While other countries choose quota refugees with competence, Norway chooses quota refugees after whom one seemed most sorry. The Progress Party believes that Norway should learn from the United States and instead pick quota refugees by level of education and integration potential in the UNHCR refugee camps. However, the Party of Progress will remove the possibility of asylum on the basis of health conditions. Of course, the Norwegian healthcare system should be in an emergency situation, but it should not be such that disabled and sick people should have strong incentives to get to Norway on the wrong basis. There is an open connection between the country of origin and the ease with which immigrants integrate. The level of employment of Somalis, Iraqis and Afghans aged 15 to 74 is, according to the SSB, 31,7, 41,3 and 41,7 pst respectively, while the corresponding figures for immigrants from Chile, Sri Lanka and the Philippines are 68,1, 66,1 and 65 pst respectively. According to Professor of Social Economy Kjetil Storsletten, the contribution of immigrants to the Norwegian economy is negative when employment is below 60-70 pst. Immigrants from countries belonging to the Islamic cultural community are among the most difficult immigrants to integrate in Norway, as in Europe otherwise. This must have implications for Norwegian immigration policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e845	When it comes to the life situation of children, we adults must do everything in our power to safeguard the lives of children. I am therefore very pleased that the rights of children are strengthened in the new Foreign Affairs Act, among other things. by legislating the specific need for the protection of children. The law stresses that the humanitarian threshold for a residence permit should be lower for children than for adults. The Convention on the Rights of the Child covers all children living in Norway. Based on the ‘best’ principle, the Convention is derived from the idea that children are more vulnerable than adults and that children therefore need special protection and care. In addition, it is established that children have independent rights. I am pleased that the responsibility for caring for lone minor asylum seekers under the age of 15 was transferred to child protection in the autumn of 2007. I hope that the care of lone minor asylum seekers aged 15 to 18 can be transferred to child protection as soon as possible. The requirement that child protection should be able to take over this responsibility is that child protection should be provided with resources and competences. I will give tribute to the Committee for putting minor asylum seekers on the political agenda. Children have little influence on their life situation and are admitted that adults give them a safe life situation. The Child Protection Act may apply to both children and children, for example: seeking asylum, and to children who have been refused an application and who are leaving the country. Now we've got a foreign law that raises the weakest groups, and puts children and women in focus. This government is delivering! The Soria Moria Declaration states that there should be consistency between the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Foreign Affairs Administration. It also states that there should be a special focus on children’s rights and living conditions, and that the Government should improve the conditions for single asylum seekers and transfer responsibility to child protection. I am pleased that such a large majority in the Committee has joined this initiative, which is so central to the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e864	Bjørg Tørresdal from the Christian People's Party has had a touching commitment to illegal immigrants in today's debate. She believes that today's arrangements are not good enough, and wants the applicant to have a new interview where he is given the opportunity to talk about his case again. That arrangement already exists today. Non-residents with a refusal may at any time send a request for conversion based on new information. When the Christian People's Party was in government, they sent people on the street after rejection of the asylum application. It became a popular demand for a more humane way of treating people. Bjørg Tørresdal has today rallied over how terrible the maintenance requirement is, but the fact is that it was introduced under Erna Solberg, while the Christian People's Party put in government. Does this mean that Bjørg Tørresdal is never so ashamed of the Christian People's Party's last government participation? Does she see, considering that, after all, we can call boasting of the main features of the Red-Green Foreign Law, that it will be easier to cooperate with a red-green government, or any bourgeois government dominated by the Advance Party in the future? Per-Willy Amundsen showed Finland in his first post today, using low figures from there as an example of the Progress Party's policy. But the numbers aren't right. In Finland, they have three categories. They have a humanitarian residence permit, they have a residence permit for reasons of protection, and they have asylum. The number of persons receiving asylum plus protection was 153 in 2005. If we add the number of people who got a humanitarian residence, the total is 597. In 2006, 123 resided for either asylum or protection reasons - in a total of 618. In 2007, 564 received protection or asylum, while the sum included those who had a humanitarian residence is 792. I understand that the Progress Party has had to search with light and light to find land at the same level as they operate with. The fact that they have to trick with numbers shows that they are sadly alone about such a policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e873	I want to start with the absurdity of the Progress Party, that it would have been absurd not to hand Osama bin Laden over to the United States, to the death penalty. That means that the death penalty in the United States is much better than the death penalty in other countries, that it's okay that someone gets shot in America, as long as they're not hanged in Iran. It's an absurdity. I'm for the human rights -- no matter who it is. And I'm against the death penalty, the sailors whether it's the Americans who's going through the death penalty. In addition, I have to inform Stokkan-Grande about one thing: getting a new treatment does not mean getting a new interview. That's two completely different things. Getting a new interview is getting the opportunity to resubmit the case. I want to illustrate this with a little story from Red Cross's search for time witnesses from Fallstad concentration camp: The woman from the Red Cross who goes from door to door with her list of prisoners from the Fallstad concentration camp, comes to a wife and a man who has been married for over 50 years. He's on her prisoner list. When she asks if he has been trapped in Fallstad, he sits down at the kitchen table and says, "Yes, I have been." The wife makes big eyes. They've been married for over 50 years, and he's never been able to tell her that he's been in concentration camp. What we have of terrible experiences is not something we easily tell about, don't sail to our closest. The fact that all asylum seekers are able to tell everything the first time they have to submit the papers is a belief in the system that I don't have. Anyone trying to make this look simple, trying to make all asylum seekers equal, and trying to make it simple, good questions, is wrong. This is complex. These are individuals -- they're very different. Suffering if any of them actually haven't told their whole story, I want it to be an appeal period, where in an interview they can be allowed to tell their story, sail if they've never been able to tell it to their closest. Maybe not all of this, maybe it's just a small fraction -- but it's a very important fraction that I'm willing to fight for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e888	I had initially not intended to take the floor again in the debate, but the contribution from the representative Tybring-Gjedde made me do it. I understand that the Progress Party in the debate has felt that some of their opinions have been drawn to the utmost, and that things have been suffocated. I think that the Progress Party may have to take responsibility for itself. But I fully agree with some of the claims made by the government parties that have been a collusion of different positions held by the Progress Party. When the representative Tybring-Gjedde goes up and keeps his post, one can of course only choose to sit still, listen to it and think that yes, yes, it was - and do not object. But the kind of posts presented by the pulpit of the Storting cannot be undisputed: Imagine that in Norway we had a representative of the magnificence who partly used the word ‘liberalist’ in describing his policy, and who at the same time placed all those who belong to the same religion in one group! Think of one who calls himself a liberal, at the same time put similarities between all the individuals in this group and the individuals with the most extreme positions! Think about a representative who uses the word 'liberalistic' and at the same time puts similarities between everyone in an ethnic group with the same cultural background and those who are working clouds and criminals! Think of a party proposing to send individuals back to the death penalty! Imagine if a party proposes to block individuals into indefinitely and without judgment! Imagine if a party proposes to send individuals back to a country they do not come from and to which they do not want to be sent back! Imagine whether a party proposes that ethnicity should be decisive and should be able to result in a refusal to apply for humanitarian residence, even if someone else meets the criteria! Think about it as a representative who sometimes uses the word "liberalist" for himself, and at the same time use the fear of the unknown to get upset! Think of a representative of a party that defends freedom of expression, and at the same time is horribly offended when other parties take up his party's positions - and highlight what they actually mean!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e903	I want to join in what the representative Höie said. I would also like to agree with what the representative Skei Grande said about those who say that these matters are simple, are wrong. There is one of the most true things that has been said today. The issue is about all the positive aspects that result from people today having easier to move across borders, and all the benefits of it. But then it's also about all the negative and disastrous consequences of war, conflict and persecution, which unfortunately happens in many places in the world. And it's about taking co-responsibility for the consequences that some people have. National interests are at stake, but there are also international obligations. And it's clear that it's in the interest of a nation - at least SV thinks so - that we have a positive view of immigration. It's an advantage for the country. That as citizens of this country we want to move, work wherever we want, travel wherever we want, we take for granted. We even take it as a matter of course that we should be welcome everywhere. We think it's our human right. And it also has to reflect our own view of immigration -- that we sail see that this is a good thing for us. Then we can't have a vision that is such that when others want this good, it's basically almost a criminal act, as the Progress Party seems to think. What I think is important in order for integration to work optimally is that we have a positive starting point - we say: Welcome here! Then it is also easier in retrospect to be clear about the demands and obligations of living in Norwegian society. There, I think, we've been a little bit unclear on some things. It's probably not everyone - to put it like that - in the Norwegian population who's totally intodulging in what's legal and right in this country. So there's been a discussion about what's Norwegian, and I think that yes, part of what I see is Norwegian, it's just that we've been strong at following international obligations, precisely because we see that we're part of a world where war and persecution actually happen. It could hit us, it could hit others. We have a commitment to that. I feel that it is part of the really Norwegian that I am proud of, and that I believe we should continue. Then the representative Tybring-Ged had a description of a country that was quite terrible. Some of the description has truth in it. But then it becomes even more strange that the Progress Party believes that those who flee from these terrible conditions should be limited to the possibility of actually being allowed to stay. In addition, when they want to remove what is called ‘strong human concern’, I say that this must be a party that is without human concern, even in the field of refugee and asylum policy, which is actually about people fleeing from the extreme need, at the risk of their own lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e924	Bjørg Tørresdal has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e927	The Christian People's Party does not go against the requirement of dependance. We want the order of the day, we don't want the sharpening. And I want my example earlier in the debate to show that it is so frantic. I would like an answer from the Council of State: will it not be like this, as we said, that he will not be allowed to stay in Norway? I'm not so sure if it's a Christian People's Party that thinks in the short term, as the Council of State said. I would like to say that it is a cross of thought that the Progress Party is concerned with all those countries that have a strict, restrictive immigration policy, such as the United Kingdom. Spain, Italy and Finland. Just countries like this are the ones that have given paperless amnesties. The Progress Party has not commented on this. Finally, the Christian People's Party can work with the starting point at the center, and we can work with you on the right and on the left. But with the extreme right, we can't cooperate in government. Today's debate has clearly shown that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e938	When it comes to the end of this debate, I, as chairman of the Committee, would like to take the opportunity to thank the large majority of the Committee for its good and constructive cooperation. Then I see that the disagreement between us that has - let's say - the same main view becomes relatively debatable when you hear the Progress Party. Here it is that shock relieves shock - after the articles of the Progress Party. Here Per-Willy Amundsen has tried at best to erase a little of what happened yesterday -- with more or less luck. Then the representative Tybring-Gjede rises in the pulpit. I agree as much as it can be, in what Right Bent Höie said in this context. The husband of stigmatizing posts I've never heard from the Great Britain's pulpit--I haven't heard all the debates here, but I hope there's never been anything like it, and I hope we'll never hear anything like it. My specific question to the colleague of the Committee and the spokesperson of the Progressive Party for immigration, Per-Willy Amundsen - and I know that Per-Willy Amundsen has only 1 minute to answer, so it is a yes- or no-question - is this: Would Per-Willy Amundsen, as the political spokesman of the Progressive Party for immigration, could have held the post that Tybring-Gjedde held?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e945	I will take the opportunity to respond to some challenges I have received. First a few words to the representative Trine Skei Grande. No, these are not simple questions, I fully agree. But my starting point is - if we now use a concrete example - that we get two applicants with about the same background from Baghdad who are applying for asylum in Norway. So they both get a discount, which they both disagree with. Then one says that well, well, I respect Norway's laws, I wish I could be, but I have been refused and therefore have to cooperate with the IOM for a return. And then the other one says that yes, I see that there is a decision made, I disagree with that, and I don't intend to respect that, that's why I'm going underground. That the solution to these challenges is that one who respects Norwegian law and returns is the loser, while the other, who does not respect Norwegian law, goes underground and refuses to deal with legitimate decisions, should be the winner - no, this is not easy. But what I am absolutely convinced of is that at least that is not the solution to the difficult problem. In my opinion, nothing would have strengthened the problem to such an extent as the proposal of the Left and Christian People's Party. So for the maintenance requirement: the purpose of the maintenance requirement is that the person who wants to pick up a spouse from Norway, and who is to have the marriage as a residence basis, must have an independent economic foundation in life. It is important because the spouse who comes cannot automatically expect to be entertained by the country. But the important thing about coercion is that if you have to resist a pressure, it's often about breaking up with your family. The ability to resist pressure and possibly break up with the family will be so much greater if you have an independent economic foundation in life. If the big problem for the Christian People's Party in that way is that this helps against coercion, but it might hit an American millionaire who has a fortune of one million-- well, if it's the outcome of introducing a law paragraph that I'm convinced will help fight coercion -- I'm willing to live with the fact that this might be somewhat difficult for the American millionaire. There are others who worry me more than exactly that candidate group.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e956	Per-Willy Amundsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e960	The Progress Party had its alternative legislative proposal for regulatory review at the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion. There were some points made there, most of them of a technical nature. We actually targeted them in the internal review of the law. What's left, and as we stand by, is section 65, protection. In fact, there we believe that we need to have an opening for return in situations where we have strong fundamental national interests. To this challenge: As others have said in this room, of course, it's not that everyone who belongs to a religion is the same in all ways. But the Progress Party sees that we have a situation where many immigrants come to Norway and not necessarily share the values that this nation and our cultural community are thinking about. There is a long-term challenge in immigration and integration policies in Norway. We have to take that seriously. Unfortunately, I register today that this hall does not.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e967	Step Skei Grande has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e970	The Council of State has probably perceived the Left's proposal a little wrong. We've never suggested amnesty. It is not in our proposal. We may think there are some in the group that I told you about last time, that we can help them get the right to a new interview. We also believe that those who do not cooperate, and others who do not accept their application or do not have good reasons to stay in the country, should not have a stay in the country. It's wrong to assign different opinions to us than to those we have. To the Progress Party: I have to say that the Amundsen representative's opinions show that he has a different value base than what I have. I believe, however, that we can have Amundsen in the country. I think there should be room for people with different values in a society, different opinions and different religions. I actually think it's a force for a society. All major communities have built themselves up through the breakup of different cultures. The reason why the United States is the superpower it is is that it has been a melting pot for cultures. It has given the country power in the international community.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e977	In the letter I sent to the Group of the Progressive Alliance on 28 March 2008, it is very clear on page 2 that the wording that the Progress Party chooses not to use is that used in the Schengen Borders Regulation, which describes the framework for our freedom of action within the Schengen obligations. The Progress Party has disregarded what we are saying, and is presenting a legislative proposal contrary to the Schengen Agreement. As regards Section 30, the letter makes it very clear that exclusion on this basis would otherwise be contrary to the Refugee Convention. However, the Party chooses to submit the proposed legislative proposal. On page 4 of the letter on proportionality: ‘We draw attention to the fact that there is in any case an obligation to carry out a proportionality assessment under Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which has also been made into Norwegian law by the Law on Human Rights. [[EMK]] ‘... The progress party chooses to ignore it and presents a paragraph in conflict with the EMK. As the Progress Party itself has admitted, in other words, the provisions of the Law of the Progress Party § 65 second paragraph are contrary to our international obligations. This is clearly stated in my letter to the Group of the Progressive Alliance. Nevertheless, the Progress Party chooses to present a legislative proposal in which one paragraph is contrary to Schengen cooperation; one paragraph is contrary to the Refugee Convention; two paragraphs are contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. This is clearly stated in my letter to the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e993	Has the President heard the sound during this debate, the sound of nails that are turned into wood? For every post the bourgeois parties have held in this debate, there have gradually been more and more spikes in the coffin of the cooperative dream that I imagine is about to be buried on the bourgeois side. The Progress Party has delivered its alternative proposal, which receives total slaughter - a nail. Then they've been out in the media and sunk even lower and got even more total slaughter -- a nail. The right has said that they should be a guarantor against such measures - a nail. The Christian People's Party and the Left would prefer the law to be more liberal -- a nail. With as much commitment as the parties show, one must assume that they are serious. As serious as this question is, you have to assume that the foreign field is one of the first issues you make sure to clear up the negotiations. Does the Progress Party lose the negotiations? Does the Christian People's Party sell its soul? Is the Left serious when they say that it is out of date with cooperation for as long as the Advance Party is involved in dominating? Is right the guarantor they say they should be? Everyone in this room has probably heard about joiner Andersen. In this case, we see that the joiner Amundsen is the one who hits most nails in the box. And maybe he's doing such a good job that it won't be possible to get the cap back in a very long time. For safety's sake, Tybring-Gjedde's statements have been put on the lid.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e1004	Bent Höie has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e1007	I understand that the representative Stokkan-Grande could not hold back the joy of his eagerness to try to create the impression that the cooperation challenges facing the current government, if any, are so great that they are invincible. Well, then perhaps the representative Arild Stokkan-Grande has to think a little through why this bill is being discussed in April 2008 and not in April 2006, or in April 2007, which was the reason why this government took over. Due to the fact that the three current government parties have been arguing about this matter so that the busta fumes for almost three years, it has taken so long to bring the matter forward. The party that is now involved in presenting this - SV - is what is, in fact, the most opposed to the policy adopted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e1014	I feel the need to stress that as one of those who have really worked with the discussions in this government on the proposal for a new foreign law, I can assure the representative Bent Höie that none of the government parties have proposed that we should break the Schengen Agreement. None of the government parties have proposed that we break the Refugee Convention. None of the government parties have proposed that we should present a law in which we are opposed to the European Convention on Human Rights on two points. The representative, Höie, is probably facing far greater challenges in his government project than we have had in order to bring forward this proposal for foreign law.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e1021	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. One, two, three.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e1037	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there should be no change of line and that those who would have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e1044	I think that on behalf of the committee I cannot promise the same kind of debate that we have just put behind us, in this case, with the same temperature and with the exchange of views that has been. On the other hand, I think we should be able to stick to the matter we are debating. This issue concerns in many ways some changes to the Health Personnel Act and the Health Register Act. These are largely in line with the requirements for health professionals’ certificates, declarations, etc. as well as administrative responses and prohibition of the improper provision of health information. Most of these changes come as a direct follow-up to the so-called Graver report, which was issued on 16 May 2006. The proposition follows up several of the points and proposals made in this report, while several others have not been followed up. The background to the establishment at all of a working group to prepare this report relates to claims that health professionals had issued false statements to convictions that would release prison sentences or facilitate settlement. This may include, inter alia: refer to the conviction of a psychiatrist and a psychologist in Oslo District Court on 4 December 2007. There are only a few points on which there is no consensus in the Committee on the proposed amendments to these laws, or, to put it bluntly, the lack of change may be a more correct concept, since the disagreement is essentially that the minority considers that the proposition does not sufficiently meet the proposals recommended by the Graver Committee. In this respect, I would just like to refer to the remarks in the statement where the minority, consisting of the Advance Party and the Right, indicates that one will promote some of the proposals that have not been followed up by the Ministry, in order to ensure that the quality and safety of health professionals' certificates and declarations, and so on. the best possible care is taken. This is mainly the case, as stated in the above clause, §15 and 62a of the Health Personnel Act and §17 of the Administrative Act. I guess the other parties will argue for their own views in a much better way than I can, so from now on I'll try to focus on the rationale of some of the Progress Party's positions that deviate from the majority's position. In its report, the Graver Group has proposed the introduction of a new penalty provision in the Health Care Professional Act on withdrawal of the right to issue certificates, declarations, etc. This is proposed because one considers that the current sanctions against health professionals who produce certificates, declarations, etc. are not sufficient. The choice under today's provisions is the warning and revocation/suspension of the health care professional's authorisation or licence. The Progress Party agrees with the Graver selection at this point, as there is reason to fear that the lack of sanctions makes you either use the mildest form to be sure that you don't go too far, or that you don't let go of punishment because the other option has too much impact on health professionals. On this basis, the Progress Party promotes the proposal for a new § 62a of the Health Personnel Act. Finally, I would like to address the proposals on which the Progress Party stands alone or together with other parties. I assume that this will be a short debate, but looks forward to hearing the views of others and, as I said, the Committee broadly agrees on the main points.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e1064	The representative Nesvik has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e1067	I am not going to contribute to doing this evening so much longer. Of course, there are several good reasons for certificates, medical certificates, etc. which have been issued by health professionals should be of high quality. In concrete terms, however, the debate on false certificates became topical due to allegations that health professionals had issued false statements to convictions. The government’s proposal for a law on changes to the Health Personnel Act and the Health Register Act, which we are examining today, is a direct follow-up to the Graver Group’s report, in which several legislative proposals were made to ensure, for example, that: certificates shall be of high quality. It's good that the government has followed up the report of the Graver Committee. The changes adopted today could help to ensure the quality of health professionals’ certificates and declarations, and I agree with the Government that the response system to health professionals will be improved. In the bill, there is also a change in the Health Care Professional Act that explicitly prohibits healthcare professionals from obtaining patient information that is subject to confidentiality without justified need. As the Chairman of the Committee explained, the proposals bring together a broad majority of the Committee. It is expressed by the fact that the committee's recommendation is promoted by an overall committee, with the exception of the proposal to amend Section 56 and new Section 59a of the Health Code, which is promoted by all parties outside the Advance Party. There are two minority proposals, and I will briefly comment on them. The Progress Party and the Right promote a proposal to amend Section 17 of the Administrative Act. This is a proposal from the Graver Committee, which the Ministry has considered it appropriate not to include in the legislative proposal itself, and the majority of the Committee supports that assessment. The Administrative Act is a general law applicable to all administrative areas and it may be unfortunate to make such a legislative amendment detached from an assessment of the other provisions of the Administrative Act. Before any decision on amendments to the Administrative Act is taken, there should have been a thorough examination of the impact on the administration, not least in relation to such key provisions as the administrative obligation to investigate and provide information. The majority of the Committee also supports the Government's proposal to amend § 56 and new § 59, while the minority has instead proposed a new § 62a. It is a proposal on which the Progress Party stands alone. This proposal seems a little strange to me, because I perceive it so that the content of the proposal for a possible new section 62 a, which is a proposal for a very concrete sanction against health professionals by revoking the right to produce certificates, statements, etc., is captured in the Government's proposal, and that the Government's proposal also provides a wider range of sanctions. The majority therefore assume that there is a less need for a special provision in the form of a new section 62(a), as the situations in which such a proposal is intended to encroach on are covered by the proposed section 59 of the proposal, as well as the possibility of imposing restrictions other than the loss of the attestation right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e1086	The left agrees with the amendments proposed by both the Health and Health Register Act. Clear legal prohibitions are now being imposed on the acquisition of mandatory patient information and other health information, without giving reason to the patient’s health care. A little popular to say, it's snooping in patient journals that you want to live. The left also agrees with the amendments to the Health Care Act § 15 on requirements for certificates and medical certificates. In good Norwegian: We want to live those who write false, those who cheat. In many ways, it's a little bit a shame that we can't trust the health care staff, who usually have such a tall star in the population, and that one has to use resources to avoid what I would call snooping and cheating. It is disappointing that the good spinal reflexes are not stronger for everyone. At the same time, of course, we must not label the entire profession when we talk about snooping and forgery. Of course, most of them are decent people. But as we know, there are weeds in all the meadows. Many of the things we are talking about are the ethical and ethical standards and the higher the focus on ethics in the education of health professionals and in the workplace. It would probably be positive to raise the ethical standard among them. Finally, I would like to say that it is important that both educational institutions, employers and employee organisations take this into account and cooperate in improving the ethical level of health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e1099	The changes that are likely to be adopted now involve: improving and nuanced the stricter requirements for health professionals’ certificates and the declared response system to health professionals, introducing a clear ban on so-called snoring in patient records, which has been mentioned in several reports; The ability of health professionals to issue certificates and declarations means that they are entrusted, directly or indirectly, with the task of caring for or safeguarding important social interests. As the issuer of certificates and declarations, the healthcare professional has two important roles: to ensure that the individual patient is given the rights that he or she is entitled to and to ensure that the person receiving the certificate is given the best possible basis for taking the right decisions. Therefore, in order to maintain confidence in health professionals and healthcare, it is essential that one can trust that certificates and declarations are professionally correct and that relevant information is not withheld. The proposed changes shall contribute to ensuring good quality and high legitimacy of health professionals’ certificates and declarations. When proposed changes to the response system are proposed in the Health Care Professional Act, there are changes that will give supervisory authorities more and better opportunities to respond to adverse health professionals. Today this threshold is very high. As you know, a new paragraph on access to the restriction of the authorisation of health professionals has also been proposed if the conditions for full withdrawal of the authorisation are not present. In my opinion, it is unfortunate that the supervisory authorities cannot intervene with concrete restrictions until the circumstances have become so severe that the conditions for revoking the authorisation have been met. The proposed provision will open up - under certain strict conditions - changes to this effect. As regards the question and the proposal for a ban on the acquisition of patient information subject to confidentiality without it being necessary to provide health care to patients, or to administer such assistance, my impression is that health care professionals mostly have a professional understanding that they should not acquire information they do not need in the service. Nevertheless, like a clear majority in the Committee, I believe that this should clearly be prohibited, both in the Health Care Act and in the Health Register Act. This ban will normally include patient records in both local, regional and central health records and will help to increase patient confidence in the confidentiality of information. In addition, the prohibition will contribute to better information security. The proposed changes to the Health Personnel Act and the Health Register Act will, as we see it, contribute to increased trust in health professionals and healthcare, and they will also contribute to improving information security.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e1124	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 370]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e1140	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no change of line, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Mr Sjøli, who is speaking on behalf of the rapporteur, Mr Inge Wohnning, who is a member of the Laging House.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e1149	The current legislative proposal has been promoted in order to implement an EU Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications adopted on 7 September 2005. The Directive regulates the recognition of professional qualifications and lays down when countries are obliged to recognise professional qualifications acquired in another Member State. One of the fundamental principles of the internal market is the right of EEA citizens to establish and provide their services throughout the EEA territory. It shall contribute to ensuring the free movement of the internal market by facilitating the recognition of professional qualifications in another EEA country by each professional. It shall ensure that persons qualified in another EEA country are not discriminated against in relation to their own nationals. In addition, the new legislation shall contribute to simplifying procedures for the treatment and recognition of professional qualifications in the EEA territory. At the same time, it is important to ensure the safety of Norwegian patients. The present legislative proposal balances these considerations in a good way and is endorsed by an overall committee on the vast majority of points. The general rule is that providers legally established in one Member State are free to travel to another Member State and pursue the profession there temporarily. Some exceptions and restrictions have been granted to allow Member States to protect their citizens from irresponsible activities. The Committee supports the proposal to lay down requirements for the temporary provision of services to be notified to the approval authorities of the host Member State and to provide the necessary documentation. The authorities may also require that the professional qualifications of each professional be checked before the services can be provided for the first time. The Committee considers it necessary for temporary staff to be subject to the rules of the host Member State for professions directly linked to professional qualifications and to the disciplinary provisions of the host Member State. It is important to ensure the safety of patients. The size decided upon in the treatment of Ot.prp. No 103 for 2005-2006 and Innst. O. No 46 for 2006-2007 that all private practitioners of approved healthcare were included in Norwegian Patient Indemnity Compensation. In the light of the legal interpretation set out in that proposal, the Committee takes the view that patients will receive compensation under the Norwegian Patient Injury Compensation Act, even when the injury has been caused by healthcare professionals providing temporary services in private activities in Norway. An overall committee considers this to be usefully clarified in the legal text of the Patient Injury Act itself, and therefore proposes an amendment to Law 15 June 2001 No. 53 on damages in case of injury to patients, etc. Paragraph 1, first paragraph, point (c) (c). The Committee supports the Ministry's proposal for a new provision in Section 65(a) of the Health Care Act, which gives the State Health Authority the opportunity to respond to matters that have occurred during stay in Norway. In this respect, the Committee has noted that reactions such as withdrawal, suspension or restrictions on the right to pursue the profession have only a temporary effect on his ability to pursue the profession in Norway. The Committee also agrees that the conditions of public health protection for the provision of health assistance shall apply to temporary providers. As a result of the amendments to the second paragraph of Section 53 of the Health Care Act and the content of the first paragraph of Section 57, critical circumstances in other EEA countries could allow Norwegian authorities to withdraw or refuse the exercise of the profession. Nevertheless, the members of the Committee of the Progressive Party, the Right and the Left consider that the authorities need to continue to develop control procedures and means of reaction to temporary service providers in order to prevent unresponsive professionals from moving from country to country, thereby endangering patient safety. These members consider it important to establish a register of all persons authorised within the professional groups covered by the proposal, which is accessible to the authorities of all countries covered by the legislation. In this way, effective control of any breach of laws or rules by the service provider could be exercised. Work is now under way in the EU and the EEA to clarify which information can be exchanged, and an overall committee asks the Ministry to assess new legislative changes in the light of this. An overall committee agrees that adequate language skills must be required for foreign health professionals to work in Norway. The majority of the Committee considers it most appropriate for employers to consider this on a case-by-case basis. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party consider that a compulsory Norwegian test is necessary. In any case, the rules contained in the legislative proposal should help patients to feel confident that they will receive proper treatment even when carried out by healthcare professionals from other EEA countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e1166	I would like to thank Mr Sjöli for a very good statement on the matter on the part of the Committee. She also took some of the views of the Advance Party, where we have been with other parties to have comments. The Progress Party clearly sees the need for more health professionals, and it is positive that temporary work in different countries should be facilitated for foreign health professionals, and that they should be allowed to move from country to country without necessarily having this country’s authorisation, licence or specialist approval. It is now the case that the authorisation system is, in itself, a security for the effective exercise of the profession in relation to the laws of the country. It is therefore important that the practitioners who come from other countries relate to Norwegian legislation and the Health Personnel Act. We know that many people are being withdrawn from their authorisation, including: due to drug abuse and sexual relations. It is also important that the Norwegian legislation applies to foreign health professionals. They will not be able to lose any authorisation, as they do not have Norwegian authorisation, but Norway can refuse to accept them on a later occasion. It is very important that a common international register be established, where adverse or illegal events can be recorded in some of the countries covered by the Directive. The members of the Progress Party consider that it is important to be informed of it to other countries, if one perpetrator commits events that result in reactions in a country in which they practise temporarily. So we went to Norwegian Patient Compensation. This was a question we also raised when the Committee visited the NPE a few weeks ago. NPE had not thought about this with the payment of the insurance premium. Still, private practitioners are not included in the NPE scheme, and some of the problems are well now how the premium is to be paid and what they are to pay. Nor had NPE thought of it in relation to foreign practitioners. The Committee has pointed out that foreign operators should pay a premium and that it should not go beyond the others in Norway who are part of the NPE scheme. They shall not be subject to any financial additional burden in respect of proceedings or compensation premiums arising out of events incurred by non-residents. With regard to the language, the Progress Party believes that mastering Norwegian language must be considered both in writing and orally as a matter of course for the provision of sound health care, both to patients, relatives and colleagues, as well as for compliance with record-keeping requirements in the Health Care Professional Act. Lack of understanding of languages can, as we see it, easily lead to irresponsible activities and risks to the safety of patients. Observations, assessments and action taken in care and treatment depend on a good understanding of the language. Feedback from healthcare nurses shows that language problems are the greatest and most frequent risk to patient safety for foreign workers. The State Health Authority points out that lack of language skills is a key issue in several supervisory cases, as was also mentioned in the meeting of the Health Supervision Committee last week. As can be seen from the case, many health care providers operate independently without an employer who can check the language requirements laid down. Lack of language skills is likely to be limited by the supervisory authorities. The Progress Party therefore believes that the employer cannot be the only person responsible for the good Norwegian knowledge of foreign practitioners. However, the Progress Party considers that good language skills are necessary in order to ensure good patient safety and to ensure that the practitioner is able to care properly for his/her profession. The authorities must then also take responsibility and ensure that these knowledge is present. The Progress Party considers that a mandatory written and oral language test will help to ensure that the health professionals who are to practise in Norway have the language skills necessary for the provision of healthcare in a safe manner, in addition to the responsibility of the employer to ensure that employees have the necessary qualifications in relation to the profession to which they are engaged. It also applies linguistically. I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e1189	The representative of Vigdis Giltun has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e1192	The rules on the recognition of professional qualifications acquired in another EEA country make it easier for health professionals to take up work in Norway. The professionally qualified person shall also be able to practise his/her profession in Norway under the same conditions as health professionals trained in Norway. Similarly, Norwegian health professionals should be able to take up work in other EEA countries. This ensures that healthcare professionals from other EEA countries are subject to the same professional health requirements as Norwegian health professionals. If they make mistakes, the supervisory authorities will be able to impose penalties in the same way as those applicable to other health professionals. Then, as you know, the Directive distinguishes between providing services over a shorter period of time and establishing itself as a professional in Norway. Those who wish to establish themselves in Norway must be authorised, licensed or granted special authorisation. Such authorisation is not necessary if healthcare professionals are only to provide services temporarily, but the Norwegian authorities must have prior notification of their stay. In this way, a healthcare professional may be registered and, if justified, also examine their qualifications further. Today, as is known only for the sector, i.e. doctors, nurses, dentists, midwives and pharmacists trained at the university, who can provide temporary services in Norway without authorisation, licence or special authorisation. With the new rules, health professionals from all 27 regulated professions could do the same. It follows from the case-law of the European Court of Justice and the EFTA Court that each case must be assessed on the basis of the duration, frequency and continuity of the performance. However, I intend to draw up guidelines - as far as possible within the framework of the Directive. This Directive does not allow the authorities to require standardised language tests as a condition for granting the authorisation, licence or special authorisation itself. This is justified by the fact that the need for Norwegian knowledge will vary between different positions and different tasks. Therefore, each applicant has to be assessed individually. In this context, language requirements must be laid down in the recruitment process and in the pursuit of the profession itself. The requirement that healthcare professionals must be able to communicate satisfactorily with patients is of course very important, and it is already provided for in Section 4 of the Health Care Act on the proper exercise of the profession. Each employer must ensure that health professionals employed have the necessary qualifications, including the fact that Norwegians are good. The human health professional shall be responsible only for the performance of the tasks for which they are qualified. During the business meetings of the year, it was clarified that health care establishments must ensure good practice in assessing language requirements. I believe that the obligations of employers and health professionals are clear, but the Ministry will also stress these obligations in the revised regulatory framework. The proposed legislative changes do not involve major changes in current practice. Nevertheless, I believe that they can help to make it easier to recruit health professionals to Norway. And being able to replace 15 directives by one is also not to be despised.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e1211	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox Berit Brørby resumed his office here. [[See page 371]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e1223	The odelsting goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e1231	A total of 24 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Per-Willy Amundsen, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposal No. 2-6, by Bent Höie on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 7 and 8, by Per-Willy Amundsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 9 and 10, by Bent Höie on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 11-20, from Bjørg Tørresdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 21 and 22, from Bjørg Tørresdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party the proposals No. 23 and 24, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left Proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement and the Right, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the foreign regulation includes a weekly reporting obligation regime in the event of expulsion. ‘... Proposal No. 3, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, says: ‘The decision asks the Government to ensure, under certain conditions, that family members are allowed to leave and leave the State while an application for a new residence permit is pending. ‘... Proposal No. 4, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, says: ‘The Government requests that foreign students who have completed higher education in Norway be entitled to a work permit for up to five years after completion of education in order to increase their competence. ‘... Proposal No. 5, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, says: ‘The budget asks the Government to review the rules for foreign students in the framework of a more flexible application procedure for a residence permit. ‘... Proposal No. 6, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, says: ‘The Government is asking for the establishment of appropriate arrangements for the return of visas by foreign stations, in order to establish a more liberal visa practice in countries with high emigration potential. ‘... Proposal No. 8, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a general ban on marriage between biological fats and cousins, with the possibility of a derogation for documented love marriages. ‘... Proposal No. 10, from the right, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the conditions for family reunification/reunification with the following starting point: The maintenance requirement is set at a real economic level in accordance with what one in other areas considers necessary for living.The applicant for family reunification/establishment shall not receive social or other municipal financial support one year before the application. The applicant for family reunification/establishment shall not receive State or municipal housing aid one year before the application. Where the person is permanently disabled, the maintenance requirement is lowered. 'Proposal No 12, from the Christian People's Party and the Left, says: 'The government asks the Government to investigate the possibilities for a foreigner who is in the kingdom in connection with the application for protection to change his application for a residence permit in accordance with Chapter 3 of the Act. [[work immigration]] Proposal No. 13, from the Christian People's Party and the Left, says: ‘The Government requests exemption from the maintenance requirement when the applicant is a child under the age of 18 who wants family reunification with parents or parents in Norway. ‘... Proposal No. 14, from the Christian People's Party and the Left, says: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the UNHCR guidelines on religious persecution are based on UDI and UNE in the treatment of cases where protection is claimed on the basis of religious persecution. ‘... Proposal No. 15, from the Christian People's Party and the Left, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the return of victims of trafficking in human beings is followed up in the country of origin by a Norwegian return attaché. ‘... Proposal No. 16, from the Christian People's Party and the Left, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to the Stortinget with proposals for the possibility of allowing irregular immigrants access to a new interview with the Foreign Administration. ‘... Proposal No. 17, from the Christian People's Party and the Left, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that practices to provide humanitarian residence for illegal immigrants are reviewed and assessed in the light of long-stay children in Norway. ‘... Proposal No. 18, from the Christian Party and the Left, saying, ‘The government asks that those who live in the country without legal status may be entitled to health care in addition to emergency care where lack of health care may have serious health consequences. ‘... Proposal No. 19 And from the Christian people, and from the left, saith, ‘The decision asks the Government to consider introducing a new type of jobseeker visa according to the model from Canada. ‘... Proposal No. 20, from the Christian Party and the Left, says: ‘The Government is asked to carry out a thorough evaluation of the role and form of work of the foreign student. ‘... Proposal No. 21, from the Christian people, saying, ‘The Government asks the Government to assess a solution in line with the Finnish Foreign Affairs Act model for unreturnable immigrants with an unexplained situation. ‘... Proposal No. 22, from the Christian people, saying, ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that all migrant workers and their families are offered a Norwegian course. ‘... Proposal No. 23, from the left, says: ‘The Council asks the Government to investigate the possibility of giving the embassies the power to grant asylum: [['ambassadeasyl ']] Proposal No. 24, from the left, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a proposal to introduce a girlfriend visa for non-residents with Norwegian girlfriends. ‘... These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure. The President will begin by addressing the vote on proposal No. 7 from the Progress Party. This is a proposal for a complete new foreign law. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e3118	The President will then vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e3153	There will then be a vote on proposal No. 9, from the right. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e3202	There will then be a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e5247	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e5260	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President has understood that the Progress Party will vote in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e5272	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e5314	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e5324	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e5332	During the debate, the representative Per-Willy Amundsen put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to initiate talks and negotiations with Iraq without delay in order to prepare for the deployment of the person known as Mulla Krekar. ‘... This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e5347	The President will alternately vote between the Committee's nomination and proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e5380	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 2, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e5398	The President will begin by including proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 2 of July 1999 64 on health professionals, Section 62a shall be replaced by the following: § 62a. [[Health Act]] Revocation of the right to draw up certificates, declarations, etc. If health-care professionals produce certificates, declarations, etc. contrary to this law or to the provisions adopted in compliance with it, the State Health Authority may withdraw, in whole or in part, the right to produce certificates, declarations, etc. When assessing withdrawals referred to in the first subparagraph, attention shall be paid to the seriousness of the infringement, including whether it has taken place over time, its scope, whether it is due to intentional or serious negligence on the part of health-care professionals, whether the infringement has led to incorrect judicial decisions, including the absence of legal status that they claim or have obtained unjustified legal status, and whether health-care professionals have previously received warning of similar circumstances. Withdrawals after the first subparagraph shall apply for a specified period of time. Withdrawals shall be limited, where circumstances so require, to certain types of certificates, declarations, etc. or in the case of certificates, declarations, etc. made for specific purposes or to specified recipients. Health professionals may waive the right to produce certificates, declarations, etc. by a written declaration to the Health Authority of the county. A waiver shall be binding during the period for which it is granted. Decision on withdrawal of the right to produce certificates, declarations, etc. is a simple decision under the Administrative Act. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e5426	The President will then bring up proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Act of 10 February 1967 on the procedure of administrative proceedings, the new third sentence of the third paragraph of Section 17 shall be replaced by the following: if the body obtains an assessment for use in the preparation of the case by special advisers or experts, the documents relating to the collection of such opinion shall be submitted to the parties for an opinion under the same conditions. [[Administrative Act]] ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e5570	Under you, the Progress Party has announced that they will vote against § 56 and new § 59a. - It's shaking on your head. The party of progress will not vote against it. The chairperson of the Committee says that the Progress Party shall not vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e5580	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e5590	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e5598	During the debate, Mr Giltun, on behalf of the Progress Party, put forward a proposal. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 2 of July 1999 64 on health professionals etc. [[Health Act]] Section 4 new second paragraph shall be replaced by the following: Health professionals engaged in the profession in Norway must master Norwegian language in writing and orally. § 4, second, third and fourth paragraphs become new third, fourth and fifth paragraphs. ‘... The President will begin by voting on this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e5758	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e5768	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-08-lower-2.ana.ud2624e5852	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? It hasn't happened. - The meeting's been cancelled.
