ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e67	The representative of Marit Nybakk, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The representative of Laila Davøy will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e75	I am delighted to promote a representative proposal from Dagrun Eriksen and myself to ensure the provision of rehabilitation and rehabilitation for cochlea-implanted children and adults.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e80	The representative, Mr Ingreigt S. Sørfonn, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e83	On behalf of the representatives of Line Henriette Holten Hemdal, May-Helen Molvær Grimstad and myself, I am delighted to make proposals for a holistic review of the waste policy and for improving the environment-friendly waste management framework in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e88	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e102	The 2007 national accounts are a comprehensive production. The material is definitely not readily available, and we can hardly expect that a message with such a content will be quite a lot of public reading. Until there is enough of the embassy both too detailed and too technical, and so it must be if one is to keep a professional standard. However, 2007 national accounts are to be understood, including for those of us who are not state-authorised auditors. The main estate is very joyful. The accounts show an economy in our country that is unusually healthy and unusually strong. There's every reason to enjoy. We are privileged in Norway, where we have a government that can produce a big message with such a positive content as we see here. And we are privileged because, as parliamentarians, we can discuss and endorse a matter of this kind with such important content without causing the great political waves. The 2007 state accounting presentation has some main components. One of them is the so-called bond account, which shows the totality of each entry in the government budget. It also contains a capital account, which brings out the state's assets, the state's debt and the state's equity. The message also gives an overview of Svalbard's accounts, and finally we find in the general message an overview of the state's guarantee liability, the warranties and booking powers and an overview of the axes owned by the state. As I said, we have a very good economy in our country. The total revenue in the national accounts for 2007 was about NOK 1,030 billion, while the cost was approximately $715 billion. The net receipts from the petroleum industry are approximately NOK 316 billion, distributed with NOK 337 billion in revenue and NOK 21 billion in expenditure. They collect the income except for the petroleum enterprises and loan transactions are about. NOK 293 billion, while the cost is DKK 1-2 billion. The accounts show an oil-corrected deficit of DKK 1.3 billion. With the recent ageing of the state budget for 2007, an oil-corrected deficit of DKK 2.8 billion was added, so the deficit has decreased over time. The revenue increased by SEK 5.5 billion, while the cost increased by approx. 4 billion kr compared to the estimates in the newly aged budget for 2007. The structural oil-corrected deficit for 2007 is now estimated at NOK 57.8 billion. This is approx. 13 billion kroner lower than the 2007 national budget estimate. When it comes to the collection of taxes and taxes income from mainland Norway, the state accounts for 2007 show that these revenues increase from approx. 562 billion in 2006 to approx. 633 billion dollars in 2007, an increase of approx. 12.5 pst. Greater growth in economic activity and employment than that of the founding in the autumn of 2006 have resulted in revenue from taxes and levies of 43 billion DKK higher than in the balance of the budget for this year. The high growth underlines that there has been a high level of activity in the Norwegian economy, and tax revenue rose by 1.5 billion kr compared to what had been used in the ageing budget. From the aged budget to the newly aged budget, the revenues from the petroleum industry went down by approx. 43.5 billion DKK, while the cost of petroleum industry increases by just under 2 billion DKK. The net cash flow from the petroleum business went down approximately. Forty-five billion, for 320 billion. Adjustments must be made in particular: is seen in the context of lower production than that envisaged in the aged budget, even if higher petroleum prices were drawn in the opposite direction. As I said, we are extremely lucky in Norway. The vast wealth of oil and gas has enabled us to have a completely different wealth development than the vast majority of other countries. But wealth also requires that we take responsibility. Values must be set well, so that future generations may also enjoy them. And then we have to make sure that the extra resources are phased into the economy at such a rate that the economy doesn't go overboard. It was to meet these challenges that the Storting decided to develop new economic policy guidelines at the beginning of this century. The guidelines imply that petroleum revenues are gradually phased into the economy around the clock with the expected real return of the State pension fund abroad. Budgetary policy should thus contribute to a stable development of the Norwegian economy. The intention behind these guidelines was to ensure a steady increase in the use of oil and gas revenues to a long-term, defensive level. At the same time, they open up the freedom of action provided by petroleum revenues to stimulate production and employment in periods of high and increasing unemployment. On the other hand, it would be necessary to maintain budgetary policy for periods of low capacity utilisation and pressures in the economy, as we see for example today. The use of petroleum revenues is measured with the structural oil-corrected budget deficit. When calculating the structural oil-corrected base, it is calculated among others. to ensure that some of the country's revenue and expenditure change with the economic cycle and with regard to changes in accounting ratios. This will make it easier to compare money use and pressures between different years. The Financial Committee shall take note of this message. I note that during the discussion in the Committee, the Progress Party has done a great deal of that in our rich country, as the committee members put it, we have many unsolved tasks. The lot owes others to lack the ability to manage Norwegian resources in a good way. The critic of the Progress Party in this setting is ramsalt, but not very well documented.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e128	Closely all the factors involved in world trade speak for Norway's benefit. We export oil and gas at record prices, we import consumer goods from developing countries at record low prices, and we have access to additional labour through the EEA Agreement. Norway is per year. Today, perhaps the country that serves the most in a liberal world trade, and we should all appear to be warm defenders of free trade. Common to the trends is that they are due to factors that Norwegian policy authorities have little influence on. With such a starting point, it is our responsibility to manage our unique opportunities for the benefit of each and the community. It is in good times the Government's obligations to facilitate bad times. Regrettably, the government is failing in the most central areas. For while the Norwegian economy is going down, the government chooses to sit still and hope that the good times will last. The government reduces the investment in research, downgrades the investment in alternative energy, maintains a record tax and tax level and completely ignores the need for investment in infrastructure such as road, rail, defence and police equipment and public construction. Instead, the government hopes that it will be measured by how much money it can save on a fund invested in our competitors. While the grass grows, the cow dies! During the three years of life of the Government, the argumentation related to the so-called ‘rule of action’ has varied. In 2006, the main argument to stick to the rule of action was that Norway would need the saved funds for future pensions. As the Pension Fund grew at record speed, the Government realized that the size of the fund would exceed the needs in view of future pensions. Not least, it became increasingly difficult to explain why exactly Norway needed thousands of billions of books, while other countries in the same demographic situation do not see a similar need. In 2007, the Crown argument was that it is not possible to spend more money on the State budget than exactly the amount proposed by the Government itself, because Norway lacked labour. According to the Government, more use of money would be immediately followed by demands for higher wages, so that the overall social economy would be negative. However, this claim also turned out to be crazy. The EEA Agreement ensured access to labour in the areas where the need was greatest, and the labour force from Eastern Europe increased the capacity of the Norwegian economy without disproportionate wage increases. In the debate on this year's government budget, there was once again a new angle to the arguments. The focus on the alleged labour shortage was reduced and replaced by the argument that any additional krone above the State budget would lead to unmanageable pressure in the Norwegian economy. And again, the Ministry of Finance's numerical crushers made extensive mistakes. Yes, I would say that the Ministry of Finance has never made more mistakes in the development of the Norwegian economy than in 2007. The budget balance showed that the tax revenue from mainland Norway was DKK 41.8 billion higher than the government had calculated in the 11 months earlier. If an average VAT/tax rate of 25 p.m. is calculated, a tax gain of NOK 41.8 billion represents an additional activity in the Norwegian economy of about SEK 41.8 billion. NOK 160 billion - DKK 160 billion! In other words, the Norwegian economy was able to grow an activity of NOK 160 billion without this leading to unexpected pressure on the krona, inflation or the deflagration of Norwegian jobs. For the sake of argument, let's accept the government's and the other parties' claim that the Norwegian economy is on the verge, and that further use of money over the state budget will lead to inflation, pressure on the krone price and the flagging out of jobs. If the Government actually believes that this is the case, it is completely impossible to understand that the Government maintains the appropriations for, for example, Innovation Norway. This is an organisation that is tasked with creating activity and pressure in the Norwegian economy. That's actually the organization's right to exist! The government boasts of appropriations in the current year to the activities of Innovation Norway, and when we know that each krona allocated to IN will create SEK 4 in increased activity in the Norwegian economy, the government's fiscal policy becomes completely out of coherence and logic. While the government itself chooses to increase the pressure in the Norwegian economy, it warns against proposals from the Progress Party to spend money on equipment and services purchased abroad - acquisitions that have almost no effect on Norwegian domestic economy. The truth is that the government has not taken into account that Norway’s financial framework conditions are completely different than they were just ten years ago. In the mid-1990s, while the balance of the state budget has been exhausted, the budget is now well-balanced with enormous surpluses. Despite this, the debates in this house are related to the state budget, almost as before. It is precisely in these fantastic times that the government should launch some visions for the future, create a world-class infrastructure that provides the basis for future growth, a learning environment that focuses on future demands, a income tax that enables workers to better safeguard their own well-being, and an investment climate that makes Norway attractive to foreign capitalists. Instead, the Government chooses to climb all the existing ones, while the budget debates remain introverted and marked by millimeters of justice. It is my claim that this government has allowed a unique opportunity to go away. Instead of spending the big money on the big things, as Jens Stoltenberg promised in the election campaign, the government has chosen to spend the big money on investing in the big companies in our competitor country. And that's now we pay the price. Public infrastructure is due, the national road network and the railway itself lack money for maintenance, the defence and the police are completely lacking necessary equipment, hospitals lack medical devices that can provide better treatment, and research institutes lack research tools. As public poverty grows, private wealth increases. The government's response to this challenge is to refuse private institutions to provide their services. In the world of socialism, it is obviously better that we all become clients in the public welfare system than that queues are reduced by receiving these services from private actors. This is going backwards into the future. The Progress Party wants a counter-approach to the state's huge revenues. For us, our giant income represents a fantastic space of action that gives us unique opportunities. Despite the government's expressed belief in the blessings of the rule of action, it is strange to note that the government in practical policy chooses to add the content of the rule to the unrecognizable. In fact, national accounts show that the government used 1.3 billion oil crowns in 2007, which amounted to about half a billion oil crowns. 0,1 pst. of the expected real return on the State pension fund - abroad. So we're going to write 2008, and once again, the same warnings come from the government. Once again, the wolf is called, wolf. After bombing in their financial calculations for two consecutive years, of which 2007 was the year with the greatest margin of error, the government demands to be believed when it claims that in 2008 forecasts will turn on - despite the fact that the money flows into stranglehold flows than ever before, recruitment companies that Manpower reports decreasing interest in skilled labour, and Norwegian companies reduce their order servers. During the hearing on the credit notification, the Governor stated that he did not believe in the Workers' Party's planned economy from the 1960s. Nor does it have the Progress Party. However, the sad thing is that the government parties have recreated the plan economy as an economic idea, and the tool used is the rule of action in all its forms, variants and deflectors. In St.meld. No 16, which is to be dealt with later today, the Government presents new updated estimates of the value development of State pension funds. The projections presented there are that the fund will almost double by the end of 2011, to around NOK 3 500 billion. Taking current oil prices into account, which most will be considered conservative, while taking into account the company's production estimates, the State pension fund will pass NOK 10000 billion by 2022. This is eight years earlier than last year's government estimate. If you use a slavish interpretation of the rule of action for such an amount, in 2022 it will amount to a total of NOK 400 billion. It should be clear to all that a budgetary policy that automatically links with a rule that invites in a few years such enormous fluctuations in the state budget is neither sensible nor sustainable. From a historical perspective, the rule of action gave us the opportunity to use 4 pst. of 100 billion dollars in 1998 and 4 pst. of NOK 10,000 billion in the year 2022. The Progress Party therefore believes that today’s rule of action is inappropriate as budgetary policy tools, and we fear that it will eventually turn an even higher number of Norwegians into passive recipients of social welfare schemes. Instead, the Progress Party wants a rule that distinguishes how the money from the State budget is spent. We want to separate investments and consumption, we want long-term budgeting, and we want expenditure growth on the consumption side to be linked to real growth in the Norwegian economy. In other words, we want to set the consumption by food. To achieve this, as a nation, we need to lay the foundation for the country's economies to survive after the oil and gas have been extracted. Such a goal can best be achieved by focusing on research and education combined with massive efforts to improve and develop national infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e191	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e194	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has dealt with many aspects of the Norwegian economy. Investment in the road sector is one of the concerns of the Progress Party, as far as many of us are concerned. But the Progress Party is particularly happy in asphalt work, I have noticed. They believe that there is still an unused capacity there. On the news yesterday there was a report from West Finland, the municipality of Passvik, where they had to asphaltize much shorter road sections because there has been a price increase of 25 pst. on asphaltification. Then I wonder: How high is the price increase on asphalting to be before the Progress Party realizes that we have reached the financial limit of capacity utilisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e201	There were many questions at once. The price of oil has increased, and it also has something to do with the asphalt price. But the Progress Party believes that road development can also be done by acquiring capacity from abroad, so that one can bet on massive road construction in that way. We also have regular contact with the industry, which says that there is no capacity available, and we want to make use of the available capacity. Of course, there's a limit to how much this can cost. With competition from abroad, prices will be reduced, but when the government itself chooses not to dampen the taxes on oil, which asphalt depends on, yes, well, then it makes rice at its own back. The party proposed to reduce fuel taxes to make the asphalt more reasonable, but the government has therefore chosen to ignore it. Then it also becomes more expensive to build a road, and it is the government's fault.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e210	I registered that the representative Tybring-Gjedde tried to use the Governor of the Central Bank Gedrem as a witness to the truth of his reasoning. He indicated that Gedrem had rejected the Workers' Party's planned economy from earlier times. I also participated in the hearing, I hired her, and I can't remember that it was Gedrem's birthright. But once the representative Tybring-Gjedde prints the head of the central bank to his chest, my question is the following: Will the representative Tybring-Gedde and the Progress Party listen to his advice when he is in several contexts, among other things. in the open hearing of the Financial Committee, has the Progress Party rejected its order for irresponsible use of the oil and gas revenues? Will the Progress Party and Tybring-Gjedde listen to that Council from the Governor of the Central Bank?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e217	The central bank manager stated in this hearing that he had no faith in the plan economy from earlier times. And as far as I remember -- even though it was before I was born and just after -- it was the Workers' Party that had a purely majority in this Chamber and led the plan economy that Gedrem pointed out. We listen to Gerdrem, but it is not said that Gedrem has all the knowledge of this. It also collects information in the market. We also collect information in the market. We also have education. We can also think for ourselves, and there are other actors who also have good advice for the Progress Party. We listen to everyone, and collectively we want to find a sensible policy. We believe that the capacity of the Norwegian economy can be expanded by having a different view of the economy. We don't think it's like Schjøtt-Pedersen has said before, that when you prefer water in a glass, it runs over, and you get inflation. We believe, unlike the Workers' Party, that the capacity of the Norwegian economy can be expanded in a sensible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e226	The representative Tybring-Gjedde has many qualities. After the post he's made, being sulphur-preaching one of them, I think, and we have full respect for that in some parties. But then there was this with the prognosis -- it was incredibly strong shooting at the department and others that form the basis for our actual decision-making, among other things. in the case of oil price. So my question is: can we now expect the Progress Party in its budgets to produce its own forecasts for the development of the Norwegian economy and budget out of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e233	The progress party is not going to create any own forecasts. My point is to show that there is no fasitant response. You can't look up in a book or use one model to figure out what development is going to be like in one year, two years, three years. Let's go back 20 years in time and then 20 years in time -- there are so huge fluctuations in the Norwegian economy and the world economy that it's impossible to predict. That's the security of the government parties we're attacking, that the exact amount of the crown that the Minister of Finance is presenting to the Stortinget is correct, that not one more penny will be spent on the state budget. We say, "Be a little bit more humble." Maybe you can't be so sure here, maybe there are other variants. Maybe there's other ways to think about it. Maybe you should think a little bit differently. That's what the Progress Party says. We're not going to provide our own forecasts. But we want to show that the forecasts of the Government are not correct. Year after year they don't vote. And in 2007 they did not vote at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e242	I'm going to give the representative right in one thing, and it's about the flexibility and capacity of the Norwegian economy. The walls of the Norwegian economy are probably more flexible than most economists have been able to guess in advance. I'm sure the representative has a point. We can see that from the state accounts we are dealing with today. But luckily, it's also that our economy works and is so healthy that it's what economists call automatically a stabilizer. When good times get even better, the tax system and collection work so that you absorb more purchasing power than you have budgeted for. It makes things go well anyway. I now see that much of the criticism from the Progress Party is going on that one will then say use up or remove much of the automatic stabilisation of the economy that makes things go so well, despite good times. Is that right? Does the Progress Party recognise that it is important that these automatic stabilisers function, that when time increases, tax revenue increases more than it is budgeted for?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e250	It is correctly observed. The Progress Party wants to invest in the future. We want to invest for future growth. It is clear that you can choose to do as the Government does, and as the other opposition parties do, that you save everything at any bad time. It would be more sensible to do as other oil exporting countries do, namely to invest in infrastructure to create a basis, to invest in research and education, so that students and students have the opportunity to contribute to future growth in companies with competitive conditions, both in terms of taxes, taxes and infrastructure. Instead, we do the opposite, and we all become interest-raters. We're developing to become interest-raters. More and more people are going on a disadvantage. More and more are receiving social security schemes. More and more people get social arrangements - in the sign of equality. The progress party doesn't think it's a healthy sign for the Norwegian economy. It is better to focus on getting jobs and contributing to growth in Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e255	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e258	In my view, fiscal accounting is a much more important document than it is the tradition of debating here in the Chamber. The national accounts are in a sequence, with the government budget, revised budget and now the accounts. The purpose is that we can use the accounts to discuss how it went, and we can use the accounts to discuss what we learn from what happened, so use the government accounts as the basis for the coming budgets. It's going to be done by sea, but the debate here in the hall is on that point. That discussion gives us the opportunity to discuss priorities of what we are going to spend the country's enormous resources on, how we are going to allocate resources to consumption and investment, how we are going to use resources in relation to future industrial development and distribution policies, whether for groups of people, geography or over generations. Through that discussion, we can also have the opportunity to discuss the necessary changes in the way our business operates, where we face a need for a severe reduction in our oil dependence. We are facing enormous changes, which will cost a great deal to transform Norwegian society into what is needed in the future. Every trader, every consumer is now experiencing the consequences of the increased energy prices and how to adjust again. I think few have really taken over the sum of the investments we're facing. What is particularly eye-catching in what has been presented today is that the distance between the aged budget and the accounts is alarmingly large. At the same time, a very central fact, which has to a great extent emerged in the public vocabulary of most people in the countryside and in the city, is that what was budgeted for with oil production from Norwegian soil is, when the accounts come, much lower than what it was budgeted for. The reduction in the production of Norwegian base oil is going down so fast that, in my opinion, the population has not taken over the consequences of the changes that have to be made here, because it is being tapped out to a level far greater than what our best authorities thought when you entered the year. It's probably an argument to think differently about business development, that we need to use the situation we're now in to prepare for another situation. From a historical perspective, the oil epoch in Norway is very short. It is also a great cross of thought if we in our economic debate understand the contexts of the economy well enough. Now that we have a reduction in the oil-corrected deficit of NOK 51,3 billion compared to the balance of the budget, more than the Progress Party must stop and think about whether we understand the functioning of the economy. I would appeal that we get a more thorough analysis of this situation, and that the Ministry of Finance, the Central Bureau of Statistics and the Bank of Norway also invite alternative economic environments, wherever they are in the world, to have alternative views and breaks to perhaps come further in their recognition that there is something we do not understand. Yes, we understand it so poorly that we have a distance relative to what we entered, which is especially large. When it comes to the reality of the Progress Party, I shouldn't say much about it. But when, on the part of this Chair of the Progressive Party, we mention words such as the planned economy of the Government or the Workers' Party, or expressions such as the equality society of socialism, I think we should correct such statements in relation to what is the actual development and the actual policy today. It's a rather different situation than using such an old-fashioned rhetoric. I think the Progress Party should invite the other parties more to discuss: What is the project? What do we want with Norway? What are the main challenges? This to figure out what the priorities are, what are the dilemmas, because we can't meet everything at the same time. You have to give priority to what's most central, and there are different opinions among the parties about what's most central. It's very real, but getting such a change of words will also inspire other environments to participate in the debate to a far greater extent than in the surrender policy and the old-fashioned rhetoric that I think too many are engaged in today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e279	That's what case rapporteur Reidar Sandal says, that what we are dealing with today is a sort of accountant report on how things went in 2007. It can tell us something about the Norwegian economy, but it can't tell us all about how social development really is. I find it hard to understand the reality description the Progress Party uses. So we're in the strongest growth over four years that we've had since the 1960s. It can't be said that while the grass grows, the cow dies. We are in a situation where 200,000 more have been employed since the government change, where most people have had a real wage development of 9 pst., how many have had a significant increase in their purchasing power. We can't describe it as if we were Bangladesh or another developing country with very big challenges. We've had an incredible economic period behind us, and it's not so strange that neither the Central Bureau of Statistics nor the Ministry of Finance nor anyone else who makes economic forecasts is expecting the probability that the growth that we need to return to the 1960s to find our husband is what we get in 2007 and 2008. Then there are questions about how we use the freedom of action that we have. It's a big challenge to choose wisely for our generation and for future generations, because the big income we have is largely because we're swapping a non-renewable resource in money and spending money on the state budget. Now it's true that some of those people who woke up in the morning today think that now we're not using oil money. 1,3 billion kroner is nothing - and what are they doing now on the Storting? Don't they spend our money? That's right if we stick to the accountant's report. But that's not how we make the state budget. That's because the incomes of a country, and not least in Norway, swing so enormously that if we were to take on incomes that fluctuated so enormously, we had to go to people in bad times and say: Look, we have to cut your salary by 50 pst, because now we can't afford to pay it. Or, we have to cut the security by 50 pst. So we've made some kind of average. I haven't jerked off to consult the Old Testament, but actually it's the same way of thinking that was behind the vocabulary in seven lean years and seven fat years. For seven fat years you had good crops. So you liked something, so you had something left over, and then you used it for seven lean years, and then you made a kind of average for how to deal with the grain and food situation. That's what we do when we make a structurally oil-corrected deficit. That means that in times of recession and unemployment where we know that the social security costs are going up enormously, where the tax revenue falls to the bottom, we later look as if we have more money than what we really have, because we're calculating it from an average. That means that when we have extraordinarily good times, we don't look at the accounts that year, but we're looking at how it would look on average. If they don't hit the waves right into the Norwegian economy. In line with the oil-corrected structural deficit, we spend SEK 57.8 billion of oil money in 2007. Well, there's money spent on education, health, transportation and a lot of the other important tasks that we're going to do. So many people talk like our savings or our pension fund is huge. But it's equal to one year's value creation - NOK 2,000 billion. That's about the same thing as Norwegian gross domestic product. If we were to try to change the picture that is possible for ordinary people like us to understand, it must be like having an annual salary in the bank's savings account. It equals that a minimum pensioner has NOK 135 000 in a savings account in the bank, or that an average wage earner with a full-year job, i.e. a full-year job, has NOK 420 000 in the bank. Of course, that's a lot of money. But it's not that you can live in sols and so forth forever. It is not that we have received information about future pension costs that allows us to now blow everything off and just take a while to get there. What's the situation is that we're a little bit luckier than other countries in terms of how we're going to manage to finance future pension costs, because the vast majority of Western countries are now facing an amazement of their population, which means that those who come after us are going to have completely different obligations compared to paying pensions. The history of state accounts for 2007 is the history of an exceptional economic situation and exceptional economic growth. Then it's about making us think about managing the values we have in the long term. To a very large extent, the Norwegian people have benefited from this through increased wages, significantly lower unemployment and significant public sector investment. Then it's important that we be able to keep it inwards, especially that we can keep unemployment as low as it is now, as long as possible, because it's going to be the seventh and last to be the most crucial thing for us to use society's resources properly, people, and whether people have income to pay the obligations they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e292	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e295	The Minister of Finance tried to minimize the size of the oil fund. Now, this year, with today's oil price, we're going to have an excess of over 500 billion dollars, which is far more than what you've budgeted for. With today's oil price, the oil fund is expected to reach NOK 22,000 billion in 2030. With today's population, it's going to be approx. Five million. kr per. resident in the country. Then my question is: if the oil price keeps going and the oil fund is as large as it is at present, does one come up at some point in time at a level where the State pension fund - abroad is large enough, or is there no limit to the size of this fund?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e302	I have some problems understanding what the Progress Party really means. So it's only a short time since representatives of the Progress Party asked me, why don't we sell our oil at the root? Now the price is per. $60, much higher than it's ever been. Now we have to make sure that we make sure that we make a long-term sale contract of $60 per. barrel. If we had done that, we would have lost a lot of money, because now the price is over $100 per. barrel. Now the Progress Party is fresh and fast and spends this money for what it's worth. It is money that the Progress Party really does not have, because they have sold this oil at a much lower price a long time ago. But that's it. In fact, we've left to future generations to decide how to start, if any, on the pension fund itself. We've decided to use 4 pst. and what the situation in the Norwegian economy permits, in terms of the economic cycle that exists, and in terms of the interest rate situation and the unemployment situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e315	First, I want to clarify something that is obvious misunderstandings with overlays. The Progress Party does not want to spend any pension money. First of all, there's a fraction of the annual profit that we use. We want to invest the money and cut the consumption of the state budget. We want to invest money in future growth, create the prerequisites for creating a business that is not dependent on oil and gas, which does not live on oil and gas, in Norway. So then you have to build the infrastructure -- build roads. It is necessary to have the lowest possible tax burden so that business can become competitive so that the generations of the future can enter into a business life and create values and not live as interest-raters of the Council of State Kristin Halvorsen's transfers in the form of all kinds of social arrangements. That's not how we create a nation. We're going to have something to live with. That is what the Progress Party wants. My specific question to the Council of State Kristin Halvorsen is: on what basis does she reject a foreign budget that creates minimal pressure on the Norwegian economy, once we have invested money abroad in dollars, can trade in dollars abroad and get equipment for research, get medical equipment, police equipment and defence equipment to Norway, without creating pressure in the Norwegian economy? What's the reason for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e324	The reason why we do not make our own foreign budget is that the total state budget has a mix of domestic and foreign budgets. We're taking that mixture into account when we calculate the impact of a government budget on Norwegian economy. By beginning to split the proportion of the Ministry of Knowledge budget spent on domestic and foreign countries, the proportion of the Ministry of Health and Welfare budget and the proportion of the Ministry of Defence budget spent on domestic and foreign countries, an assessment is made in relation to how the budget already works on the Norwegian economy. We don't think there's any particular point in trying to split it up. We have to spend the money we have, knowingly and sensibly, and we have to find what is the reasonable level. Then I have to say that it is right that the Progress Party is cutting budgets. They are cutting enormously in the areas of aid, agriculture and rail. Then they give a lot of tax relief, especially to those who have a lot of money from before, because they remove the taxes on wealth. Clearly, it is a political choice. But that's not our policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e333	Like the Minister of Finance, I'm worried about the progress party's attempt to look for opportunities to go, to say the least, 'bananas' with money. I am very sober about the use of money. But I will help to give the Advance Party right in one thing. It is that the Norwegian economy seems to tolerate more every year than the finance minister and I both said and believed a year ago. That's how it's been for years, and it tells us something about things in the economy that make it work a little bit differently. We hear it from economists who meet the finance committee. Stein Reegård says, for example, to the committee that you don't fully understand what's going on, so it's about sitting quietly in the boat. We have other economists who say something about the same thing. I have even had the approach to many of these questions on this speaker and tried to understand what is happening in our time. The world economy is getting worse, but the oil price is dropping. What's the relationship? It's hard to control in such a context. The representative Lundtegen said in his post, where there was a lot I agreed, much of the same. Will the Council of State help us in the national budget for the autumn to have a perhaps a little alternative review of what is actually happening, so that we can use this to learn in a sensible way, and not as an argument for going 'bananas' with money in this room?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e344	It is true that there are new issues or relationships that we need to look for a better understanding of. For the Norwegian economy, the capacity of the labour market is particularly important. Imagine if someone just a short time ago said that in three years it was possible to get 200,000 more people to work. Then you said, "No, that's not possible." That's almost half the population of Oslo, and then we count with babies and old ladies - everything. It has, however, been possible. This means that there is something relative to the way the labour market works, which is much more flexible now than in previous peak economic periods. It is about having a common labour market with the EU, with new EU countries. It's also about we being able to mobilize parts of the population that we haven't been able to mobilize before. It is too small for those who are in social security, but to a great extent so-called seniors, for one of the groups that have increased most in terms of participation in employment, that is, good adult women over the age of 54. I fully agree that we need to do everything we can to look for new explanations, in order to maneuver as precisely as possible. But it is also possible that this is a time of uncertainty, where not everything can be explained.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e356	First of all, I would say that I do not know the claim of Councillor Kristin Halvorsen that the Progress Party has taken the order to sell all the oil production on the root. I don't understand where she got it from. The question is: when the State Council Kristin Halvorsen and the Ministry of Finance assume that the oil price is on average 500 kroner per year. This year, why does it not take advantage of the chance to sell, for example. part of Petoro’s production at today’s market price, almost NOK 700 per year. Wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute. We have never received a good answer to that. I do not ask that question again, because I expect that I will not receive an answer to that today either. But what I want to answer was the question I asked: if the oil fund comes up to a level of 5 million. kr per. Does it build up in 2030, is the oil fund large enough, or is there no limit to the size of the oil fund?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e365	I don't know what kind of political career representative Hagesetter is going to add up, but I can say that in 2030 at least I intend to leave the place to someone else. That means that it's the ones that control it in 2030. We have a non-renewable natural resource. Now we have the technology to pump it up and switch it to money. Then we've said that for future generations, we shouldn't be on the real estate. We're going to pass it on, but we're going to use the real rate of return that we're assuming is 4 pst. So we're going to leave some choices to the next few generations. That means they get more freedom of action to figure out what makes sense in 2030. Perhaps then the representative is Hagesetter, but I think I can promise that I have given myself.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e372	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e375	It was so much interesting to hear that the Minister of Finance and the party leader in SV once again come with a date for her to leave. She's done that before, too, but this time I actually choose to believe in her, to say it like that. [[Laughter]] The reason why I signed up on the list of speakers was because the Minister of Finance had put it here. Of course, it is not that when the Progress Party participates in these debates, we try to describe Norway as a Bangladesh or a u-country where everything is completely wrong. Of course, there are many areas in Norway where we experience good welfare. Of course, many in Norway are doing well. Our starting point in such debates is just to point out that there are some challenges we can solve if we want to. Something I have raised many times in a debate with the Minister of Finance, is among other things. combating poverty, on which the Minister of Finance has focused. You've had a clear focus on it. It was said before the election that you should focus on it. It was said at the beginning of this magnification period, but that focus has gone away, as I experience it. I feel absolutely that that focus has gone away. It's just to look at the revised state budget we're going to deal with in this room next Friday. Of course, it is good that there is low unemployment in Norway, it is very good. But if we compare our unemployment with that in other European countries, we actually have a very large group of people who are completely out of work, who are neither unemployed nor unemployed, but who are unemployed, who are out of work and who do not come into the labour market. We have a large group of people who live on welfare schemes, and many of them want to be able to participate in the labour market. But also there the government does little. I see that when we have the oil wealth we actually have, we could use some of it for investment to solve the problems the finance minister herself has said she is concerned about. So you don't want to do that. It is not the case that the Progress Party intends to go ‘banana’ using oil money. If you had read the Progress Party's alternative state budget, you would see that the Progress Party is the party that cuts most of all parties in this room in public consumption. But we're making sure to turn some of today's operating costs into investments, which will create further growth in the long term. That must be the point, because we can't live by a fund alone. At least we have to provide the basis for increased growth in the years ahead. We are now discussing the actual state accounts, although this annual debate often becomes more than just a debate on state accounts. I still want to get into what was the starting point for this matter. The rapporteur said that in many ways it is an accountant report, and the Minister of Finance confirmed it. That accountant's report is very interesting when you look at the actual accounts in relation to how little oil money you actually spend. I heard the Minister of Finance say no, it's not like you're just using 1.3 pst, you're using a lot more, because we have other devices to deal with the state economy, the state budget, etc. Well, I find that when this audit report goes in the favor of the Government, it is very good to deal with it. When it obviously doesn't go in the favor of the Government, you make excuses. It is quite clear that three years in the Finance Minister's office has put their mark on the Minister of Finance when I hear her comments. Some of the problem with the debate is that when we had a big discussion here a year and a half ago about the state budget for which this is the state budget, it was quite clear what was going to be the exact use of money, and the Norwegian economy tolerated. It was the Minister of Finance, not a penny more, because then there was an increase in interest rates. We got that anyway. But then the interest rate would increase, and there was no way how bad it would be with the Norwegian economy. So we've had a huge amount of tax revenue, less oil money than we planned. Anyway, that's exactly what you ended up with, which is the big fasit. So we could have done all the things the Progress Party said, both in terms of tax relief and investment, and yet came down below what the Government itself offered. But it is irresponsible. I think it's going to be completely wrong in a debate to say that it's exactly on the crown the government adds, which is the fasit. Now the government has to decide. Either that's what you said when you put forward the state budget, which is the fascination with what you can use in the Norwegian economy, or it's the state accounts that have been presented, that you actually used, that's the fascite. The problem with the government is that when the budget doesn't match the accounting as predicted, or vice versa, you now use both parts as a argument that it was the exact use of money that made sense. Well, my claim is that the state accounts we're dealing with today just prove that the oil money usage that the government strongly argued for a year and a half ago was actually a bomb shot. That's what I think the government should take over. It's not possible to hit exactly the crown, even though I'm quite sure that when we get to the harvest, we'll again get a government budget from Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen where she's going to argue that that's exactly what the government adds, which is exactly the hairy limit of what you can use. The progress party will probably argue for the opposite. So we're going to have the phase a year later, but the government has to decide what to do with: is that the oil money you put in the budget, or is that what you get in the government accounts, which you think is a reasonable use of oil money?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e399	I guess we have a few more debates here today, so I'm not going to make an extreme contribution to extending this. I just want to give you a couple of strings. Of course, the representative of Leirstein is right in saying that it is not fixed sizes that we are discussing - it is quite obvious. But there's a sea of difference between the starting point of the bulk of the population and the starting point of the Party of Advancement. And unfortunately, the Progress Party's alternative state budget does not provide an answer. In its alternative state budget, the Progress Party is proposing to cut dramatically aid, cut dramatically in districts and agriculture, on railways and various other things and spend money on tax incentives - plus making a foreign budget and increasing the use of oil money. But that's just the starting point of the Advance Party, because once that state budget is dealt with in the Biggest, you just start adding to it for new good ends. The last thing I experienced in the room - I don't keep a count on the money used by the Advance Party, but I should probably start with that - was when you suggested to reduce the fuel and diesel taxes. Then you paid NOK 3.5 billion, which no one has seen on any account. The central statistical agency, which is asked to calculate the impact of the alternative state budget of the Progress Party, and all those who believe in a part of what is being said, only get a hold of the truth about economic policy. It's really pretty exciting to see what's really going to happen, if it's that the Progress Party and the Right will rule the country after the next election. I've been thinking that they won't, because we're going to win the election -- but it would have been a giant experiment. So to this, which is kind of a mantra, that investment is profitable, and that operation is unprofitable. So investment means that everything you can invest in, bridges, operas, construction or whatever it is -- good, fine monuments that show that we've used oil money -- is profitable for society. First of all, it's wrong; we're making a lot of unprofitable investments, because we're not just using the profitability concept as a starting point. Secondly, I strongly protest that what is important is the operation of the Norwegian welfare state is not profitable. Child protection is profitable - it's not investment, it's operation. Schools are profitable, helping children crack the reading code is profitable, because it ensures value creation in the future. So this is going to be a completely wrong way to see what's profitable and wise to spend money on, and what's not.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e410	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3697]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e426	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Work Party 30 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e435	The 2007 Credit Communication places particular emphasis on developments in the financial market and on the international financial turmoil. Competition in the banking market and developments in Norwegian borrowers are also widely discussed. The operations of the International Monetary Fund take a greater share of the latest credit notification than has been the case in most previous years. There is an illustration that the Government attaches great importance to this work. In accordance with tradition, the activities of Norway Bank and the Credit Authority are thoroughly presented. Where the assessments of financial stability are concerned, the majority of the financial committee has a very similar view. It is primarily the Progress Party that has dissenting views. In terms of monetary policy, we find the same pattern. I'll ignore the estimates of interest rate developments. The majority endorses the main features of the Government's policy, with some additional comments. On the other hand, the progress party resuming a specified item with the action rule. When it comes to the operation of the International Monetary Fund, another plurality, all parties apart from the Progress Party and the Right, says that one is satisfied that the activities of the IMF and the loan product are being critically reviewed. It is also pointed out from the majority that the objective must be to reduce the institution's activity to that of the IMF from Bretton Woods. The government is clearly responding positively to the work done to improve the loan programme. It is also pointed out that the IMF should both reduce and limit its role in low-income countries. The Progress Party, on the other hand, states that one does not share the ‘fear of the majority of the IMF’s demands on developing countries for liberalisation and privatisation’. In accordance with good tradition, the Financial Committee has also held this year an open hearing with the Governor of the Bank of Gedrem in connection with the processing of the credit notification. The central bank manager gave a broad analysis of the implementation of monetary policy. Then he answered a number of questions from the committee members. For the work of the Financial Committee, the presentation and assessments of the Governor are of great interest and value. Last year, the negative development in the US credit and banking market was a characteristic feature. The so-called subprime crisis is gradually spreading to Europe. As a result, a number of international banks have suffered major losses. There is no indication of the magnitude of the accumulated losses associated with the financial turmoil. The further sale of multi-stage financial instruments makes it very difficult to get an overview. Nevertheless, it is beyond doubt that many customers and bus drivers both in the United States and in Europe are hard pressed. In the last year, we have been fully aware that the financial market is international. We have learned that complex, structured, financial product is composed in such a way that the end investor has not known how much risk his investment has represented. This complexity has made it very difficult to monitor financial stability. I therefore believe that it is quite understandable that the financial turmoil has also led to an increase in lending rates from banks in our own country. In addition, we are fully aware of the loss of investment in financial products and securities. Several Norwegian municipalities and financial institutions have had profound experience in this area. Rightly, we have recorded some very unfortunate transactions for some actors on the financial market in Norway. However, the credit supervision concludes that there is no reason for concern for Norwegian banks. The 2007 annual results for Norwegian banks show that the loss pool has our small. Nevertheless, there is reason to fear that the banking crisis can lead to lower growth in many European countries and the United States. In turn, this could easily result in negative results for the Norwegian economy, especially by reducing Norway’s exports. For Norwegian households, debt growth has been strong in the last eight years. The credit message is proof of this. Growth has been driven by low interest rates, strong growth in housing prices and income growth. Studies show that there is a particularly high level of indebtedness between new entrants to the housing market. Borrowers under 35 years of age have an average indebtedness of 313 pst. This is 24 percentage points higher than in 2006. These observations are quite eye-catching. Characteristic features are increasing indebtedness growth, longer average maturity of loans and clearly greater expansion of free loans. In my view, borrowers are thus more likely to be at risk if there is an unexpected rise in interest rates or urban cracks. Last year, Norway's Bank's interest rate increased by 1.75 percentage points. It's still 5.25 pst. Many of our political opponents like to blame the interest rate increase on the current government. It's definitely a too simple image. In this context, I would like to refer to the monetary policy regulation, which was a broad deal when it was introduced in 2001. It's called: «The monetary policy shall aim at stability in the national and international value of the Norwegian krona, including contributing to stable expectations of exchange rate developments. At the same time, monetary policy shall support fiscal policy by contributing to the stabilisation of the development of production and employment.’ In addition, it is stated in the regulation that Norway Bank is responsible for the operational implementation of monetary policy. It is a fact that Norway Bank already reported a substantial increase in interest rates in 2005. Interest forecasts have been adjusted several times. The reason has been that the growth in the Norwegian economy has been unusually strong, capacity utilisation has been unusually high, and much indicates that the level of activity would last a long time. High growth in our trading partners has also drawn interest rate forecasts in the same direction. This theme was central to the open hearing of the Financial Committee with the Governor of the Bank on 22 May this year. He said, ‘Since 2003, growth in the Norwegian economy has been high, higher than expected. It shot speed both faster and more marked than in the upturns of the 1980s and 1990s. To be so far out in the rise, the growth was unusually high last year. The annual growth rate of GDP in the mainland economy was slightly above 4 pst. in the three years 2004 to 2004 inclusive 2006. Last year it came over 6 pst.’ We can therefore conclude that these are unusually good times in our country. I am very pleased with the good development that has been in the Norwegian economy in the last few years. On this basis, according to the monetary policy regulation, Norway’s Bank has increased its interest rate to a more normal level. For the government party, having the lowest interest rate is not a measure of economic policy. On the other hand, work for all, a sustainable development, a fairer distribution and strengthening of welfare arrangements are all central points for us. On the other hand, if we were to set up budgetary policy with a view to abnormally low interest rates, it would have to be cut sharply in many areas. This would be much worse for people than the fact that the interest rate, already reported under the previous government in 2005, has now risen to a more normal level. The reason for the interest rate increase is the strong growth in the Norwegian economy. We also know that the growth in employment has a record high. Never before have so many Norwegian women and men worked, and unemployment is very low. I am convinced that the very positive developments in the labour market and the high income growth, which the Minister of Finance also pointed out in his speech earlier today, have given many households greater economic armaments and a safer way of life than they have had for a long time - perhaps they have never had such good conditions. I do not underestimate the difficulties that some borrowers may have with the current interest rate level. It would be to show a little empathy. The interest rate on the Board of Directors of Norway Bank is now 5.5 pst. and very close to the top on which the bank has based its last monetary policy report. The forecast is that interest rates will decrease again in 2009 and 2010. This can make everyday life easier for many people who know the pressures of large debts and heavy interest costs. Nowadays, not only the interest rate charged by Norway Bank is the determining factor for which interest the borrowers have to pay in their own bank. Money market interest rates may rise faster than our own central bank adds. This could easily be the consequence of the tight credit market that has arisen because of the international financial turmoil that I pointed out earlier in my contribution. This challenge also points to Norway Bank in its Annual Report. Central analysts in the Norwegian financial industry underlined the same point as late yesterday. Norwegian banks do not significantly finance themselves in other countries. These financing costs have increased, and it has turned into money market interest rates here in the country. In any case, Norwegian banks have switched a good part of this to interest on loans to Norwegian households and to Norwegian companies. All of this happens even if the Norwegian banking system is profitable. I mention this point to illustrate that international relations have a lot to say about the costs incurred by Norwegian borrowers, both in the personal and corporate markets. I knew it before, but after reading the position from the Finance Committee, I was reminded of it again: the party of progress is heavy in the argument against the rule of action. Quite rightly, I am not overconfident that the debate on the credit message is the right venue to debate this topic, but part of the point of view of the Progress Party cannot be contradicted. In the committee setting, representatives from the Progress Party say: ‘One of the main weaknesses of the rule of action is that it does not relate to where, when or how oil revenues are used and that it does not distinguish between oil money used for tax relief, public real investment or public consumption.’ I have no illusion of getting the Committee members from the Progress Party to change their views on the rule of action, but I would like to remind you of the following points: The above rule determines how much oil money will be spent over time on the State budget. He thus provides guidance for the overall budget framework. The amount of oil and other revenue to be used will be determined by the Storting in the annual rounds of the budget. I recognize, of course, that it may be easy to be tempted to over-use the petroleum revenues. The costs can easily be moved to a distant future. For this very reason, we must have a framework for budgetary policy that forces us to make real priorities between different investment projects and other spending purposes, as the Minister of Finance pointed out quite correctly earlier today. All of this has to happen within frameworks that are collectively responsible. In this field, there is a fundamental distinction between the Advance Party on one side and the other parts of the Storing on the other. I mean, if a break with the view that the plurality in this room is based on in this question, look over the responsible economic line. The effect of such a policy would be clearly negative for people and countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e497	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e500	Private wealth is increasing. The distance between private wealth and public poverty is increasing. The government saves because the economy can't bear to spend more money. Does the representative Sandal think that the taxes must therefore be increased, as we have heard some red-green politicians argue for - in order to withdraw purchasing power? Or will the representative Sandal allow private solutions, so that people can spend their private growing wealth on other than cars, travel, building houses, etc., so that they can also meet some of their basic welfare needs with their own earned money?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e507	I thank the representative Tybring-Gjedde for giving me the opportunity to answer these standard questions from the Progress Party. When it applies to the level of taxation, the three government parties are certain that we will be at the current level of taxation in 2004. We're at that level, and we're at that level, and we're at that line in the magnification period that we're now in. But when we talk about taxes, I would like to stress that it is important for us to improve the tax system and create more justice. It could mean taking more from those who have the most to contribute, to create a better community in Norway. When it comes to the view of private solutions, it is the government party and the Labour Party's definitive view that we should have Community solutions and cork inspire or lay the basis for having private health and care solutions. It is not our political course, as the representative Tybring-Gjed very well knows.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e516	The reason why I take the floor is the representative Sandal's tribute to the rule of action, that he's one of the most glyphs found anywhere in Norway. We have pointed out that there are some weaknesses in the rule of action. One of the weaknesses is that the policy of action does not differentiate how a person uses the money. That's simply a point, because if you spend money on tax relief, it has a completely different effect on the economy than if you were, for example, the economy. spends money on red tape in the public sector. And if we spend money abroad -- buy things from abroad -- it has a different effect on the Norwegian economy than if we use the same money in Norway. Then my question to the leader of the financial committee: Does not the representative Sandal agree that there are different effects of money use, depending on how one spends the money?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e525	Now we have heard an example here in the main hall before today of the fact that the progress party representatives are not so oblivious to the use of quotations. We had an example of that right now from the Hageseter side. I haven't stated the deepest intellectual skill in the design of the cork rule of action or other, but I have said that it is an operating rule that we govern by, not Slavic, but in the spirit that he is to be guided by. To the question that Mr. Hageseter is asking, to distinguish between different uses of money, I just want to say that I do not accept the premise of the Hageseter reasoning and the Progress Party that spending the most possible money for investment, so far as is very favorable, but then is a very critical for means of operation. I refer to what the Minister of Finance said earlier today, as I thought was very revealing also to my mind: it is not investment to allow child protection and education, but it is useful, wise and right to the future to do so, even if it does not meet this progress party requirement to which it is also referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e534	First, a never so small comment that the red-greens have no faith in private actors in healthcare. I have to remind you that it is the red-green ones that now with Health South-East conducts a neckless tendering policy within the care of Russo, which means that we end our cooperation with non-governmental organisations that have been going on for a number of years. These are the red-green ones in practical politics. So Sandal was saying that there are some borrowers who get problems with over interest rates, and he had some assessments related to it. In its comments, the Christian People's Party has pointed out that perhaps some measures should be put in place to increase consumer protection against the aggressive marketers of consumer loans. They're the ones who take these loans, who get the biggest problems. Why don't the government parties join in?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e541	First of all, I would like to stress that when it comes to private solutions, I spoke about what was our main course. The representative of Syversen and I are some of the people who want to buy significant services in the health and care sector, including the health sector. from non-profits, and they do a good job. So let's not create a fight about it. When it comes to the question of strengthening consumer protection, as the Christian People's Party correctly comments, I thought it was both wise and relevant. A great deal has been done to strengthen consumer protection during this government period. I refer to both amended legislation and legislation in this field, and we will go on with this question to see if we can get an improvement - so far in the spirit of the Christian People's Party. But we need a little bit of counseling to be completely concrete about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e548	When I called the representative Sandal to pay tribute to the rule of action, it was a little more a perception of how I interpreted his real message than that I quoted him correctly. That's right, I didn't. The representative Sandal mentioned this with investment, and it is a point that it makes more sense to spend money on investment than on consumption. But that wasn't what was at the heart of my question. My question was: when a person spends money on tax and tax bills, which can also help to keep prices down, it has a different impact on the economy than if a person spends more money into the public sector, to increase bureaucracy, for example. in the county? That's what I'm asking. Does the representative, Sandal, agree that spending money on tax and tax payments gives a different effect, and when spending money on increased bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e556	I'm asking for respect for the fact that I can't go into the representative Hagesetter's premises, because we have a very different understanding of what the tax revenue of the state will be used for. I don't accept the assumption that a lot of permissions for the public sector are not a good place to place the money. We want a large public sector to create better welfare arrangements in this country. That's why we invest heavily in education, so we've made a historic effort when it comes to the development of kindergartens, and that's why we're looking for better arrangements for those who wear the most in society, and who have the least resources to live on. In that image, I'm not adding a negative sign to the public sector effort, as we've seen many examples before. I actually thought the Progress Party should end with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e563	An important reason for the strong cost growth we now have in many sectors, and for not solving important tasks, is the Government’s allergy to private solutions, and that the modernisation of the public sector has stopped. This was also underlined by the Governor of the Bank during the hearing of the Financial Committee, where he said: ‘Not much has happened in recent years, which can fuel productivity growth, I think, in the area of structural policy.’ He repeatedly stresses that there is a great deal of room for modernisation of the public sector. Sees the representative Sandal that the government's allergy to private solutions and the complete stop in the modernisation of the public sector are some of the explanation of the major problems we are now struggling with, with cost increases and that we cannot solve completely necessary tasks, including: in the care sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e575	I agree that we are facing a significant cost pressure in both the public and private sectors, but I disagree with the representative Sanner that the government party and government do not make an effort to improve the public sector. We're not in the goal, we're not far enough, but we have thoughts about it, and it's done to get on with it. It is necessary to improve the public sector, make it even more accessible to consumers and improve the quality of services. But once again, I don't want to draw a negative picture of the efforts of many of those who make a significant effort, for example. within the health and social sector. I'm afraid that if we constantly paint this negative sign, it doesn't help to inspire, but to motivate those who make a lot of effort every day, whether it's in hospitals or in classrooms.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e582	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e585	We're dealing with the 2007 credit notification. As the rapporteur mentioned, this may not be the venue for the major debate on the use of oil money and the rule of action. But it is true that when the rule of action is actually mentioned in the document, the Progress Party cannot allow such an opportunity to comment on it in an annotated form. I noticed that the case rapporteur also gave us some visits in this area. I intend to come back to it later in the article. This makes me so far to reflect a little bit. The credit message is, in fact, a rather solid message, for those who are interested and read this message. I think Norwegian policy, and the credit notification in particular, had become a bit boring, it would not have been too much progress. I also believe the rapporteur-in-Office realizes that. Then at least there will be some debate, and it can be positive. But let me first take the credit message itself as such. As I said last year, I think the credit message is a good message, because it gives in a simple and good way an overview of how our financial institutions are doing, and how it is in the financial market. All the favors of the Department and the Council of State for it. Many of the messages are simply facts about the situation. And you shouldn't use a lot of political rhetoric to argue about that. The facts are basically facts. We're going to deal with that. Then I want to give further brilliance to the Minister of Finance. When we discussed the state budget last fall, we had a situation with these so-called Terra municipalities, the Terra scandal, with Terra Securities and some municipalities. Then there was also a searchlight on the role of the Credit Authority in this. An overall opposition had a note in connection with the budget input. S. No 6 for 2007-2008, the budgetary position of the Financial Committee, and we asked that these issues be specifically addressed in the 2007 credit notification. The Minister of Finance has done this in a very thorough way, and has also concluded in the same way after the input from the Credit Authority on what should be the way forward - not necessarily primarily with regard to the matter that was updated last autumn, but with regard to whether similar matters can happen again, how we work, etc. In a free market that we have in this area, which I'm glad - we have a very good banking industry, we have good financial institutions, the whole industry thinks I work very well - it's of course also important that we have the control device in place, so that everything goes after the book. The credit supervision is doing an excellent job in many ways, but some of us were stunned when we got this Terra scandal, when it turned out that it had been very many years since the credit supervision, among other things. had been overseen by the institution concerned. As I said in the credit report, we have now received more input from the Credit Authority and the Finance Minister, and I also feel that this is something you have to follow up on, and it will be done. An overall opposition has written in the settings of the credit notification that we ‘considers, in the light of experience, inter alia: having regard to the case relating to Terra Securities and the report contained in the Credit Statement, that the Government must have a focus in this area and that the credit supervision is more closely followed up». I believe that we and the Minister of Finance agree, as I read what the Minister of Finance writes in the communication, and that is how I am pleased. That was bragging. Well, then to some other areas. It is that when we come to the International Monetary Fund, the IMF, we have not, on the part of the Progress Party, joined in all the remarks made by the majority. Let me put it this way: in some areas here, we're probably pretty much in agreement, I think we're relatively in agreement that the IMF has to go through change and make a grip. There's no doubt about it. But we might disagree on where the IMF is going, and what steps are needed. There is simply a political disagreement. But I'm going to get more back to the IMF in the next case that the Storting will deal with, about changes related to the IMF. So the interest rate policy and the interest rate setting. I record that the head of the Finance Committee is not very happy that there have been 14 interest increases. I also register that you do not want to be responsible for the fact that this is the case. Of course, I would be a little surprised if the head of the Finance Committee had now taken responsibility on a tight arm for these 14 interest rate increases. It did not come as a bomb in this case. But what we're asking for in many ways is, yes, it's true, Norway's Bank sets the interest rate, but it's possible, if the Government wants to, to take some action to get a different interest rate trend than the one you've seen. In the view of the Progress Party, it is possible for the Government through the State budget to make some sensible investments that provide less pressure in the Norwegian economy. Infrastructure is a very sensible investment, where the Government could do far more to mitigate the pressure on the economy. There could have been an increase in the treatment of patients in Norwegian hospitals. We know that of many of the thousands who are in line, there are many people who are unemployed, but who are not working until they have received the operation they are actually waiting for. If the government provided improved patient treatment in Norway, we would get these people back to work. Work force is something we sorely need, so it would have been very good politics. One could have pursued a completely different tax policy, which had been a good incentive in the Norwegian economy, and which had also influenced interest rate fixing, as I see it, in a different direction from what we have seen now, that is, upwards. Of course, when you talk about caring for all those who are now struggling with high interest rates, you could also see the sense of giving tax relief, so that you do not add additional stones to the burden on a large number of small children's families, who often have relatively new mortgages on which they pay a lot, which depend, among other things. car, which has other expenses in the household. So there we could do something if we wanted to, by having a more sensible tax policy where we had reduced taxes and taxes, especially for those who have little already. It's not like the Minister of Finance often sees it, that on death and life we are going to reduce this for those who have a lot from before. The proposals of the Progress Party on the State Budget show our fiscal policy. We want mainly big cuts for those who have little, and we have put that up again and again. I hope you get it right now. Then I just want to say that in terms of the hearing you have with the governor, I think it's a good institution, to call it that, that the finance committee has this hearing. I always think the introduction to the governor is good. Then you get the opportunity to ask questions. If I get so much wiser from the answers, I don't know. If the governor gets so much wiser from the questions, I don't know. I just note that the hearing as such is a good thing for our work on the credit notification. I want to thank the case rapporteur for at least in his introduction he goes through some of the areas we agree on, what the credit statement actually says about. Then we disagree on a number of areas. I have no intention of bringing up any further debate now on the rules of action and the use of oil money. We debate it so often. But if it's mentioned in the debate, I'll come back.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e616	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e619	In the setting of the credit message, the Progress Party comes with a lot of clear views on the use of money in our society. It certainly also does the experienced fiscal politician Gjermund Hagesetter in today's business yesterday. He says: ‘I think we should be a little more concerned with the generation now living, rather than future generations. They get more than enough.’ And on the other hand, ‘There are no other generations that have saved us, despite the fact that the state has had large revenues from, for example, the silver mines on Kongsberg.’ My question to the representative of Leirstein must therefore be: is not the representative of the Hagesetter say an insult to generations before us, those who built this country? We talk about people as seventeen that both the representatives Hagesetter and Leirstein and the others, unlike our ancestors, could get free education and reasonable health services.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e634	No, on the contrary. This is actually a tribute. The fact that they were actually on, working, wasting the money and the wealth in Norway, meant that we who came after, in many ways came to the covered table. It's great that these people, our ancestors, through generations have made sure that they use their workforce and their investments in Norway to secure our prosperity. What is the problem now is that many of those who have had a tough life and have worn out--many of them are today, among other things. minimum pensioners - do not benefit from the fact that the wealth for which they provided the basis has become extremely good. There's one of the challenges here. So we must now take care of our future generations. Then it doesn't just help to get a fat bank account. Then there is a pretty big disadvantage if the house is overdue, because it becomes much more expensive to clean up this Norwegian house than to have long-term investments in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e641	I agree with the representative of Leirstein that the government could do more to dampen the pressure in the Norwegian economy. But the answer is definitely not the policy of the Progress Party. The Progress Party is in contact with many stakeholder organisations and is often informed that there are pockets of free capacity in an otherwise overheated economy. This reasoning tested the Progress Party on the President of the Central Bank at the hearing, and was answered. And the answer was that the kind of fine management of the economy had been abandoned in the 1950s and 1960s. I think it's a pretty good comparison. In the 1950s and 1960s, the type of planned economy to which the Progress Party is actually adding was left because it did not bring anything good. Does the representative of Leirstein see that there are some parallels between the fine governance of the economy that the Progress Party is trying to achieve in its budgets and the one that was left in the 1950s and 1960s?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e650	The fact that in many ways the Progress Party is accused of running a planning economy - it was relatively good - can become interesting in future government discussions. But now let that debate lie. I would like to say that it is precisely the representative, Sanner, and others who operate so-called fine-tuning, because you are going to try to steer by this goal blindly in terms of the rule of action. The Progress Party is trying to point out - where, of course, I wasn't very pleased with the answer from the governor - that there must be a difference in the government budget of different dollars that you actually grant. I think the replicator and I agree. There is a big difference between just giving money, for example. to employ more bureaucrats in the Ministry of Finance, and whether money is spent on road investment. Our point is that, during the hearing with the central bank manager last year, the central bank manager just pointed out that he was in contact with the civil engineering industry, which said there was no available capacity. But when we contact the industry, the industry itself says that there is no capacity available. That's why my question was answered that way. When there are areas of the Norwegian economy that have endured more activity, we should take this opportunity, and we can facilitate this through the State budget. So it's not a plan economy, but it's a sensible investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e659	Yes, now it's one year and a few months to the election. In an important matter in the Financial Committee in the UK, we are now witnessing a discussion between so-called future government partners, where the Right goes a long way in suggesting that parts of the Progress Party's policies have plan-based economic elements. In the past, we have witnessed that Ulf Leirstein, on behalf of the Progress Party, believes that it is the election result in 2009 that will form the basis for the type of economic policy to be pursued in a future possible new government, while the Right guarantees that it is not appropriate to rule with the Progress Party unless an economically responsible policy is pursued where the rule of action is also applied. Is it not time for the representative Ulf Leirstein, on behalf of the Progress Party, to sit down together with the Right and others with whom they want to cooperate, and to clarify to the electorate what kind of economic policy the voters can expect if you are so lucky to win the 2009 elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e667	The voters can expect a very sensible and good economic policy if the Progress Party is allowed to rule alone or, where appropriate, in cooperation with others. We're going to deal with that and definitely come back to that. The Progress Party is committed to pursuing a proper and proper economic policy. The problem with the vast majority - I'm going to be quite honest about that, it includes all parties minus the Progress Party - is that you have created a rule of action that you've never chosen to follow after the 2001 introduction. In the first few years, more than DKK 100 billion were spent than the rule of action provided. Now, of course, the economy has turned around, so now you're using significantly less than the rule of action actually adds up to. So as the situation is today, if we're going to rule with the party right and right will put on 4 pst. usage in terms of oil money, we have quite a lot to go on, actually much more than the Progress Party proposes to use. So then I think absolutely we should be able to come to an agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e674	I'll follow up the statement to Mr. Hagesetter in today's Business yesterday, where he's very pointed--
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e679	A wise man!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e684	- unusually pointed out at two points: one should think now and not the future, and there are no other generations that have saved us anything. There's a history description that most people don't recognize about what's been saved in the past. An attitude towards the future that is so selfish and primitive is well marked by the situation in which we have a high gross domestic product. Only two countries in the world - which are not proper countries, namely Luxembourg and Bermuda - have a higher gross domestic product than Norway. Germany has, for example: only half of the Norwegian. Does the Political Spokesman of the Progress Party feel comfortable with such an opinion, where one more of the degrees specifies that the point of policy is to live life now?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e691	I feel now that Lundtigen reads the statements of the representative Hagesetter in today's business yesterday as a certain self-employed read the result of the agricultural business. I am absolutely convinced, as I said in my reply instead, that if we look at what is actually the reality of what Gjermund Hagesetter says, I believe this is a positive recognition that someone has invested and been involved in building the country, which I know that the representative Lundtigen is actually concerned about, and that Lundtigen had a good report on the previous case. We have generations that have laid the foundation for the good prosperity in Norway that we enjoy today. But a good part of these people do not benefit from the prosperity today. The point is that with the incredible wealth we have, we had the opportunity to help these people now, rather than just saving for future generations. I know that the representative Lundtigen is as busy as I am that we have to make some sensible investments now that can benefit those who live today, but these investments will certainly benefit future generations as well. I haven't had that interview with Today's Business. I can't do anything but see what the representative Hagesetter has black -- he can certainly answer for himself, if he gets occasion for it later in the debate -- but I feel these statements absolutely positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e702	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e705	With the exceptional situation in Norway, with high revenues from the oil and gas sector, there is a strong political consensus on the two anchorages of economic policy, the rule of action and the monetary policy guidelines. It creates predictability for families, households, businesses and other market players. The action rule is primarily a generation rule. Of course, it also has a purpose in ensuring a predictable phase-in of oil money and preventing us from developing a Kuwaiti economy. But first of all, it must be a bulwark against generational egoism. For the Right, as a conservative party, administrative responsibility is crucial. That is why we are concerned that there should be a sustainable economic policy that takes on environmental responsibility, and that is why we are also concerned that oil money should not only benefit one generation, but that they should be involved and secure pensions also for future generations, and benefit several generations. I would like to emphasise this, because in the economic debate, the rule of action is often used as the only element in the description of a so-called responsible economic policy, and it is, in my view, wrong. The main reason for the rule of action is the generational idea that petroleum revenues will benefit several generations. I believe that the rule of action is one element, and perhaps a prerequisite, in order to pursue a responsible economic policy. But when the government parties are almost hiding behind the rule of action as a description that, as long as it is kept, the policy is responsible, I will disagree with it, because there are many other elements that must also be put in place if a so-called responsible economic policy is to be pursued. Of course, it's related to how to use the state's revenues. I am fully in line with the Progress Party when they say that lower taxes give less growth impulses in the economy than increased public consumption. It has also been written by the Minister of Finance in a letter to the Stortinget. Clearly, stimulating private savings in today's economic situation will have a positive impact on the economic situation. It is quite alarming that, in a situation where we have a finance minister from the Socialist Left Party, we experience negative savings from households. That actually means you're using more than what you're making. SV was previously a party that strongly warned against the private purchase party, but we never experienced the husband of recent years. It is obvious, of course, that structural policy, competition policy, is a very important element in the conduct of a responsible economic policy. It's about increasing supply and labour. We still have almost 700,000 Nordics out of the labour market. Obviously, if you had given more of them the opportunity to get into the labour market, we would also be able to solve more problems. It is obvious that, through competition policy, through the modernisation of the public sector and more use of Public Private Cooperation, we could have solved more tasks, and this would have helped to dampen the pressure in the Norwegian economy. I have quoted earlier today from the hearing with the governor, where he was very clear that there is a great potential for modernising the public sector, and where he also points out that structural policy has almost stopped altogether. There is perhaps the most important challenge that should now be addressed, because if we look at the challenges of the Norwegian economy, both in the year we are behind, and also in the year we are in, it is that Norway needs more hands. We don't need money. There is therefore a need to implement structural reforms, which means that we have more hands, both by helping more people outside the labour market, entering the labour market, and by stimulating more work. I see that both the Minister of Finance and the Red-Green parties are depriving themselves of any responsibility for the many interest increases we have had in the last two or three years. Of course, it is true that the interest rate was at an abnormally low level, and that it was going up. But it is quite alarming that the parties that profess to be the most political leaders are the parties that disclaim any responsibility for economic policy. Clearly, both the use of oil money, the expansion of fiscal policy, and the lack of structural policies and the modernisation of the public sector contribute to increasing pressure in the Norwegian economy. In recent years we have experienced a shift in responsibility for cyclical management, from fiscal policy, which is a political responsibility, and from monetary policy. When the government parties and the government waive responsibility, this means that a greater responsibility for cyclical management is shifted to the Bank of Norway, and that also means that we get more interest-rate increases than you would otherwise have.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e722	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e725	I would like to ask the representative Sanner the same question that the representative received after his post, because after listening to the line change between the representative Sanner and Leirstein, I am unable to push myself. For a long time we have tried to clarify economic policy and a possible government has left the Progress Party and the Right will lead. Having read what Ulf Leirstein has said in an article in the Business of Today last week, that it is the election outcome that will determine economic policy, when we have heard the representative Sanner's defence for the generational idea, and when we know what the representative Hagesette said to today's industry yesterday about the present generation and future generations, is my question: is there anyone who can live with the assumption that it is the election outcome that will determine economic policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e732	Of course, the election outcome will determine who will be in the government after the next election, and I have recorded that there are not so many voters who want the red-green games to continue. Otherwise, I have answered this question repeatedly, and I have also registered that both the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister have received my answers, because they are still quoting me when it comes to what conditions the Right sets for government cooperation in the field of economic policy. I can repeat it: Of course, the right will make demands, and will never enter into a government that conducts irresponsible economic policies. The voters know that, and the Workers' Party knows that. I think it's just as pointless to expect the Right to run an irresponsible economic policy that it would be to demand that the Senter Party join a government that would notify Norway into the EU. Everyone knows that to be governed together with the Right, there must also be a responsible economic policy that is predictable and good for families, businesses and other market players.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e739	Now the picture is pretty clear: there's total chaos on the civil side when it comes to government issues, this central question, and that's why we're taking time to discuss it here in the context of the credit notification. So we're facing two situations. Either there will be no bourgeois government - that is not a basis for it, because the Right makes this clear requirement, and the Advance Party will not agree to it - or we will witness the belly of the time in the case of broken electoral promises from the Progress Party, because the Right guarantees economic policy. But now leave it. At interest: I perceived that Jan Tore Sanner from the Right suggests that the red-green government should do more than be concerned with an economically responsible budgetary policy, and then I wonder if Jan Tore Sanner has coverage to believe that the Right Alternative arrangement - with a little more emphasis on private savings, with 1.6 billion kroner less spending on budgets - would lead to lower interest rates. Can Jan Tore Sanner give any consideration that he can tell the voters that his financial arrangements would give lower interest than we have today?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e749	When it comes to breaking election vows, the red-green government has put Norway's record in it. You had to get rid of poverty. It's got session. You had to fill the swimming pools. They're still empty. Elder care was supposed to shine. It definitely doesn't. So here, obviously, the Micah knows what he's talking about. When it comes to civil cooperation, I think the voters see that there is a bigger and stronger Right who is the key to a new bourgeois government. It almost seems as if the red-green parties have now given up, that they are going to lose the election, since you are so extremely concerned about which of the bourgeois parties are going to form the government after the next election. We must do that because a civil majority is to give a civil government. With regard to economic policy and interest rate developments, it is clear that our alternative budgets show the direction in which we would have steered if we had been in government. If we had more than three weeks, we would have done even more. But I am convinced that our structural measures with increased labour supply, private savings and slightly less oil money use would put less pressure on interest rates than what the Government's policy is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e758	I am responding to the statement made by Mr Sanner on interest rates. It is a fact that all parties present in this Chamber are joining a market economy with more or less political governance. Furthermore, it is a fact that in the fiscal policy pursued by all parties, except the Progress Party, here in the Chamber, there are microscopic differences in the consequences for warming in the Norwegian economy. The national accounts, which we've just gone through, prove it to the full. There would be no other temperature in the Norwegian economy with the Right configuration than with Regeringas. Interest is something that any country needs to use in a market economy to adapt supply and demand. One must praise the capital as a price of everything else. What is the representative Sanner would do differently in interest rate policy than what the government has done?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e769	I'd put fewer burdens on the governor's shoulders. I would take greater responsibility in financial and structural policy. The government itself has shown that the large amount of labour immigration we have had into Norway has contributed to lower interest rates than we would otherwise have had. British studies have also shown that if there had been no immigration into the labour market, the interest rate would have been higher. It tells me that what you do in structural policy, and what you do with the provision of work, matters how much interest is going to be. We don't need money, says the Minister of Finance, but we lack hands. Yeah, well. The right has put forward 32 very concrete proposals in the Storting on how we can make working more profitable, how we can contribute to the return of more of those outside the labour market to the labour community, how we can contribute to more labour immigration, and how we can modernise the public sector. This is perhaps the most important thing we can do to dampen the pressure in the Norwegian economy, and that would also have pushed something on the Governor to avoid using the interest-rate weapons in cyclical management.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e776	I record that when the Right Party and the Advance Party are challenged on the most central question that the voters want to get an answer to after the election, they throw themselves at the wave of discontent and spread myths and falsehoods, I would actually call it, about the government's policy. Elder care was supposed to shine. Yes, care for the elderly should shine - there should not be one penny in tax relief until the care for the elderly shined, was the message, not that the care for the elderly should shine. Jan Tore Sanner is wrong about that point. Poverty has increased. We don't know anything about that yet. What we know is that 200,000 more people have come to work. The minimum pensioners now have a historic boost and social assistance rates have increased. There are realities about the government's policy. As far as the pools are concerned, I agree that there is a challenge, but it is not in the government statement. So we have to use the right terms to describe each other's policies. So once again, is it that the Right can live with the fact that it is the election result to determine economic policy, that there may be a message that they will present to the voters in 2009? Or can we trust the Right when they say that it is completely inappropriate to conduct a responsible economic policy, which the Progress Party does not support?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e789	The President would like to point out that in this Chamber you are not going to go false.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e792	I don't think we'll agree on that! But to the matter, the government has given tax relief. They have given tax relief to those who have government salaries, and they have given tax relief to trade - organized and elderly care still does not shine. When it comes to breaking election vows, I think that when the Micaelsen goes out among the voters, he will hear a rather unanimous judgment, that one is disappointed that the expectations that the red-green parties created have not been met. Let me just repeat the answer: yes, it is the verdict of the voters who decide what economic policy is being pursued. In 2001, the voters gave a civil majority, and civil policy was pursued. In 2005, voters gave a red-green majority and a red-green policy has been pursued. In the 2009 elections, I hope it will once again be a civil majority, and then a civil policy will also be pursued. So the Right has made it clear that if the Right is to enter the Government, a responsible economic policy must be pursued. Everyone knows that. It's always been like that. We are the guarantor of that in every government we participate in. You don't come to the Right and ask to sit in government with us if you're going to have an irresponsible economic policy. It is the same as not being in government with the Central Party if you intend to bring Norway into the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e805	The representative Sanner is very concerned with increasing labour migration. Immigration to Norway is 20 000 non-Western immigrants this year, and then I ignore the category that the representative Sanner mentions. The NHO has said that these immigrants are more a cost to society than a contribution. Similarly, we see that Poles and others who have come to Norway are increasingly establishing themselves and becoming a cost rather than being a potential source of income in their work, as they were in the past. My question to the representative Jan Tore Sanner is: what is the difference between an immigrant and an immigrant? Is it the case that the migrant is working, while the other immigrant is living on social security and social security transfers?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e814	Now I think we're on the right track out of the debate on the credit notification, but let go. I disagree with the NHO because it is a waste of work immigration and asylum and refugee policy. These are two very different things. We want to increase imports of also non-Western skilled labour. We have a ratio of 5,000 that we can't fill. We see that some of the most powerful brains in the world, which we had needed in Norway, rather travel to other countries because we have a big bureaucracy that prevents us from getting the very best to get to Norway. We should be very happy that both Poles and others have participated in our labour market. It is the largest social cohesion project that Europe has seen, that Poles can come to Norway to work We see social cohesion in Europe due to labour mobility. [[The President clubs again.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e823	The President would like to point out that the speakers must keep their speaking time. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e828	The credit notification indicates that the increases in GDP for 2008 are clearly subdued compared to last year and are estimated to increase by 2.8 pst. this year. The labour market is tight and high wage increases in households contribute to increased consumption. At the same time, it is seen that there is more restraint in housing investments, and that both customers and banks are more restrained by the large loans. At the recent hearings we heard that there is still great optimism in the companies. Most expect increased growth in the coming year. There is still good growth in both labour supply and employment. We're different from most countries around us, and we've run the economy so that we have a stronger back than most people to meet the challenges. The signals we receive now, however, indicate that not all arrows go to the weather, and we have to prepare for some groups to encounter tougher times. More developments suggest that vulnerable groups may have problems dealing with their debt. Nordmen's debt has increased sharply in recent years due to increased housing prices, low interest rates and new loan products from banks. Low fixed rate loans make us more vulnerable to interest rate increases than most other countries. In particular, those who have recently purchased their first dwelling are exposed and have borrowed the entire purchase price and perhaps more. 7 pst. of Norway’s households, less than 150 000, are so indebted that according to the Bank of Norway, they have difficulties in operating the loan themselves with prudent living. 30000 households, mainly young first-time residents, are in debt up to five times their income. Both Norway Bank and the Banking Authority have expressed concerns about bank lending policy. Both the amount of the loans, the length of the repayment period and non-deductible periods increase the overall debt burden. We share this concern. For vulnerable groups, unemployment, sickness or the fall in housing prices shall not be high until this develops into serious debt problems. Therefore, braking banks becomes one of the objectives of the measures assessed in this process. I have noticed that the bank complaint this week has given the borrowers the support that they have received a loan they should not have received. Today's Business Today we see that some people have received nine times the annual income from loans. The bank in question, which has been dealt with in the Banking Complaint Study, had not complied with the statutory moratorium and has been asked to cancel the loan. This is a very clear signal to the banks of the country that, in some cases, the lending policy that has been pursued in recent years has not been sufficiently thorough. It is a pity that the banks have not understood this by themselves, but I am glad that the bank complaint topic has been so clear in its conclusion. Should experience lead to more critical and realistic assessments of borrowings, both by banks and by borrowers. However, other measures may also be necessary to increase the focus on these issues. The aim of this work must be to ensure that people actually pay their debts without getting into debt problems that they cannot handle. It is premature to conclude in this work, but reduced costs related to debt recovery should be part of this response. Even though we have a slight flare on loans in the housing market, we still have increasing debt growth. People have longer maturities on loans, and many push the debt in front of them and borrow so that they can only serve interest. As a result, many end up in a situation where they are very vulnerable to changes in the level of interest rates. If you are in such a position, soon divorce and disease will lead to situations that become completely unmanageable. Even a short time without income, such situations will quickly have disastrous consequences for those affected. The good thing about this situation is that we have a strong banking system. We have to hope that they learned in the early 1990s that they should show patience with those who are struggling. It will in the long term pay off for banks to help people through difficult periods, so that they get their money back in this way, and that the banks do not help to cause more damage to the individual borrower and to the big community than is necessary. Although there is still relatively stable and calm in the Norwegian financial market, we see that the banks are now switching interest rates upwards and beyond the level indicated by the Norwegian Bank’s interest rate. This is because, as the governor pointed out, the banks here are largely financing themselves abroad. When you get turbulence and big turbulence in the money markets in the United States and Europe, this also has consequences in the Norwegian loan market. These are problems and causal links that politicians and the Bank of Norway can do less. I think this is extremely worrying in the time to come. I have noticed that representatives from individual parties in this room are very concerned that the level of interest rates is now higher than that of the Norwegian Bank in 2005. Then I remember that in parallel with this, we have had far more work than the Norwegian Bank and everyone else joined in 2005. 200,000 more are now at work, and the unemployment rate is halved. I am uncertain whether the same representatives are also negative about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e845	After some excursions to both labour immigration and various government alternatives, I think it was very good to get the post that Magnar Lund Bergo now made, which was based on what might be the challenge for some more outsiders than within this room, namely to deal with increased interest rates on their mortgages. It brings me right up to some of the background to this, namely the so-called subprime loans around, especially in the United States, which have resulted in an estimate for Norway as well. This means that banks' interest margins increase considerably, and more than possibly the increased lending rates from Norway's Bank to banks. It gives us good reason to be on guard against the new position of people who are going to wear so much debt that they need help, even in this country. Therefore, I am somewhat surprised that no more are involved in a comment asking for greater consumer protection against the very aggressive lenders of consumer loans, which we all meet, and which unfortunately some come to the top of increased problems in operating their mortgages. I am pleased with what the committee leader said about working on this in the government, and I look forward to what the work might turn out to be. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we are concerned that the consumer should be protected in such a way that we can actually get time to think about what the loan offer is and what the real costs are. You don't get that with the SMS lending and hanging of people on the way in and out of Oslo S that is currently going on. So to some of the other things that this message includes. It was a very interesting hearing we had with the governor. One of the things that really makes sense is that the governor pointed out that we now have a bigger gap between the Norwegian wage costs and the average cost in other countries than ever. The pay gap has increased significantly only in two to three years. So far, we have compensated for this with a stronger productivity growth in Norway than in other countries. But those who see what the governor also said about it, record that it's also flattened out now. Thus, we see what we are at the beginning, a situation where the costs of Norwegian companies are gradually becoming so high that there will be a regulation of economic growth in that way. Unfortunately, it will often go against the competitive industries. There is something a government really needs to address, and that is also a responsibility for this government when a budget for 2009. I also agree with this point. The representative Sanner pointed out that it is also possible to stimulate more savings than this government does - not least when it is seen that savings rates are very low in Norway compared to almost all other countries. We could do more for youth. We could do more for those who are working by further stimulating pension saving. We will have the opportunity to discuss this in one week's time in relation to the revised national budget. However, the opposition has at least proposed measures in this way. Finally, a few words about the International Monetary Fund. I am very pleased with the majority comment from the Committee, in which we ask the Government to continue to work to look at the activities of the IMF in relation to its original mandate, and that we also look at how we can strengthen the ‘external impact of the developing countries’, as it says in the remark. In this respect, we do not assume that there is still a need to look at what loans are being granted from the IMF to developing countries, and whether these are in line with the values we want to base.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e863	The Norwegian economy has been and is in strong economic conditions, and this has been reflected in increasingly positive expectations in both households, businesses and Norwegian politicians in recent years. On the other hand, there is now every reason to show caution in relation to the unstable features that are increasingly evident internationally, and which also affect the Norwegian economy. I refer to the fact that the credit risk of the banks is largely linked to the development of the housing market. Norwegian households also increased debt in 2007 and despite increased uncertainty in the international economy and increased Norwegian interest rates towards what has now become a common concept, namely ‘a more normal level of interest’. I very much appreciate that in this room and in the Norwegian debate we introduce the term ‘a more normal level of interest’, because in our economy there must be a certain cost of borrowing money and some profitability in saving. If you break it, at some point you will have to pay a bill later, which will be very large. The concept of ‘a more normal level of interest rates’ also provides the basis for a much more real political debate on these issues. The profitability of saving and the cost of borrowing must be seasonally adjusted to the economic situation, which includes foreign competitiveness, and therefore the effect of interest on the exchange rate. The savings of households in 2007 were negative for the first time since 1988. Increased indebtedness, longer average maturity of loans and greater prevalence of non-debt loans make borrowers more at risk from residential cracks or unexpected interest rises, several of which have occurred. This increases the credit risk of households and is not a desired development in the opinion of the Centre Party. The international financial turmoil has also resulted in increasing interbank interest rates in Norway, i.e. interest rates between banks, as well as losses on investments in financial products and securities for several Norwegian municipalities and financial institutions. This shows that the Norwegian economy is also affected by the international financial turmoil triggered by the housing crisis in the United States. The financial crisis in the United States has spread to many other countries through international credit and money markets, often through complex structured financial products being composed in such a way that the final investor has not been aware of the extent of the risk involved. Losses have come as a bigger and less shock in banking, giving a whole new situation with strong, increased risk impacts both on deposits and lending to banks. I think Norwegian consumers should note that this risk premium may eventually become more unpredictable and may have greater consequences than the Norwegian Bank's interest rate setting. Such complex financial products and other risk transfer techniques, including different insurance against such risks, together with several transfer mechanisms between financial sectors, property market and the real economy, represent increased challenges in the monitoring of financial stability. This speaks for a more proactive lender role based on a greater respect for risk and less keen for big, fast money. There has been some discussion about monetary policy. My claim is that on the part of the opposition - with the exception of the Progress Party - it is not possible to pursue a particularly tighter fiscal policy than the government does. Financial policy is tight and contributes to a prudent level of interest. We are now in a situation where the expectations of non-residents for the Norwegian economy make us have a greater effect on the krone price through a modest difference in interest rates to the rest of the world than has been the case in previous periods. It's a very demanding situation. We should establish a common sense of reality of the relationship between the foreign interest difference and the krone price. Finally, on the International Monetary Fund, the IMF. There are good comments from the majority of the committee. The Committee's comments point to the need to contribute to a greater return of the International Monetary Fund to its base, namely currency stability. It is shocking to see how little the International Monetary Fund has been able and able to implement an understanding of the crises in the international capital market that we have seen. This suggests that one here needs to go through more thoroughly the way in which the warning systems and the openness that someone is talking about are working, so that one can make more sure that the shocks in the economy are not as big as they are. Furthermore, there are also good observations that the IMF must act differently from its legislation in relation to the many countries that are in a weak economic situation and need the vigilance of the big society, the world community.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e880	The debate so far today - in both cases, in and of itself - shows that it can be as difficult to rule a country in good times as in bad times. The good times, as this credit message reflects, provide the basis for stopping and reflecting on what is the most sensible thing to do in such a situation. There's no doubt that we've got a lot of the good times being given, not just amazing riches that we're building up from the North Sea, but also good times out in the world, which in sum gives Norway a fantastic situation. But I also want to do the little historical reflection on this occasion to say that it is not least a good governance managed by this magnification over several years and changing governments that have contributed to the fact that it is possible to have such a healthy and good economy. I want to stop at a few important milestones that I think are an important bottom line so that we can manage good times as we do. I was with many others participating in this debate on the 1993 Financial Committee. It was an important time, for then a tax reform that is extremely important for us to have as healthy conditions as we have in the Norwegian economy, later a tax reform in 2004. Much lower levels of taxation, less deductions and broader bases make investment and resource allocation - where money goes into this society - much healthier after these tax reforms. From the same date Norway has been a member of the EEA. There is no doubt that EEA membership has given the Norwegian economy much better ability to tolerate changing times. We've put several markets into use. The Norwegian economy has grown. That explains why we're able to take up these fluctuations. It's just looking at the exchange of labour with Sweden and Poland through good times. The EEA Agreement is a crucial foundation for managing good times as well as what we are doing now. I want to develop as the third important milestone the rule of action, which allows us to act -- at least most of us -- reasonably sober. Even if the barrier is full, we know when to turn the cork back. At least most of us manage it. The sum of this actually makes it possible to manage as good times as we've managed to do. I would like to draw this out because, in his presentation to the Financial Committee, the Governor used the word ‘productivity adventure’ in the 1990s as the basis for much of what is happening. It has not least to do with the modernisation and exactly these things that I mentioned here, which make it possible to get to the big growth. Because that's how - and that's the case in the future - we won't be able to have a good and big growth in the Norwegian economy without being able to follow up on the productivity growth that is necessary. That's why I think it's worth noting what the governor said repeatedly. In response to the Committee on Budgets, it turned out in his very mild way that what we have to say is a concern - perhaps a little critical of - is that now it is not the speed of productivity growth that it should be. He mentioned in response to Heikki Holmås, who the representative Sanner referred to earlier in the debate today, that nothing new has happened in the area of structural policy in recent years that can ignite productivity growth. In response to the representative Holmås, the governor of the central bank said: ‘The general structural policy - reviewing the tax system, reviewing whether the market can be used more in some places to make more efficient use of resources - is the recipe for keeping productivity growth up.’ And he said in reply to the representative Syversen: ‘There has been a lot of work done in the public sector, but there is an unusual amount of work that could be done.’ Then he starts to ram up some areas. This is crucial: if we are to manage growth in the future, it is necessary to achieve continued good development in the area of productivity, not least in the public sector. And here's my first criticism of today's government. It is a structural conservative government that has stopped important aspects of the modernisation of the public sector that could have contributed to the continued growth of productivity. The second thing I want to go as a mild criticism -- let me say it like that -- is: in a situation where the Minister of Finance boasts of a lot of growth in recent years, which is right, not least in private consumption, there should have been an active policy to stimulate private savings. It would have been a good contributor in the same economic policy to dampen some of the pressure that is evident there. As the governor himself said, it is about reducing capacity utilisation in the Norwegian economy. Finally, interest. Now the representative, Lundteg, said that he liked very well the term ‘a more normal level of interest’. It's in many ways a professional economic concept, which says that over time maybe we should have a real interest rate of 1-2 pst. I'm really afraid that this is going to be a political concept. It must be a government task to do what one can in financial policy and economic policy in order to reduce interest rates to the benefit of those who do not have money and at the expense of those who have a lot of money. So a ‘normal interest rate level’ I experience as a dangerous political concept, even though it is a correct economic concept.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e916	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e919	The representative Sponheim was very concerned that it was good times. Yes, of course, it's good times. But then there are a number of things that are not so good, and that are also structural things. We have 700,000 people between 18 and 67 years of age living on government transfers. It's a far, far higher number than in all of the countries we can compare with. We have a public sector that is due in terms of infrastructure, public construction, railway, roads, highways, etc. We have churches that are decaying, we have a defense that is constantly escalating, and we have a number of other areas where we are unable to manage what the previous generations created for us. We're getting richer, but we can't even manage it, and the maintenance run is increasing everywhere. A lot of people are doing well, and a lot of people aren't doing well. Is the representative Sponheim - at least it seems to me that we're going to be satisfied and proud of what we got in 1997, 2000 and 2004, satisfied with the state of things, or does he think it's possible to do completely different things, take structural action that makes this better, when we have such a huge fortune that we have, better than any other country?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e926	Unlike the representative Tybring-Gjedde, I have many political ancestors hanging on the walls around this building. And one thing I'm sure, they used every day to make this country better. They succeeded, and it can be documented. I think that both the representative Tybring-Gjede and I do, we use every day to do it better. I think we'll do a lot of damage to ourselves and to the future if we think that we can do things so fast and so dramatic that we might even in our time kind of do everything, so it shouldn't be anything for our descendants to improve in the country. Then we will do very much damage. I believe in laying stones on stones. I believe in building society as I defend it is the right thing. So is it that there is a colleague of the president, a republican, American president, who has said that why should I do something for future generations? They haven't done anything for me! The policy of the Progress Party reminds me a little bit about it. It is not the policy of the Left - it is not a liberal policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e933	The representative Sponheim and the others in the opposition parties are concerned with saving, I have noticed. It was also asked by the representative of Jan Tore Sanner to the Governor of the Bank of Gedrem. He said - if you look at the minutes of the hearing - that there has never been any particularly high savings in Norway. And the anxiety saving, which he used as a term, which is available in many other countries, is not available in Norway because there is a high level of confidence in the welfare state. In addition, he points out that there is a need to look at how it is saved in Norway, and that is especially about property. That's because we have deductions. Does not the representative Sponheim - and he is concerned with tax relief in relation to saving - see that it will only affect how you save, i.e. the tax deduction on savings, and not at the level of savings?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e940	There is no doubt that the use of the tax system can both shift savings, as the representative asks, but also contribute to net savings. I believe it. With as much consumption and growth in consumption and net wages as we've had over a number of years now, many would be able to save more if they saw them being stimulated to do so, and perhaps more than in particular the tax incentives would be isolated, because people definitely have the money and the opportunity to do so. It would, in my opinion, be a good contribution to dampening the pressure in the economy, as the enormous growth in consumption has now been. Here's the criticism, I think, it's important to direct the government, that they don't actively contribute more to stimulating people to save. It's basically healthy to save for a little bit of other times. The finance minister himself mentioned a Bible quotation instead of seven lean years and seven fat years, and at least that Bible quotation points to the fact that it makes sense to put up in the fat years to be able to cope with the lean years. It's not a policy this government follows up well enough, I think.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e945	I will again point to this with saving. Because I wonder if this is the case, when you used to have larger tax deductions for the type of saving that the representative Sponheim refers to, that there was a higher savings rate in Norway at that time?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e950	I think the numerical workers can fight about that. I've seen numbers for both of them. In any case, the fact that this country is so secure in its future, its society and its wealth that there is no fear-save, is about an attitude and a culture that it should be the governmental powers and the government's responsibility to try to turn around. We always have to, at my discretion, help to say that put a little aside, there may be worse times, think of the next generation, maybe your children need help in a start-up phase. There are fundamental healthy attitudes in all economies, and it should be a clear message to the Government. It doesn't have this government, it says: Use your money, have fun with us!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e955	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e958	To the discussion about saving: I don't get a lot of requests that we're too loose, and that we're approaching Sodom and Gomorrah in relation to how we spend money. We're saving on the state's hands. That's our common savings, so that's not the way we're looking. Then it is that tax-stimulated savings largely only help to shift savings and not to increase savings, and of course a more normal level of interest will lead to a more profitable saving for households than it has been before. So a few comments on the debate: I noticed that I received a message from the representative Ulf Leirstein. I think that's very nice, I hide that in my heart, as it's called. But I also noticed that he thought the credit message was a little boring. I think we should be very pleased about that, because action in the credit message is bad news. So I think that the representative of Leirstein and my need for action we have to cover by exchanging DVDs, figure out something else, but the credit message should be boring. That means that we have control, and that we don't gamble with many values that can have a big impact on businesses and on the lives of individuals. So I just want to say to this discussion about the rule of action: I think the Progress Party -- and I think maybe some of us, when the rule of action was introduced -- looks too static on how the rule of action really is meant. When the revenue from the oil and gas business goes into the State pension fund and we decide to stick to what is an expected real return on oil money entering the state treasury, it's actually a generation solidarity. That means that we're going to leave the value of the fund to the next generation, that we're not going to play on it, but we're going to use the return. But that's only half the rule of action. The other half is that how much is above and below the 4-percent is about the capacity of the Norwegian economy. That's why it was completely in line with the rule of action when Per-Kristian Foss spent many billions more than that 4 percent were supposed to say, because then it was unemployment and free capacity. That's why it's completely in line with the rule of action when we use a little less, because we have a lack of capacity. And probably because we have a long-term rule and have communicated it to the outside world, in today's situation we can spend more money without being punished for it, than we could otherwise have done. In today's situation, the rule of action is to help unload oil money into the budget in a way that we might otherwise be punished for. Then I think it is very interesting to see the clear ultimatum coming from the Right in relation to the Progress Party: they are the ones who have to decide what is responsible economic policy. This means that the rule of action should be applied as at present. And from the Right I get criticism for spending too much money, so the Advance Party can just start to rejoice! When they get peeled off by the 30-40 billion they spend in addition to what everyone else uses, there's only the Right Policy left by the Progress Party. Then I'm very pleased that the representative Sanner admits that interest would not be a "pillmit" lower with the Right Alternative State Budget, because they don't cut the state budgets to the extent necessary to get a lower interest rate. So then we're a little bit wiser after this. Let me just say something about the situation in the financial institutions. Of course, we are also affected by the crisis associated with subprime loans, but not directly and in the same way as many other countries are. What's the situation with us is that banks' borrowing situation has become considerably more demanding. This means that Norway’s Bank has increased the liquidity requirement to lend banks money, which in turn means that interest rates in the market have become more expensive for banks. But we're going to be very happy that we haven't been more exposed. So to the loan situation of households, which doesn't make the credit control call the alarm -- they say the banks are solid. But the debt situation in households is significant, when the average was 200 pst, and we have to expect it to increase to 220 pst. in 2011. The composition of these loans may also be different by the fact that several have used up flexibility for longer periods of non-reimbursable time, etc. So here's the absolute reason to follow the situation very closely. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e978	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e981	I think my name for the credit message was more that it was reliable than that it was boring. But I felt that there was almost an invit to a type of DVD film evening with the finance minister, and I expect that the finance minister after the next election might have some better time, and then we'll see if we can get it fulfilled and get some action. Anyway, I can at least also reassure the finance minister by saying that if that is the case, if any government statement after the next election of someone to cooperate, involves pure Right-wing policy, then the Progress Party is not to be found in that government. But you get to come back to that. I want to ask questions about something the Minister of Finance didn't mention. It's about the interest rate trend we've had, with 14 interest rate increases. I record that the Government is constantly very careful to point out that the Government has no responsibility for that development, it is Norway's Bank that sets the interest rate. But doesn't the Minister of Finance see that you have any responsibility on the part of the Government for the fact that interest rates have actually gone up, and that many of those who have little in the past are actually struggling?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e988	No, it is not that the government budgets presented have contributed to an increase in interest rates. But it's true that we haven't used state budgets or fiscal policies to keep an abnormally low interest rate, because it would have meant that we had to cut tens of billions of dollars in public budgets. We believe that most people are more exposed to the effects of cuts in that amount than that we get to a more normal level of interest rates. So it's like Norway's Bank has been predicting for a long time -- and I've been saying it in every respect -- that we have to be prepared for coming to a more normal level of interest. For there is no one who copes with historically low unemployment and abnormally low interest rates at the same time. This interest rate trend has been predicted by the Bank of Norway from November 2005. It is a little stronger than they predicted, because employment, i.e., the labour market situation, is much more favourable. For example, there are now 200,000 more in work, 170 000 more than the Bank of Norway believed at the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e995	I record that the Council of State initially says that we save so much on the state's hand, implicitly that then it is not so dangerous if the families live above their ability. I believe it is a major problem and a major challenge that we have negative savings in Norway. I believe that it would certainly be an advantage if we had motivated the families and households to save more. It must be a context when we see that other countries have much stronger incentives for saving while at the same time have much stronger private savings. My question, however, is linked to the challenge that I find the Minister of Finance was given by the Governor of the Central Bank at the hearing of the Financial Committee, where the Governor of the Central Bank points out the great potential for the modernisation of the public sector and where he notes that there has been little progress in the area of structural policy in recent years. How does the Minister of Finance view this clear challenge from the Governor? Will she now track and resume the modernisation of the public sector and contribute to better cooperation between the public and private sectors, so that we can solve more tasks in our society?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1002	I believe it is a major challenge for the public sector to change all the way to provide the best possible services to the population and to get the most forward-looking education policy out of it, for example. But I do not think that productivity development in the public sector can be seen in the same way as in the private sector, because in any case it is going to be much more labour-intensive in many areas. Then it's very much about how to organise a type of service. That's where we've got a lot. Take the health services, for example: - how much more is now done outpatient rather than hospitalisation. That's the way you can get more out of the public sector resources. It's an important work that we're doing. In addition, the job we do is by having a very high level of labour market measures to get people into work when we have low unemployment, which will be very effective in terms of how the economy works.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1007	We've seen a development in recent years, in these good times, when more and more very young people, perhaps people who are students and don't have much fixed income, buy very expensive homes instead of renting, not least here in the city, but also in part of the other cities and in the other places we study. This has led, among other things, to: The governor has expressed a turbulence -- I think it was in the credit message last year -- and has suggested that about 15 pst. of the dwellings is more than 80 pst. guaranteed. We know that many people are borrowing up to 100 pst. It doesn't look like the number's been getting a lot worse from last year to this year, but it's still so that there's a lot of things that are, if I can say so, pretty much the tremor in your pants every time it comes to notice of an interest rate increase, and now it's probably all on the margin of what it's possible to carry. Does the Minister of Finance feel concerned about all these young people who are living afraid of mailboxes and reports of new interest rate increases?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1014	I have them very far ahead in the pantry when we're going to make the budget for 2009, because we know that those borrowers who are under 35 have often borrowed more than 100 pst. the value of the dwelling. In a falling housing market, this means that the collateral for the loan is reduced, and they have often borrowed more than three times their income. This means that many people in the start-up phase are vulnerable to further interest rate increases. Now none of the interest rate increases we've had so far have come as a surprise. We've said it all the way. Norway's Bank has said what I have said, the Stortinget has said it - in all respects. It comes as no surprise to anyone, and all the banks should also have given advice in line with the interest rates set by the Bank of Norway. But it is clear that some of the things that hold us back from how much oil money we think it is possible to spend in 2009 are that many people on the loan market are vulnerable.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1019	That's not what the Council of State suggested, that the Progress Party spends NOK 30-40 billion more. It's a pretty deplorable use of numbers. We spend 15 billion more, so while the government saves about. 350 billion, we'll save NOK 335 billion. I can also say to the Council of State that the Progress Party will be the guarantor of a responsible and sensible economic policy and will not base it on economic models that boom enormously from year to year. It's accountability. So to the question to the Council of State: the Council of State spoke of ‘generational solidarity’. It's a great expression, certainly - in socialist circles the word solidarity is both used and abused a lot. But why is it not generational solidarity to invest in the future, in infrastructure and the things that the generations of the future can use? It is the very best form of solidarity to leave behind world-class infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1026	Firstly, it is not true that the use of oil money by the Progress Party is increasing by NOK 15 billion. That's what it's increasing in the alternative state budget. As soon as the Storting has finished dealing with that state budget, the Progress Party comes with much more. I would like to encourage the Advance Party to show the cards. You can now provide an overview of the status per Member State in the context of the revised national budget. the beginning of June 2008 as regards the proposed amount of oil money proposed by the Progress Party. Just last week, there was $3.5 billion in terms of petrol and diesel, which I haven't seen in any budget anywhere. So to the second: let's translate this investment, or save for the next generation, to ourselves. It's like I was going to think that building the most gigantic house of all was the best way to pass on a fortune to my children, and have no money in the bank. There I think you can think a little bit different, maybe of a mix: make a good investment, make a good maintenance and that the value of the investments we've made remains, but at the same time give the next generation some opportunity to make some choices that we're not going to make for them. That's a pretty wise mix, and that's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1033	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1036	Had the representative Hans Olav Syversen been in the hall, I would have told him that we think very much about proposals for aggressive marketing and consumer loans. It's one thing we should focus a lot on. However, I would say that there are more laws that regulate it today. One is the Financial Contracts Act, in relation to the bank's obligation to advise consumers not to raise loans that would impose a heavy financial burden on them, and the other is a matter that has just passed the Lamentations, on the non-advisory obligations in relation to the Credit Purchases Act. So over to what I was really going to say: 2007 has been a year that has been very marked by the negative development of the American economy. I want to start by focusing a little on the financial turmoil in the United States, and then connect it to households and home buyers. I think we can learn lessons from developments in the United States looking up Norwegian conditions. In addition, from the history of the unrest in the United States, I want to link what this has brought to the Norwegian so-called Terra municipalities, which, according to good advice, have invested not only money they had, but future revenues, in resold high-risk products, or so-called sub-prime loans, from the United States. Gradually, there were signs that this situation would arise, as in the US market even with very low creditworthiness, it was possible to purchase/acquire housing fully funded by the bank. In any case, without comparison, the American crisis can provide us with a lesson in relation to the Norwegian housing market to which I will eventually come. There is no doubt that many American households and home buyers have acted against better knowledge and have been led to take up mortgages they have not had the opportunity to serve over time. In the United States, there's probably a lot of people who know that they own mortgage brokers that are selling loans, and that take their commission when the loan is brokered. These have neither the risk nor the responsibility for the non-serviceability of the debt. With such a Commission arrangement and such a disclaimer on the seller's hand, it is good that many people are given housing loans that they absolutely should not have had. The sweetener is fixed low interest rates during the first years of the loan's duration and often also free of charge. So the interest rate is adjusted vigorously when this period is over. The housing buyers manage the liquidity burden for a few years, but then the problems come. Many have also lived in the error -- I've actually even talked to some American youths about it -- that the price of real estate would rise, and if it was too bad, they could sell the apartment with profit and then raise themselves at the carousel one more time. The fall in the price of dwellings in the United States has been galloping lately, and now very many dwellings in the United States are much less valuable than the debt. The history of the United States can be a useful lesson in how things can change in a negative direction. The interest rate was low, the interest rate was, as far as I remember, all the way down to 1 pst. in 2003. So interest began to grow gradually towards the summer of 2006. Housing prices in the United States have increased steadily until the summer of 2006. Then the cover comes, and the housing prices are going to sink. Dwellers with a high loan debt and low creditworthiness, but who still have a loan, have problems and have to leave the dwelling. Basically, this seems to be the problem of the United States and banks, but in very many contexts, these problems have proliferated in the big world as a result of the so-called subprime loans being resold as high-risk products on the international market. It is also here that the crisis in the credit and financial markets in the United States comes to small Norway. The so-called Terra municipalities ended up on the TV route precisely because part of the portfolio in which they were involved was resold high-risk sub-prime loans. As long as the credit market behaved normally, the value of the investments was roughly as expected, but when the credit market began to behave abnormally, the unrest also reached the so-called Terra municipalities in Northern and some municipalities in the south. Who had thought that Hattfjelldal, Hemnes, Rana and Narvik, to mention someone, would be affected by the financial turmoil in the United States? This brings me to the home arena, where I want to stay a bit with Norwegian households and debt growth. The growth of debt in Norwegian society has increased sharply from the year 2000, to which many have been involved. One of the driving forces has been low interest rates and strong growth in income and housing prices. It is worrying that Norwegian households also increased their debt in 2007 and that the savings rate was negative. In the case of loans, we see that there is a longer repayment period, and non-deductible periods are becoming more and more common, not least for initial starters. If we see this in the context of debt growth, we don't need to be a rocket scientist to see that these borrowers are more exposed to housing cracks or unexpected interest rises. In particular, high levels of indebtedness are among those newly established in the housing market. The credit supervision figure shows that borrowers under 35 years of age have an average indebtedness of 313 pst. This is 24 percentage points higher than in 2006. Youth apartments have been built around Norway, and I am surprised that the House Bank has gone in and fully financed these apartments for young people with housing needs without any credit rating. The situation has some similarities to what has happened to low-credited payers in the United States. A concrete example that I know very well, and which I'm going to use here, is a residential complex in Tromsø where the young people moved in a few years ago. Despite the fact that interest rates are still fairly low when we see interest rate developments over a slightly longer period of time, and that the instalments have not yet started to run, seven young people have twisted the key in the door and left the complex. There are also no other residents coming in because of the high public debt that the remaining ones are supposed to serve. What those who are left are desperately trying to do is rent out the apartments on the market. But even with a cooling apartment market, they don't get a provision on the vacant apartments, because of the public debt. I'm not going to maximize this situation, but I see that there might be some parallels to what happened in the United States. I have been given the opportunity to talk to many of these young apartment owners in Tromsø, and the situation is similar in many other apartment complexes, both in Tromsø and elsewhere in the country. This applies to both those who have had to lock the door and move out, and not least to those young initial starters who have had parents or others who have been able to help them in a transition period. I can only see that there must have been a failure when the House Bank has been in and fully financed these projects. What these kids are saying is that they've had to scrape together NOK 40,000, and then they've just been able to move in. Then there has been a common arrangement with low interest rates and freedom of deduction, but with a high debt in common. But the worst thing, and I have to say I'm responding to, is that I've seen representatives of regional home banking offices say in the media that these apartment complexes were ticking debt bombs. I'm sure that's right. But that's when I ask myself, why in the world has the House Bank gone in and fully funded ticking debt bombs for young people and others without creditworthiness? It's a mystery to me. In conclusion, I am pleased that both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, together with the House Bank, have addressed these issues centrally. In my view, there is a need for constructive approaches to these challenges. Otherwise, a number of young newly established people who have bought into these apartments will find themselves in a very challenging situation. It is necessary to tighten up the practice with regard to such full-financing projects in the Husbanken. I'm not saying that it's just the House Bank, it's also financial institutions that have gone into and created the same situation. But what we might have easier access to is, first of all, tightening up the House Bank, and, secondly, looking at what opportunity we have to improve the conditions of those who have come into this situation. I know about young people who are deeply concerned and tired of the situation they are in.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1082	The main reason why I am taking the floor now is that the wording that I had in today's business yesterday has been referred to three times in this debate. And that suggests that this look has made a deep impression on several of the red-green politicians. Of course, there's nothing more to me than making a deep impression on the government's representatives. I can start by re-reading this quote: ‘I think we should be a little more concerned with the generation now living, rather than future generations. They get more than enough.’ Further: ‘There are no other generations that have saved us, despite the fact that the state has had large revenues from, for example, the silver mines on Kongsberg.’ So I have no problem saying that I agree with this quote. This is probably what I said, and I think it's a good quote. So it's not like the representative Lundtigen is trying to put in this, that I order one to live life in sus and so forth, etc. It's really not. I'm a solid Westerner, who has grown up in a simple state, so exactly the drawing that Lundtigen gave of this - to live in sus and so on - is something I don't recognize in. But that's exactly the point, that it's the earlier generations, the old ones today, that have facilitated the standard of living and the well-being that we have today. It is also important and correct that those who are old benefit from these oil money, and that not everything should be saved for later generations. What has been said here, of course, is that there are none of the previous generations that have saved some silver funds, or other funds, to us, but on the contrary, previous generations have been foresaw and invested for the future. They have also invested in welfare schemes, and they have invested in infrastructure. They've invested in a society and a country that we can be proud of. I also thought that we should be much more concerned about: investing for the future, rather than saving all the money for future generations. We need to spend more money on investing in roads, tunnels and bridges. We also need to facilitate welfare schemes, provide tax relief. Skull construction needs upgrading. Church buildings need upgrading. So it makes more sense than transferring everything in cash and receivables to future generations. I think it's a challenge if we transfer too much money from book to future generations. As a result, many people are leaning back and not as busy as they should be in creating values, creating new jobs and new industries. Otherwise, I would say that the debate where one distances most people from retaining more of the values they create, in terms of tax and tax relief, and that the state has to sit on everything, is quite ahead of the Progress Party. We simply mean that most people are better able to take care of their money than Kristin Halvorsen. Therefore, one should have retained more by having had lower taxes and taxes. We don't think it'll make much more sense just the state gets the responsibility -- from almost the impression that the red-green think that one can't let most people keep the money, because then they mess it up. That is why we believe that we stand for a sensible policy. What I was quoted in Today's Business, is also in line with what the Progress Party has proposed, namely that we are a little more occupied with the generation that is living today than with future generations. It is those who are old today, who have built up the welfare society in which we live, and they must also be paid for the pursuit.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1116	There is not much I agree with the representative of Leirstein about, but I want to add myself to the line of giving both the department and the council a message of credit. What I want to focus a little bit on in my post now is the good overview and the great amount of attention that the announcement shows to the International Monetary Fund, the IMF. I experience it deepening current issues, such as monitoring policy, quota reform and voting rights, the economic situation and the work of low-income countries. In line with Soria Moria, Norway has worked to implement the international debt reduction initiatives and to increase the impact of small and poor countries on the governance of the IMF. We, who make up the majority - all except the Progress Party and the Right - support the voting reform in the IMF, because it is important to increase the impact of the low-income countries. The credit message also mentions actions to be implemented to reduce the increasing deficit of the IMF. That is why, like both the Council of State and others, I am pleased that the majority of the Finance Committee supports the Government's efforts to simplify the terms of the IMF in lending. The IMF has 185 member countries and is a central player in international economic cooperation. The IMF is autonomous, but under the UN umbrella. They have recently adopted a major change in their own governance, under which Norway has strongly supported it. The reform will democratise the IMF by being involved and strengthening the influence of developing countries. The IMF has a primary responsibility for promoting the stability of the international monetary system. At the same time, there is a forum for international cooperation on monetary and monetary policy issues. The IMF, together with the World Bank, is therefore playing an important role in facilitating debt payments for poor countries and enabling them to better reduce poverty and achieve the UN’s Millennium Goals. A review of the IMF's tasks is now being opened in several areas. The reform will be important in view of the legitimacy and impact of the organisation. For this reason, the majority of the Committee is very pleased that the IMF's activities and loan products are now being critically reviewed. The majority believe that the objective must be for the institution to reduce its activities to that of the initial mandate of the IMF. One should consider whether there are tasks in the IMF today, which should not really be there, but which may be placed under other international institutions. It is important that not unnecessarily strict structural requirements of the IMF weaken investment in health, education and infrastructure in poor countries. The majority also indicate that the UNDP has a high degree of legitimacy and knowledge of development needs and risks in low-income countries and should have a greater role on behalf of the international community in the future. The majority are asking the Government to update on it in the next credit notification, and it has confirmed it. Finally, I would like to say about the IMF: in the case of the failure of the Progress Party to fear demands for liberalisation and privatisation, and the fact that they indicate that capitalism and the free market are a good tool, it is important to say on our part that the Government and the majority are not in principle opposed to any privatisation and liberalisation. However, we are concerned that the implementation of such measures must be rooted in a wish of the countries themselves and not come as a result of demands from international financial institutions. It is absolutely central that countries with IMF programmes have the capacity to develop their own economic policies that best suit their own situation. Therefore, the IMF will focus on macroeconomic conditions and contribute to analyses that will improve the country’s ability to make its own assessments. So, this has nothing to do with the IMF at all-- I don't want to give 'alternators' cheap points, but I still want to give credit to Sponheim. I did not agree with Sponheim's--weak--criticism of the Government, but I think that in his post he had a very good historical not only analysis, but story, about why we today have such good stability and manage to control the Norwegian economy. So I give that credit to the representative Sponheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1144	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2 [[Food, see page 3698]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1160	In the previous case, we dealt with the Credit Communication, where there is a broad mention of the IMF, and there were several people in it. The representative Eirin Sund gave a very good speech in the case, where she explained what the IMF actually is. So I see no reason to go into it, as the case-rapporteur on this matter. I think it was a good description and a good contribution from the representative Eirin Sund who absolutely applies to this matter. But this matter is all about extending the organisation's investment mandate, implementing a reform of allowances and voting rights and agreeing to an increase in Norway's allowance in the IMF. As we have seen the matter - and I say that on behalf of a unanimous committee, who is presenting a position in line with what the government has asked for - this is in many ways a package that has been negotiated. This is not a small organization that is easy for us to turn down overnight. But I note, and to the extent that the Committee as a whole, that there is a need for changes to the IMF. It's one of the really big organizations since World War II that is now starting to take a proper review of the entire process in the organization, and I think that's positive. There might be elements of what it's now added to, to which some of us might be skeptical. However, as a package, as presented, the Committee has concluded that it would recommend that the Storting join what has been proposed by article changes in the Statutes of the IMF and an increase in Norway’s quota in the IMF. It is a unanimous setting, with unanimous comments, which have been submitted, in line with what the Government has asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1169	There was some debate about the IMF in the previous case as well, but I thought I would use this case to present SV's view of the changes that are now coming in the IMF. The IMF will be the first UN umbrella organisation to adopt major changes in its governance structure. Many of these organizations were formed after World War II and need to make changes. Norway has been particularly committed to strengthening the influence of low-income countries in the IMF. In part, this will now be achieved through an increase in voting weight, mainly as a result of the triplicate of the basic voices given to each country. On the one hand, this happens by strengthening the staffing of the offices of the African board members, which will enable them better to prepare matters on the board. SV is satisfied with the changes that have now been adopted, which we hope to put ourselves behind here today. This is an important first step towards increasing influence for developing countries in the IMF. Let's be clear: we in SV are not satisfied with just these first steps. We will continue to work to make the IMF more democratic, and we will continue to increase the influence of the low-income countries. In other areas too, there is a need to change IMF policies. I am pleased that the government has given signals that it will continue to work on it. The Communication also outlines the Government's efforts to simplify the conditions of the IMF in relation to lending. The IMF has, and in part still has, unnecessary demands for poor countries that have to borrow money. We've seen it when, for example, the case of Argentina and Brazil. When Lula won the election in Brazil, one of the first things he did, was to redeem the loan from the IMF, because the IMF had put such tight coercion strings on the policy that had to be pursued in Brazil, that he could not implement his election program with high loans to the IMF. We have also seen in the context of the Asia crisis in the 1990s how the IMF, together with the World Bank's policy, helped to exacerbate and prolong the crisis in the sense that when the crisis came, it began to devalue the currency and open the borders, which led to capital being increasingly displaced from the country, which considerably aggravated the crisis. In line with this, the Government has supported the recommendations in an independent evaluation report and organised a conference in January to address the topic. SV will, of course, contribute to the continuation of the work of the Government to follow up these recommendations. The IMF does not have a specific competence on development issues, and it is not really natural for this institution to work on long-term development funding. In the short term, however, no one else is ready to take over the role of the IMF in this area. But in the longer term, it should be an objective that other institutions assume some of this responsibility, preferably under the United Nations system. The IMF has announced that there will be an overall report on the fund's involvement in low-income countries during the summer, and then we in the Stortinget will be able to have an even better basis to assess these issues and to take further views on the IMF's mandate and areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1186	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 3698]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1202	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the party groups as follows: the Labour Party 30 minutes, the Progress Party 20 minutes, the Right 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Centre Party 5 minutes and the Left 5 minutes. In addition, the president suggests that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1209	The government’s proposal for a revised terms and conditions for the management of the State pension fund for the coming years is currently being examined by the government’s Government’s Communication on the management of the State pension fund. Total market value of State pension funds per On December 31, 2007, the figure was NOK 2 136 billion. This is distributed by NOK 2 018 billion in the State pension fund - Foreign and DKK 118 billion in the State pension fund - Norway. Government pension fund - Foreign countries achieved their worst performance in five years, with a negative return of 3.9 pst. State pension fund - Norway achieved a result approximately on average over the last five years, with a positive return of 9.8 pst. Based on new projections, the State pension fund - abroad will amount to approx. NOK 3 500 billion by the end of 2011, which is close to a double of three and a half years. The government proposes four concrete changes to the investment strategy for the further management of the State pension fund - Foreign. Government proposes to increase the possible percentage of ownership interest in a single company from 5 pst. to 10 pst. to allow the purchase of shares in enterprises that plan to invest in stock exchange listing up to 5 pst. of the capital of property, at the expense of investments in government bonds Furthermore, the Government proposes that the State pension fund - Foreign Affairs should in future relate to the FTSE index of the countries in which the fund can invest. Investment could then be made in 25 developed countries, in 7 advanced emerging markets and in 16 secondary emerging markets. All four changes are supported by an overall committee. The exemption concerns investment in property, where, in line with previous proposals, the Progress Party wishes to increase exposure to 10 pst. of the capital. As regards possible changes to the Fund's ethical guidelines, the Government plans to promote its own case for the Spring 2009 Stortinget. In the paper, the opposition is promoting six proposals. One proposal is promoted by the Christian People's Party and concerns the prohibition of investment in tobacco producers. I expect the representative of the Christian People's Party to expand it more from this pulpit. The other five proposals are presented by the Progress Party. The Progress Party shares the Government's observations that the large revenues from our petroleum activities give Norway particular freedom of economic policy. The Progress Party is therefore surprised that the Government has used this freedom only to a modest extent in the state budgets that have been presented to the Stortinget. This is not least related to the improvement of the country’s infrastructure, which will have improved the conditions and framework conditions for competitive business in all parts of the country, thereby making Norway less dependent on oil and gas revenues in the long term. However, the rapporteur has noted that an increasing number of parties and social actors recognise that the Government, through the annual State budget, is not able to allocate sufficient resources to infrastructure. The consequence of this is proposals for increasingly new infrastructure funds. The party of progress is very pleased with this development and welcomes it! The Progress Party has also registered that the Government’s largest contributor, LO leader Roar Flöthen, has now turned to the question related to infrastructure funds. Experience has shown that when the main sponsor thinks loud, the party office of the Workers' Party listens. It will therefore not be much surprising if the Government chooses to present the Infrastructure Fund of the Progress Party as its own idea in the 2009 budget. However, the party of progress is often a pre-misser both for the Government and the other opposition parties, but it is in any case taken when proposals are first criticised for being copied. The Progress Party notes that the Government is constantly drawing up new formulations as to why, unlike pension funds in all other countries, the State pension fund should not be linked to its future pension obligations. For example, no one in this room would propose the creation of an infrastructure fund to finance the defence, or a training fund to finance research on alternative energy, but, in the case of pension funds, the majority believes that this fund should finance all possible tasks of the State budget. The Progress Party considers this to be impeccable, and we therefore repeat our previous proposal asking the Government to submit a draft Constitutional Law on a State pension fund aimed at ensuring in the long term the accrued pension rights of members of the population, based on pension contributions from members and employers, as well as fund return. The Progress Party agrees with the Government that the pension fund should be managed with a view to achieving the highest possible return in moderate risk, but the Government does not consider that its own objective is met when it has chosen to increase the exposure in shares to 60 pst. of the fund's capital. However, the Progress Party welcomes the Government's intention to spread the risk among several asset classes through this Communication and to join a previous proposal from the Progress Party that the State pension fund should also invest in property. However, as mentioned earlier, the Progress Party considers that investment in property should in the long term amount to 10 pst. of the fund's capital, not only 5 p.m., and we are therefore promoting proposals in line with this. The main message shows that in its mandate for property investment, the Government will require AIFMs to take an active part in the international development of specific environmental considerations. The Progress Party believes that this goes far beyond what is reasonable for an AIFM to demand, while at the same time violating the Government's own objective of the Fund achieving the highest possible return within moderate risk. The Government acknowledges that the proposed specific rules will restrict access to competent external administrators, and even claims that this may mean that the Government has to reconsider the decision to invest in property. This shows that the Government’s objective of the highest possible return on moderate risk is only valid if this objective does not conflict with the Government’s political objectives with the Fund. That the government wants to use the people's pension money politically in this way, does not surprise, but that a conservative and market-friendly party that the Right is on the move is, on the other hand, more perceptive. The Progress Party notes that the return on the State pension fund – Foreign in 2007 was clearly weaker than the results over the past five years. This is not unexpected in the light of the turmoil experienced by tone-indicating exchanges during the last year. The progress party has also noticed that this is largely due to the relative strengthening of the Norwegian krona. However, unlike the Government, we believe that this relationship is crucial for the value development of the fund. Of course, the fund's purchasing power will be unaffected by trading in foreign currency. But the purchase of shares and bonds is not a measure in itself of the State pension fund, it is only a means. The return on the State pension fund - abroad will finance well-being in Norway using Norwegian krona. The fluctuations associated with the Norwegian krona are irrelevant only if the Government sees itself using the income of the State pension fund - Foreign for acquisitions abroad. However, the Progress Party has noted that on previous occasions the Government has expressed a negative opinion on the proposals of the Progress Party to establish its own foreign budget for acquisitions abroad, despite the fact that such investments have a minimal impact on the Norwegian domestic economy. The total management costs of the State pension fund in 2007 were 1,783 million. kr. This is close to the other limit of 0,1 pst. by the average market value of the fund. This is an increase of 33 pst. from 2006. As a curiosity, it can be mentioned that the management of the State pension fund cost 480 million. kr more than the government spent on the State budget in 2007. The Progress Party believes this is an unwise disposal of Norwegian people's pension money, and we believe that this money should benefit the Norwegian capital management environment more strongly. The Progress Party believes that Norway’s unique access to capital should be seen as a comparative advantage and that we as a nation should make better use of it. For the Progress Party, this is a natural exploitation of our natural resources. Norway has built up a significant oil and gas industry, and we have further developed a supplier and transport industry linked to the same commodity. We are now converting this commodity into capital - and as the Council of State was in the past, a non-renewable resource into money - but we are leaving it to other countries to further exchange capital. The progress party thinks this is an old-fashioned, maybe a bit of an unorthodox approach. Norway has the very best prerequisites for being a Nordic leader in capital management, and there is no reason to leave such a role in Sweden. Experience from other countries shows that a highly professional capital management environment brings with it other related industries, not least banking and insurance actors. The Progress Party therefore again asks the Government to explore the possibility of establishing a capital management environment in Norway based on the investments made through the State pension fund - Foreign. The Progress Party welcomes the Government's desire to expand its portfolio of shares to include more countries and regions. Adequate management and specific rules will enable this to spread the risk further and provide a basis for more stable returns. However, the Progress Party would stress that ownership is up to 10 pst. in a single company should only be able to take place exceptionally and we would warn against such a relatively high holding being used to promote politically motivated objectives. State pension funds shall be exclusively a financial investor and a higher holding in individual enterprises must not lead to a requirement for representation in the corporate governance of enterprises. The Progress Party also considers it reasonable to link the fund's equity investment universes with the FTSE country index. This removes the possibility of ideologically motivated boycott of land. In this respect, the Progress Party welcomes the fact that, as a consequence of the above, Israel will be one of the new North American pension funds to be invested in. The Progress Party shares the concern expressed by many countries related to the world's many growing state investment funds. This is due in particular to two factors. The world's stock exchanges are a market place for the purchase and sale of shares of the world's leading companies. Ideally, each enterprise is priced on the basis of expected future performance. This makes the valuation of the companies on the stock exchange fluctuate. State funds, such as Norwegian funds, based on investments from a 100-year perspective, often contribute to balancing natural and correct fluctuations in the stock exchange value of enterprises. As long as market information is equal, companies that operate poorly and have prospects for long-term performance should fall in value. This is an important signal to the company and to the market. If, on the basis of 100 years of long-term sustainability, state reserves buy shares in enterprises when all others sell, the stock exchange no longer constitutes the place of exchange the correctness it is intended to constitute. Buying shares at falling prices also contributes to a significant increase in risk. This is because large state funds are less able to sell quickly if the current company is unable to reverse operations. The second relationship is linked to specific political rules imposed on State funds. The Progress Party records the Government’s claim that it does not use the State pension fund as a political tool. From some perspective, this is probably correct, but there is little doubt that the use of rigid ethical guidelines can easily be seen as political or non-commercial objectives. Not least, this Government's subjective and inconsistent use of ethical guidelines related to the international defence industry, where the extent of companies is due to their mandated production tasks on behalf of their respective governments. Excerpts from such enterprises are, to the greatest extent, political opinions, where transparency around the extracts reinforces the political message. The Progress Party is pleased that the Government has gradually become more sceptical about withdrawing individual enterprises from the State pension fund investment portfolio. This is positive and shows that the Government has taken more into account the consequences and ring-effects of such extractions. However, the Progress Party is concerned about the companies that were withdrawn from the investment portfolio at an early stage of etiquette, and we are particularly concerned about the expansion of the world's leading defence industry companies. So here the government has chosen to label the production that's going on in the world's leading technology companies, as unethical -- this despite the fact that the same companies have made it possible for us all to use planes when we're out traveling. They have developed composite materials that have revolutionized the car industry, and they have enabled man to land on the moon. These are enterprises that have produced material on which the defence of Norway is entirely dependent, and there are enterprises that have produced components of nuclear weapons, which have enabled Norway to be protected by NATO's nuclear weapons umbrella. Unfortunately, despite the Government's insistence on the opposite, the Government's decision on the extraction of previously mentioned enterprises is perceived as a political signal. This is because production by enterprises such as Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman, EADS and others takes place following direct orders from the political authorities of the countries. The Progress Party underlines that the objective of the highest possible return in moderate risk would not be achieved if the Fund’s ethical guidelines were to impose ever-increasing restrictions on where and in which securities the Fund could invest. The Progress Party considers that the management of the State pension fund should essentially follow the guidelines and decisions of the organisations set up to monitor world trade and that its own specific ethical rules for the State pension fund could be seen as subjective, inconsistent and double-ethnic. Today’s ethical guidelines are also used as political opinions in several cases. To this end, the Progress Party wishes to recall the wise views of the Governor of the Bank of Gedrem during the Annual Report of the Bank of Norway in February of this year, in which he highlighted: ‘When we place the funds of the pension fund, we are guests in the house of our neighbours. When we raise our index finger against a company, we also raise it against laws, regulations and practices in the countries where the companies belong and operate - and we do it as representatives of the Norwegian state." [[...]] The Progress Party hopes that the Government has noted the observations of the Governor and that it will base them on its possible proposals for adjustments to the ethical guidelines announced to the European Parliament in spring 2009. However, the Progress Party is surprised that the Government is already warning that environmental aspects could become part of the revised ethical guidelines. In this context, the Progress Party would recall that the capital of the State pension fund stems from an industry that is historically responsible for huge emissions of greenhouse gases and that it would be very moral to impose emission reductions on enterprises in other countries that our companies have never been required to build up our own petroleum assets. The Progress Party has taken note of the conclusions reached by the company Ernst & Young in the light of the company's review of Norway's Bank's risk management in the management of the State pension fund - abroad. The party notes that Ernst & Young finds it difficult to make a relevant comparison with the risk management of other large funds elsewhere in the world. However, the Progress Party is pleased that the Ministry and Norway’s Bank are already improving a number of issues related to risk management and that clearer responsibilities and more active use of external audit will hopefully make management more transparent and traceable. The management of the State pension fund has gradually become very extensive, and we fear that the time and resources spent by the Norwegian Bank on managing the fund go beyond the traditional tasks of the bank. This will include, inter alia: through the emphasis placed on this administration, in the contacts of the Financial Committee with the Governor of the Central Bank. The Progress Party therefore has the following proposals: ‘The decision asks the Government to assess whether the current organisation of national pension funds is the most appropriate and appropriate. Such a review should also assess the role of the Ministry of Finance. In the context of such a review, it is natural that it should also be assessed whether it is appropriate for the State pension fund to establish its own board of directors and whether a separate administration should be established.’;» Finally, I would like to address the five proposals that the Progress Party is promoting in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1311	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has drawn up the proposals he referred to, and the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1316	At this time last year we had a fresh debate on the management of the State pension fund for 2006. I would like to remind the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde of an opinion he had in the debate in that regard: ‘Is there really anyone in this room who believes that increasing our share exposure in, for example, India, Pakistan, Indonesia or South America is a wise way to manage our future pensions?’ This year, all the parties, including the Advance Party, are taking part in 19 new countries, among others. those countries are included in the reference portfolio of the Fund. Can we take this turn as a sign that the representative Tybring-Gjedde has in the meantime gained a better understanding and understanding of what is a good management of the State pension fund - abroad?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1326	The Progress Party feels confident that Futsi and the London Stock Exchange – and not the Ministry of Finance – are the right ones to assess the markets. We rely on the assessments that are made there, based on the experience that they have. I insist that the markets I mentioned are very unsafe, but again: I think it is wiser to deal with Futsi's assessment of this than what a single representative at Stortinget or the Ministry of Finance would think, and then we release the political burden and assessment that is in an SV-led department.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1333	There was a lot of political oaths and bile when it was quite a lot, but I'm going to limit myself to the ethical basis for the management of the State pension fund. In a note, which was probably also referred to by Tybring-Gjedde, the Progress Party says that «customer specific ethical rules for the State pension fund by definition will be understood as subjective, inconsistent and double-moral. Today’s ethical guidelines are also policy opinions in several cases’. As far as I remember, the Progress Party was among the parties that wanted ethical guidelines for the management of the Pension Fund. So my question is, is it now that the Progress Party no longer wants any rules for the ethical administration?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1345	It is interesting that in this case I get this line every year in this room. Last year another representative asked the exact same question. Yes, we are in favour of the ethical guidelines, but we are against the development of the ethical guidelines. The ethical guidelines must cover corruption and that kind of thing. Otherwise, we want a strong international law, so that we all have the same framework conditions for investment and world trade. That is the aim of the Progress Party. Then we want to strengthen those organisations that are working towards a political goal: to ban a number of things. Well, then you can do it politically. But using this subjectively and on the basis of the story that Norway has -- which has supported child labour -- we've bought weapons from defense companies that we now exclude, and a number of other things -- is therefore inconsistent and double-ethical to have the kind of ethical guidelines that we now have. Where should the limit go? Should we stop investing in airlines? Are we going to stop investing in the car industry? Should we stop investing in books that are not morally upbuilding? The tobacco industry is a good example. What about pornography, what about the gambling industry in Macao? Where should this ethical limit be put?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1354	It is particularly important to hear a representative of the country's second largest party put forward in this way with regard to the ethical guidelines. Comparing the gross exploitation of children, gross environmental crime, class weapon production and other things with excluding companies that are not engaged in upbuilding literature is in itself quite special. I particularly think that the inclusion of the defence industry, which is being brought forward here today, by the Progress Party, is touching. It can almost be seen that the representative Tybring-Gjedde is calling for us to have one set of ethical guidelines for our allies, because of the embrace of the defence industry, while we are going to have different ethical guidelines for all other companies in Norway. Finally, does the representative Tybring-Gjede think that on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Norwegian people have with them the great resistance to setting clear ethical guidelines on the management of our fantastic oil fortune?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1361	Now the Progress Party is not as populist as the representative Torgeir Michaelsen. So whether the Norwegian people are with us or not, we are at least rational, sensible and consistent in our attitudes to the ethical guidelines. We want Norway to be actively involved, for example: if you want to ban things, through international organisations. When you ban a weapon, and it is internationally accepted by everyone that this should be banned - well, we should not invest in that kind of weapon either. The point is that when there is a company that produces a type of weapon that the Minister of Finance doesn't like, and one boycotts the whole business -- like the 300,000 employees of Lockheed Martin, who are world leaders in technology, who have given us an incredible amount of benefits that we enjoy every single day -- it's an inconsistent attitude. In the case of child labour, the option for children must be better than working. A report shows that in Bangladesh, the alternative is child prostitution, it's not school. We're not talking about Norway in 2008, we're talking about Bangladesh in 2008. The alternative must be better. Because why should we make everyday worse for these kids, when we can do it better?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1370	In fact, I think there is a need to ask the representative Tybring-Gedde questions about this at every reading, because I am not really getting any clarity as to whether the Progress Party now regrets that the current ethical guidelines for the Fund were voted on in due course, or whether they are not. Tybring-Gjedde says that you want to strengthen the organisations working on that kind of question internationally. Of that, it must be concluded that they see no need to have their own ethical code for the management of the Norwegian pension fund. Is that a correct observation?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1378	For the second time, we are in favour of the ethical guidelines, but we are not in favour of the development of the ethical guidelines. For every year, the Council of State presents a new report to the Stortinget, it becomes stricter and more stringent. Where should the limit go? That's the question. Where shall the ethical guidelines be based? The goal is to get the best possible return in moderate risk, because it's our pension money. So it's not the government's money, it's the people's money. We have a goal, a goal, and we actually have a task for the people to give the best possible return. We are in order to have the ethical guidelines, but we want us to have equal conditions for international industry and the investment industry and the capital industry. Then we can't have rules of our own to show that we're the world's best in class. That's not how it works. We have to use the international organizations, use our influence there to find common ethical guidelines, common goals for trade, and not sit here in the north and believe that we can control world trade using a huge oil fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1387	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1390	When we look again at issues related to the State pension fund, this time for 2007, this year’s debate also follows clear policy lines from recent years. There is a great deal of agreement between the various parties, except for the Progress Party, in which the case-rapporteur, Christian Tybring-Gjedde, has written comments which have been largely endorsed by the Progress Party. The same applies to minority proposals of the Progress Party. There were completely different notes in the previous period, some of which have been mentioned in the past, when the former political spokeswoman of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, now leader and prime minister candidate, along with the SV and other political parties, was an avid champion of ethical guidance, that is. the same guidelines as those of today's red-green government. Now the Progress Party is acting in a remarkable way. One would not think that a few years ago this was a matter for which they were a warm champion. As I remember the story - the finance minister can probably tell it better - there was an SV initiative in 1999, which became an important joint venture, as the then government presented, and which was dealt with in the Stortinget in 2004. I can't understand a way of thinking where it's not supposed to be allowed for Norway to have its own ethical guidelines that are practised in connection with foreign involvement within the Pension Fund, guidelines based on what we think is fundamental in terms of human rights, not least children's rights and health. These are values that Norwegian society, like many others, and not least the United Nations, stands for. The investments we make are of a financial nature. We don't do it as strategic investments to gain power and influence, as many other funds do, and as many foreign governments fear. That's why we also have limitations on how much ownership we can have in the different companies so that we don't get into too strong a position of power. So the representative Tybring-Gjedde expounds that the rules of each country are general what we're going to think about ethics in companies we're a member of abroad. It is sad with child labour, but we have to accept this in businesses in other countries, is the melody of the Progress Party. In our opinion, there are ethical rules and influences on the environment that bring forward central human rights. We need to focus on environmental and social considerations. If we are to follow the thinking of the Progress Party, then we will stop worrying about what is happening outside the borders of the country in terms of investments we make through the State pension fund - abroad. I think it is important that countries like Norway and others with the same view go ahead and show that companies we invest in with the State pension fund's funds should not give any enterprises the right to trample on fundamental human rights or contribute to grossly unethical production or activity. Through this, we can participate in ensuring the long-term functioning of the market, and not least we can help companies act responsibly in this area. We have, as far as I remember, withdrawn from 30 companies in total - and that is a period back from 2002 - of which the fund has excluded 20 companies, which produce anti-personnel mines, class weapons and nuclear weapons, respectively. In such cases, it is in my opinion right to withdraw. There is a strong political consensus that we do not want to contribute to the State pension fund - Foreign investment in companies with unethical activity. The withdrawal may also result in the withdrawal of other private funds. Norway has gained a great deal of recognition for the way we practice the ethical guidelines. So I'm going to be so honest to say that I see that there can be border crossings where we can also affect from within, and where we need to have a waiting attitude to withdraw. In my view, it is necessary to consider carefully on a case-by-case basis what it will be possible to change with regard to undesirable behaviour. The control question we have to ask ourselves must be: do we have the opportunity to change the behaviour of the company in a positive direction through work from the inside, or does this seem pointless? The government has notified and facilitated the launch of a comprehensive evaluation of the Ethics Guidelines for the State pension fund - Foreign. The current guidelines were adopted as mentioned in the 2004 Stortinget in the autumn. A comprehensive and open process has been set up, including a very broad inclusion, not least in the consultation and consultation rounds. It is important to ensure that the ethical guidelines function according to the intention, to continue to maintain a broad political consensus on the guidelines, and, in particular, to capture inputs that may help to strengthen the ethical profile of the Fund. At the same time as next year, this Assembly - including the Advance Party - is given a broad opportunity to comment further on the ethical guidelines. The transparent way in which the Government and the Minister of Finance put up this evaluation round deserves to be commended. In my opinion, there are no fixed positions. As indicated in both the comments and the proposals, the Party will have the State Petroleum Fund out of the Bank of Norway. This deepens the representative Tybring-Gjedde in an article in Today's Business on 3 June this year. Here he is primarily concerned about the bank’s and the governor’s time use in relation to the fund. To that end, it is said that there is a separate department within the Bank of Norway that has had this office since 1997. Although it is the President of the Central Bank who is the President, this is a sound justification for such a distinction. In my opinion, there is no point in claiming that this organisation is at the expense of the traditional tasks of the Bank of Norway. Nor do I see that the focus on macro- and micro-economic analyses is being lowered in today's system. It could have been very good to get evidence that that's the reality, if that's what the Progress Party thinks. I think today's system works great, and this view I see that there is a solid majority in the back of the Storting. I see in the same article in Today's Business that it is not just elaborated that the Advance Party will have its own company. They have also found the right person to be the chairman of such a company, and former party president Carl I. Hagen points out. This is to be a little overly overactive in relation to the progress of such a case? The Progress Party also calls for a greater build-up of its own management companies at home. In my opinion, the most important thing for the future management of the fund is to get the best administrators, whether they're out or they're at home. In my opinion, this will mean that we get the largest return over time, and that is a main goal of setting up that fund. Norwegian management companies must compete in line with foreign managers, and those who are the best must be given the jobs. I thought the Progress Party was for the free development of the market without restrictions in the use of tenders and competition or borders that restrict the international economy. In this case, it seems that the Progress Party is going the other way, by wanting to shield Norwegian finance managers from competition with the best administrators abroad. In my view, competition in this area must be achieved if you are to get the highest possible return and thus also get the best administrators. With regard to the return on the State pension fund - Foreign for 2007, it has been low in the historical context. In my and the majority's view - including the opposition parties Right, Christian People's Party and Left - this is good within the range of what one must expect within the current investment strategy. It is probably fully possible to reduce the annual variation in yields, but the counterpart will be a reduced long-term return. A solid majority on the Stortinget, minus the Progress Party, has a goal that we should have a long-term management as the goal of the State pension fund - abroad. We know there are short-term fluctuations in returns, but at the same time, a slightly higher risk tolerance gives higher expected returns in a longer time horizon. State pension fund - In my opinion, abroad has a good and long-term investment strategy that it is important to maintain. We have enough examples of investors that allow the strategy to shift with market conditions, i.e. where a buyer when the times are good and sells when the markets oppose. We are not in a position that requires this, nor is it the fund's goal or intention that we should conduct short-term speculation or get cold feet that mean that we have to buy at the top and sell at the bottom. We must always have an open debate where we constantly focus on the main issue, which is the following: How do we ensure the highest possible return at the lowest possible risk? I believe that today we have a good regime that will take care of future generations, and the opportunity through the rule of action to extract funds for today's welfare society. The Progress Party also focuses on the fact that the management costs are high for the State pension fund - Foreign. Here I would like to draw attention to the fact that an independent analyst commissioned by the Ministry of Finance makes annual comparisons of the management costs of the State pension fund - abroad with the costs of other large international funds. Here are the results of this comparison which indicate that the State pension fund - abroad has lower costs in relation to managed capital in other large funds. The Progress Party has its own alternative reference portfolio, where they want the share to be 40 pst, a bond share of 50 pst. and 10 pst. on property. In the case of property, if a quick purchase is to take place up to 10 p.m., the investments will take place in high ownership interests in quoted property investments. There is reason to point out that the world index of property investment has fallen by more than 20 pst. the last year. Similarly, the stock market has fallen by about 10 pst. Estimates of return in the last 12 months show that the Progress Party's alternative portfolio would not do better than a portfolio with a 60 pst distribution. shares and 40 p.m. bonds.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1439	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1442	The representative Jamessen and the undersigned have at least one thing in common: we spend our entire speaking time on the policy of the Progress Party -- he to caricature it, and I to present it. But that's okay. Today, Norway is protected by NATO’s nuclear umbrella. These nuclear weapons are produced by enterprises that the State pension fund has drawn from its investment portfolio. Does the representative Jamessen think it ethically correct to regard these companies as unethical or in conflict with the UN, when we are at the same time protected by the weapons produced by these companies? That's question one. Does the representative Jamessen think it ethically correct to boycott child labour in Bangladesh when reports clearly show that most children between the ages of 11 and 14 ended up in child prostitution? Is it better that they do it, when the option is not Norwegian school and what is presented here? Is there an ethically correct assessment to make?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1451	First, I want to say that when it comes to child labour, we're going to fight it -- whether it's out or at home. I am so honest that I have to say that although there is child prostitution in other countries, we have to use our power and our powers to change that situation. I think we can do that using the power and influence we have. We can influence other countries, along with the UN or with other child organisations. I don't think it should be child labour or not, it should depend on a limit, whether it happens here or there. I think we're going to focus a lot on it and use ethical guidelines in relation to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1458	I only got an answer to one question, so this time I'm going to ask just one question. That's the first question I asked about NATO's nuclear weapon umbrella. Norway has been protected by NATO’s nuclear umbrella since its introduction. NATO was established in 1949. We are protected by weapons such as: produced by Lockheed Martin and Northrop Grumman and others. All these enterprises have been boycotted and excluded by the State pension fund - Foreign. Does the representative Jakobsen think it is ethically correct to take these out because they produce unethical components or weapons you don't like, and at the same time be protected by NATO's nuclear weapon umbrella? Is that an ethically correct decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1465	As far as the ethical rules we have are concerned, the enterprises in which we are to invest the State pension fund funds. There we have clear guidelines. I think it is quite clear that it is proper to take these out. I respect that the representative Tybring-Gjedde has a different view on that issue than what I have. But I want to defend what has been done.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1470	No more words have been asked for a line. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1475	I intend to spend my speaking time on Right Policy and Right Views. That in this case they coincide with what a broad majority of the committee thinks, I do not think, to any extent, make them worse precisely in this round. There are two key concepts in the state pension fund, or what we have previously called the oil fund. One is the generational perspective, and the other is the administrative responsibility, in all phases of the word, in view of the responsibility for the next generations. The oil fund -- to call it that -- is so big that it's really hard to imagine the size of it. This means that the systems to deal with this must be responsible in all senses of the word. In other words, there must be systems responsible for investment, there must be systems responsible for strategies, ethics, control and management. It is quite a great responsibility for the Bank of Norway, which exercises this, for the Ministry of Finance and to the seventh and last not least for the Norwegian Government. Therefore, it is reassuring to conclude, even in the examination of the annual notification of the State pension fund, that there is a very large degree of agreement on the management. I would like to stress that one of the most important things about this is the consensus that both the majority and the rapporteur in the case state that it should be the highest possible return. This is important. Of course, it is also important that it should be within the so-called moderate risk. There's something in the committee about what's moderate risk. The rapporteur points to the increased share exposure and believes that it may be insecure, and would rather want higher property exposure in the fund's investments. I have to say that the way the world looks at the moment, the way the markets and the world's economics look, you might have to be a little careful about preaching what's best. But despite the international turmoil that we have now had in 2007, it has in a long-term perspective - and that is the way to run this fund - shown that there is reason to be satisfied with the return. There is also reason to note that the management costs of the State pension fund - abroad are low compared to most other large international funds. I would also like to point out that at least the contacts I and our party have had with the Norwegian financial industry say that there is no longer any current policy that they want to be allocated any capital management from Norway's Bank. The message from Norwegian finance management now is: Give us good tools to work internationally, and let's get them fast, so that we can keep track of what's going on outside. This was particularly the case that we dealt with recently, about hedge funds, which probably the industry seemed to have taken too long, but which it was right to get. Back to this with the financial objective: there are actually several places - and I don't think we have to lose sight of it - that the return is important here, because we have responsibility in the future, and it is also important to have the return of the fund. That's why it's good that there's so much excitement about exactly these strategies. There is also full excitement to extend the portfolio to several countries, as well as to increase the ownership limit in some companies from 5 pst. to 10 pst. I'm going to think that when you go a little bit further in developing property investments, you might see that this particular thing about being able to own more than 5 pst. So up to 10 pst. will be more practical. Some words about the ethical guidelines for the management of the State pension fund - Foreign. The most ethical thing about this is what I have now repeated a couple, three times, is that you get the highest possible return for the next generations. Then I would not like to point out that the ethical guidelines were laid down under the Bondevik II government in 2004, and there has been a relatively broad consensus on this part of the State pension fund as well. Clearly, with an increase in the number of new countries, new areas coming in, this work will not be further complicated, but may become more challenging. Work is now under way on new guidelines, which we closely follow on from the Right, and which will be addressed in the United Kingdom in 2009. I would also like to say that it is positive that the Department and the Bank of Norway are now looking at the responsibilities of risk management. These are enormous values, and now that you want to use external audit, we're looking at positive. Let me just say, in conclusion, that the right is in the broad majority here. We find that very responsible in terms of the administrative responsibility and the generational perspective that today's politicians have to establish. We are in a situation where the extraction of oil and high oil prices makes it possible for our generation of politicians to take this responsibility in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1498	This is probably the debate that was lacking in a national assembly around the world envying us. As I pointed out in the previous debate, it is not natural for small Norway to have a fund of approx. NOK 2000 billion in the Norwegian population's common account, managed for continued growth, where annual returns are used as needed in good and bad times, and in view of future generations, where one turns large oil resources into long-term investments, in line with the forward-looking Norwegian politicians did with the hydropower resources beyond 100 years ago - not to the delight of a few, but to the benefit of all citizens, not only in our generation, but in the foreseeable future. Maybe it's this legacy that makes it as massive consensus as the management of this money. It is particularly true that all parties, from SV to Right, throughout the setting - from the assessment of the results achieved, of the challenges, of the strategy for investment, of the view of ethics and ownership - only with small, nuanced deviations have the same assessments. Here, as in some other cases, it is the Progress Party that constitutes the deviation. I can't humiliate myself, I must be allowed to use the same quote that has been used before today. Since the author says it's a good quote, I guess we can hear it one more time. Gjermund Hagesetter said to Today's Business yesterday: ‘I think we should be a little more concerned with the generation now living, rather than future generations. They get more than enough.’ He explains this by: ‘There are no other generations that have saved us, despite the fact that the state has had large revenues from, for example, the silver mines on Kongsberg.’ Well, then one should look at the inheritance. The Danish king of the 1600s was probably not the best example one could use, but they speeded up most of the values. But the district got roads, on Kongsberg we got a fantastic church, we got Norway's first university, we got big imports of well-trained labour, immigrants -- quite white Germans who would have accepted most of them today too -- we got many engineers, lots of new jobs, wealth and good income both to town and built. And we got the legacy that immigrants brought with us, both in knowledge and culture. Today Kongsberg is a thriving city with high technology - in its field leading the world - with a profitability that very few other cities can point to. Good Christian Quart had probably no idea or plan that Kongsberg would evolve like this, but one must know Kongsberg's history poorly if one does not see the direct connection between the technical environment that was built on Kongsberg at the time, and the high-tech environment that is still Kongsberg's hallmark. "There are no other generations that have saved us," says Hagesetter. It's asking you how to rain and count. When I used Kongsberg as an example, it's probably a strange and not very good example. When I used it, it was because Hageseter used it. Kongsberg wasn't a result of a deliberate policy -- it wasn't much of a thought like that 300-400 years ago -- but we don't have to go far back in history to find parallels to the way we've handled the oil adventure and the oil fund -- the state pension fund -- in Norway. For approx. 100 years ago, the project was to exploit the hydropower in Norway, convert waterfalls and waterfalls into energy for industrial and social construction. We had some pioneers, but we lacked capital and expertise. We picked this up from the outside, and it was not missing at the time on offer to buy the foxes and the rights of use for eternity. Today, we know that this is probably the closest thing we can get to eternal money machines. Foresighted politicians understood this, and we got the system of relapses. If one goes to the Progress Party programme, one will see that they are against repatriation, but as far as I have learned now, they have become too repatriated. So maybe we shouldn't ignore that in a period or two we might also have accepted the rule of action. We owe these gentlemen a great thank-you, and the lessons and the foresight we should take with us. It is not difficult to see that this forward-looking management of hydropower was the source of inspiration for the politicians who managed the development of Norwegian oil and Norwegian oil industries in the 1970s. The result? We note that when we, as committees, visit other countries with rich natural resources - the last time we were in Brazil. There they are impressed and glowed at how this is handled in Norway, and they want to learn from us. Gjermund Hagesetter shows in the interview with the Business of the Day what distinguishes the Progress Party from the other parties: egoism: we are not going to share with others, we are not going to share with other countries, we are not going to give to our own children, and we are not going to give to future generations!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1537	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1540	The representative Lund Bergo came with a bit of a tiger against the Progress Party. He gets into it himself, if he can live with himself according to the kind of characteristics of other people -- a third of the choice mass. I live well as an aberrant. The representative of Lund Bergo was very concerned that the Progress Party was alone about yours and alone about your date. Then I would like to remind the representative of Lund Bergo that the Progress Party now has about 30 p.m. termination of the polling activities. The game he himself represents is probably not quite there yet. Well, if we add up the opposition sections, they're also close to 30 pst. We're alone, with a large, large select mass in our back, just so it's clear. And just a comment on saving for the next generation. No, they didn't save to the next generation, they invested in infrastructure. That's the whole point of Gjermund Hageseter, that they invested in infrastructure. Previous generations made these things, and they even fetched assistance from outside, which Lund Bergo was in. I would like to ask Lund Bergo very briefly: what is his view of the governor's comments about the ethical guidelines, that we are guests in other people's houses when we make investments abroad?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1551	I noticed what the governor said, and am surprised that we have a governor who, in my ears, seemed to be a right-wing man.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1556	I thought that the post to the representative Magnar Lund Bergo gave a very good picture of what a sensible policy is. So previous generations have built up values, they've invested, they've even gotten Germans here to build roads, buildings, etc. There is, of course, something that the Progress Party has called for: if we do not have labour in Norway to build infrastructure and roads, we should also consider drawing from abroad. I found that the full contribution to the representative Magnar Lund Bergo shows that it is more sensible to invest for the future than just saving and saving and building up funds for future generations. So it makes more sense to invest for future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1563	I expect that the representative Mr. Hagesetter would not use NOK 2 000 billion to invest in infrastructure in the next few years. It is not that this government does not invest in infrastructure. We spend a lot of money on infrastructure. It is not that we do not pick up labour from outside. In the last few years, we have probably had 200,000 foreigners who have been involved in building a lot of private infrastructure, but also public buildings, hospitals and institutions. It is precisely the good municipal economy and administration that we have that makes such investment possible. There is no contradiction between building infrastructure and saving for the future. But finding the balance here is important, so the way we use the investments, and the pace, doesn't make the economy get too high otherwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1568	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1571	First, I want to say that it's a big plus that we now get this type of annual message that gives a good overview of the past year and the management of the Pension Fund. 2007 was a turbulent year, it also manifests itself in what the government writes in the big news. The return was low, and it naturally reflects the unrest that was, and still is, in the international financial market. Now I would also like to say that based on the long-term objective of the fund, a development in line with that is not very surprising. We note that there is also a loss in the interest rate portfolio in 2007 and in the active government that has happened. Likewise, we also see that the administration that you have had over time has provided the fund with extra income. That's what's important: seeing the situation over time. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we also support both the change in the investment strategy to which the notification refers in respect of property and the lifting of the ownership restriction of investments in foreign listed companies. Otherwise, we notice that what some in the government used to do was ask about the boycott of a country, Israel, with the system we have for the reference index, etc., is now a situation where we have to be able to assume that investment in Israel will increase significantly in the future. If we're going to guess, it might be about investments in a couple of billions of dollars because of the reference index policy to which a majority subscribes. We believe that from the Christian People's Party is happy. We're recording that this is relatively hidden in the message itself, and you can understand from history that when the Minister of Finance comes from the party she actually does. Equally full, it's joyous. Then there has been a long debate today on the ethical guidelines. I have not become any more aware of the actual position of the Progress Party. When I hear Tybring-Gjedde, I guess I actually hear that the ethical guidelines that the funds are running after today shouldn't have been, you should just follow and follow international organisations - no matter what it is - and the guidelines that might come out there. Well, I think we actually have a responsibility to manage this on behalf of the Norwegian people, to assure the Norwegian people that we are not investing in a way that, I think, would be contrary to what a large majority of the population thinks. I also agree with what the fleet said, that we should take that into account when we have a responsibility to ensure - and that is also an ethical responsibility - that the return is as high as possible, but within such a framework in the interests of those who will benefit from the investment in retrospect. The members of the Committee from the Christian People's Party and the Left also ask the Ministry to consider whether involvement in gross corruption has a sufficient focus on ethical work. We record that the fund has not withdrawn from any company for such reasons, while other investors with ethical guidelines have actually done so. On behalf of the Christian People's Party, I am promoting the proposal to exclude investment in tobacco producers from the reference portfolio and investment universes of the State pension fund - abroad. We are promoting this because this is a product that has health consequences, whatever its use, and not least because we see the aggressiveness of international tobacco companies now throwing themselves over developing countries to market their products.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1588	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has drawn up what the proposal referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1591	We are faced with enormous administrative responsibility, as a result of the high rate of extraction in oil and gas so that we release values in a magnitude that never before in the history of our country. State pension funds lost money on their active management for the first time in 2007, as it says in the message. We know that the first quarter of 2008 was also a period when one suffered a significant loss as a result of international instability. There is much greater instability internationally than in the past. There is a commodity shortage that affects businesses and individuals openly and directly, and many talk about it. There are dramatic climate change that has enormous consequences and needs for action from nations for reconstruction. I come straight from the FAO's meeting in Rome, where it turned out that the international food situation is now such that all the UN's Millennium Goals are threatened by starvation, and it is now estimated that a billion people are exposed to a very difficult daily food situation. In this increasingly uncertain world situation, it is difficult to avoid the international financial earthquakes helping to make the management of our huge fund even more demanding. We have a policy based on combining moderate risk with the highest possible return. From the Central Party's point of view, it's probably our basic view that in the situation we're now in, one should place greater emphasis on moderate risk than on the highest possible return. We are therefore, of course, also agreed to what is the Government's policy on property investment, by giving a greater degree of risk spread. With regard to the review of the ethical guidelines, we support it, and we are pleased with the work done by the government, with the finance minister at the head, in that area. It is in practice that, with our modest influence, we can provide an international boost to correct market forces - a certain boost to a more social market economy. After all, it has the Nordic welfare model, our entire Nordic economic policy, a tradition of doing, and I think there are a lot of people who look at us showing it in practice. As many people have experienced, it is very difficult to put it into practice, so you should keep it with you all the time. But it is gratifying that there is such broad consensus about it. As I said again, in the context of the ethical guidelines, the dilemma is the return on taking long-term ethical considerations. Ethics can be so many. It could be Mother Earth, as President of Paraguay said at the meeting in Rome. It could be the ecological context. That's pretty demanding. But this will mean that the more weight one puts on the ethical guidelines -- which is becoming more and more important -- one must be willing to reduce returns and the corresponding earnings, so that one has a balance in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1606	We have one of the world's largest state-owned funds. There is a great deal of international attention to this fund, and Norway is presented as the country that manages the fund in a most reassuring way and with a transparency that other countries are recommended to look to for best practice. We get a lot of international recognition both for the management of the fund and for the ethical guidelines. This means that we are in a better situation than many others, when we are going to manage and market the fund. Now this is what we are doing today, namely having a discussion in the Stortingen about the investment strategy and a separate announcement about the management of the Pension Fund, an important part of how we are anchoring the State pension fund in the Norwegian people. It is we who manage the people's savings on their behalf. That's why we have the great degree of openness. Many believe it is for countries we invest in, or other investors, to have confidence in how we proceed. It's not essentially. It's to make sure that we have a good democratic anchoring of how we do this. But in very many other countries that have equivalent funds, it is unthinkable to discuss this publicly. It is undisputed that annual reports show which companies you have invested in. It is unmistakable that you, for example: publish accordingly the letter of the Ethical Council to the Ministry of Finance. Now they don't have any ethical guidelines, so it's usually not that much to publish. But anyway, we have an extreme degree of openness. That makes most people know what we're doing. It gives trust, also internationally. I have been in a previous debate here today that many people talk about the Pension Fund - and that's right, it's one of the world's largest funds - as if there's a hinterside's wealth gathered in this fund. So it's the value creation combined in the public and private sector over a year, similar to the fact that each of us had had an annual salary in the bank - for a minimum pensioner about. NOK 135 000 in the bank, for one with an average full-time income of approx. NOK 420 000 in the bank. There's a lot of money, it comes along well, but there's no wealth that makes us sit down with our legs on the table and whistle for the next ten years, and otherwise live in a mess. It is the human labour force and what we contribute to the creation of value that is in any case going to be the most important thing in the future. And if we put our wealth over in a short time, it undermines the ability to manage the values of the future. We have now been able to enjoy a very good return on investment in the fund over several years. Significant concerns in international markets contributed to a lower rate of last year’s return than we have experienced in the past, and what we expect. But overall, there was a positive return in the fund last year, even in very turbulent markets. And we must be satisfied with that. It is important that you have a broad portfolio and a good risk spread on the fund. That's really what at all crossroads has been the issue when you've dealt with the investment strategy in the Biggest, how to balance this. However, when large market movements and falls occur in the international markets, when substantial parts of the wealth are linked to the international markets, and they fall, this means that the funds will also fall. But because we have a long-term investment strategy, we have evaluated the mix between returns and risks so last year we increased the share from 40 to 60 pst. This year the Storting treats some changes that are about opening up to invest in real estate - 5 pst. over time. There is an investment share in which it is going to take considerable time to recover. It requires competence in a different area from what we've had up to now, and we need to use time and move forward carefully. It also means that we undertake to include several emerging stock markets in the reference portfolio set by the Ministry of Finance, on which several speakers have been involved, and that means that for the future, we will raise the ownership limit for equity investments from 5 to 10 p.p. To this end -- because it's often stated as evidence that we're not a strategic investor, but a financial investor -- I would say that a 10 pst. limit for each company is a low limit. The average ownership interest is about 1 pst. There's no evidence that we've changed our purpose or our way of acting. It just makes a strong growing fund have a more flexible way of making investments. We have a high ambition for the ethical guidelines connected to the Pension Fund. This too gets a lot of international attention. That's not the way someone gives the impression in the debate, that we're in a special position by thinking this is important. We've been a leading country in this field, but more and more private funds are seeing the relationship between business and ethics. It evolves. That's the way the thinking around ethics goes in the funds. It's just the Progress Party going the other way. The Progress Party was one of the first parties that agreed with SV that we had to have ethical guidelines for the State pension fund. And they were adopted, not only by a majority, but by a unanimous increase, in 2004, including the Progress Party. Then you must not create the impression that these are, as it were, some fixed political ideas that suddenly sink into the Minister of Finance, and that is what governs the ethical guidelines. On the contrary, we have done a very thorough work on how we handle the ethical guidelines. The ownership exercise is located in the Bank of Norway. There are three headings: the first is to secure shareholder rights, so that we have an opportunity to influence. The second is to work to ensure the rights of children and to prevent the most serious forms of child labour. It just means influencing companies, not kicking the kids, and everything's fine, but for example. to cooperate with a community on school provision and to hire parents instead of young people, thus giving families more opportunity to cope. The last thing is to get the companies we're in, not to counter, but to contribute to a new international climate agreement. Furthermore, it is a freely independent ethics board that advises the Ministry of Finance on extracts. There are absolutely certain criteria with which the whole Storting has been agreed. The essence of this discussion is the concept of participation, because it is not about punishing the company for what they have done in the past. It's about our savings not contributing to, or contributing to, gross violations of human rights. So one of the criteria for extraction is weapons that, by their use in general, are inhumans, nuclear weapons, class weapons and landmines. That's why we've pulled out of 20 companies that produce weapons. It was not my decision that we should withdraw the Pension Fund from Lockheed Martin. It was the former Minister of Finance Per-Kristian Foss who decided on 31 August 2005. Since I realize that the heart of Mr. Tybring-Gjedde is close to Lockheed Martin, with the background he has in the Ministry of Defence, it is nice to draw attention to that. In the near future, we will have a consultation note on the ethical guidelines, where we are going to invite broad Norwegian and international environments to join in discussing how we can make them better. It's not because we're dissatisfied with them, but because we aim to be in front of the world. That means they can stand a discussion. That's how we own more than 7,000 companies all over the world, and it's not possible to have the capacity to have individuals sitting and accompanying each of those companies. That's not how the ethical guidelines work either. We are simply dependent on an up-and-coming press, and we rely on non-governmental organisations to tip us off on individual companies if you suspect or fear that they are committing serious violations of our ethical guidelines. Therefore, the high degree of transparency is an investment in ensuring that the ethical guidelines are also well monitored. We should not be afraid that in the meantime there is discussion about individual companies and what they are doing. On the contrary, this is an effective way of getting attention around the companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1644	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1647	First to the Council of State: Yes, I have my heart in Defense. I have the heart for the defence to work and for the defence of the countries around it to work. In order for a defense to work, they actually have to buy something that smacks, and something that kills, and they do that from the companies that produce these weapons. They produce the weapons on behalf of their respective governments, who have imposed this production on them. So it doesn't help to get out of these companies, because they're responsible for this production. You don't sit in dark control rooms and decide to produce components for nuclear weapons. But my question concerns investment in property. The notification states that you can risk not investing in property because you want to demand special rules. AIFMs need to take special environmental considerations and they need to participate in certain groups to fight or something that goes on the environment. It was not described very well in the message. I wonder what these specific requirements are for the administrators, and when it's possible that the government decides that you can't invest in property. On what basis will this be?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1654	What we're asking for today is Storting's agreement that we're going to start investing in property, but we're at the same time preparing The Storing for some challenges. One is the competence to enter an investment portfolio, which we haven't discussed in the past. It requires other types of knowledge. The second is that there are some challenges to how to deal with the ethical guidelines linked to this. These are the two things we have to be able to combine, of course, because we believe that, in the interests of risk-proliferation of the fund's resources, we have been earned to open up this and start to gain experience in the property market.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1659	I expect the Council of State has come to realize that both in the form of a note and in the debate today, the Progress Party has pushed the President of the Central Bank to his chest and referred to from his annual meeting in February this year. This is especially true of this sentence: ‘we are guests in the house of our neighbours’. In that case, according to the Progress Party, only the laws and regulations in force in the country in question must be complied with, as was the case with the Governor. I see it a little bit different. When we invest, we become joint owners. Then we're no longer guests. Then we are responsible, also for the company we invest in. That's why we have the ethical guidelines to prevent us from doing something that we absolutely shouldn't. I would like to hear from the Council of State whether she agrees with this statement on ‘guests in our neighbours’ house’, or does she actually believe that we are partners and have to take responsibility as such?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1668	I don't think this is a good picture from the governor. I think the representative Syversen's image is much better. We're not guests in the neighbor's house, we're partners in the neighbor's house, i.e. The neighbor is renting with us, and then we have some guidelines on how we operate our rental. If we transfer it to the private sector, we could, for example, transfer it to the private sector. say that it is not allowed to beat the wife under our roof. So Norges Bank, who exercises ownership, knocks on the door and says, "Hello, you have to stop beating your wife." If the tenant says yes, now we're going to improve, there's going to be completely different balls for the future, we've achieved something. Then there'll be less violence. If the tenant says no, you don't have anything to do with it, I'm going to keep going, we're saying, "There's a breach of our rules, out with you! At least we do not help to give the person a roof over his head while he practices something that we believe is unethical. We use the ownership we have to influence the world to become a little bit better. It's not being rude in the neighbor's house. It's using people's savings in a way that helps make the world a little better place.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1677	The big message, on page 23, says the following: ‘The Ministry recommends that the mandate for investment in property requires that AIFMs be actively involved in the international development of specific environmental considerations.’;» And it goes on to say, because of this, you can risk not finding good enough administrators, and you might not make a decision about investment in property at all. My question to the Council of State is this: what is the intention of an administrator to take an active part in the international development of specific environmental considerations? And which administrators are doing it today?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1689	This is what many administrators are going to do in the future, because this is going on all over the world, that is, demanding how property should be designed, let's say how warming happens, what kind of materials you have, how long life/duration, etc. Of course, we are looking for through the way we invest, through those we ask to invest on our behalf, to help them to develop best practices on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1694	I want to find out a little bit more about this, if you're a guest in the neighbor's house, or if you're a co-owner. Then my question is, is this also true if there are foreigners investing in Norway? If an American hotel chain that establishes itself in Norway, some terms that are natural based on American law and American culture - for example. is a much more critical to trade organization among those added in Norway at the American hotel - what about it? Should one then comply with Norwegian laws, or is one of the co-owners of this house able to make demands based on what is common in American culture and American law?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1699	It is not that, through our ownership, we encourage violations of the laws of each country, but you can set higher ethical standards on how to invest your savings. Of course, it is not the case that non-resident investors in Norwegian companies can work for or commit crimes in terms of how to invest. That's what's so very nice about savings, there's no one telling you to invest them in single companies either. So here we are completely free, unlike in a lot of areas where we get into some ethical dilemmas in some places, for example. know that we are acting from a company that we have excluded ourselves. Then we have to deal with other types of rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1706	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1709	Sitting on Stortinget is responsible. We are all shown confidence through elections to make important decisions that intervene in people's lives, and that of a different nature. Some of our decisions are easy to grasp both the consequences and the scope of, others are not. The management of the State pension fund requires us to take our responsibility seriously, while it may be difficult for everyone to make the political choices, since we first see the consequences of them once in the future. We should be humiliating to everyone. Everyone in the finance committee, but also many of us sitting there, is constantly meeting elected, economists or others from all over the world who are curious and curious about how we manage our oil wealth. We respond to the best of our ability, including our role as elected representatives, as the Minister of Finance recently did. Even I am increasingly being turned off by the enormous responsibility of our generation of politicians in Norway to manage these values sensibly. The last estimate shows that the fund is worth $2,316 billion. So much money is very demanding to handle -- both it's managing and deciding how much we're going to save, and how much we're going to spend. My father-in-law was a wise man, and he was conservative when it came to money. He started with two empty hands, but died reasonably prosperous. He was generally skeptical about high consumption, so as income increased, he invested, especially in property, but also in shares and securities. He suffered no need for that reason. But he never hid who he had in mind. It was his own granddaughter. It's obviously a completely different philosophy than what the Progress Party stands for. Here I come back to the much-mentioned quote from the Business of the Day. I choose to interpret Gjermund Hagesetter's play so that he wants us to live a good life today. And I think we'll agree on that. Of course, we should live well, which we do in Norway, and which my father-in-law did, even though he saved money. But this discussion is about something more. It's about how much we're going to spend now, and how much we're going to save for later. Then I have attached myself especially to the following part of the quote: ‘They get more than enough.’ I'm not so sure. I'm not so sure that those who come after us will get more than enough - with future pension commitments, rising expectations in general, greater demands for innovation and research and education due to the increasingly demanding competitive situation in the globalised world, continued violent technological and costly development in the health sector plus all conceivable infrastructure measures, including high-speed trains, on which expectations are coming, combined with an almost increased willingness to pay more in taxes or charges. Well, every politician who comes after us will need every penny they get in return from the oil fund every year. To clear up the completely unthinkable, as the Progress Party seems to want, stands far from the precise investment path that previously stood for, and that I have a great sense of. The rest of my contribution will be spent on the fuss that a liberalist party that continues to celebrate free competition is in favour of a planned economic enterprise policy for the management of the pension fund. Managing values is a profession that requires professional competence. The best thing is to find the cheapest administrator that makes the highest return. Then we must have free competition. As long as it gives better returns, it's good, even if there's an American living in New York or a Spaniard working from London. If there's more money for our pensions in the future, we've achieved our main goal. The political decision to make the management of the oil fund by the Nordics is in line with the proposal that we, as politicians, decide to have Norwegian-produced flat screens or all our clothes south of Norway. Capital is no commodity, has the representative Tybring-Gjedde said during the day. Capital is money. It is a means of exchange used to invest, buy and sell raw materials, processed goods and services. Countries that have honestly opted for capital management have done so by being good and effective on framework conditions. Ireland is such an example. The country does not have much capital, rather on the contrary, but they decided to manage Europe's capital by providing good framework conditions, which in this context are ahead of the development of the rules. The boundaries between countries are in the process of expanding, including in this sector. Norwegian capital managers themselves must take responsibility for attracting capital in competition with other capital managers. My impression is that the industry is doing it. Norwegian fund managers do a good job, and the customers they have provided through their own ability to compete freely with foreign administrators are many. The paradox in this debate is that in this case the Progress Party, which generally celebrates free competition, argues for planned economic solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1741	It is important to have a little perspective in this debate. Our oil wealth makes us an incredibly privileged nation. At the same time, our wealth confronts us with great challenges and obligations. We politicians have obligations to all the citizens of the country, but also to future generations and to people in other parts of the world. Petroleum wealth has become much bigger than anyone expected. This contributes to the debate on how we manage our savings in the State pension fund being a very important debate, a debate that should not be influenced by populism and short-term thinking. The Government's objective is that the State pension fund should be the world's best managed fund. It has to do with our obligations to our children and our grandchildren, because it will ensure that future generations will benefit as much as possible from our saved capital and thus contribute to securing our welfare society in the future as well. The ethical guidelines to which the Fund is subject are a consequence of our commitments to people living in countries where the Fund invests. The return on the State pension fund will naturally fluctuate from year to year. This is unproblematic, because this is about long-term saving. By accepting that returns vary considerably in the short term, we can achieve better returns in the long term. The objective of the Pension Fund being the world's best managed fund is both a expectation of the level of management costs and of the fund's return. In the case of the fund’s return, the so-called reference portfolio is used as a basis for comparison. In 2007, the State pension fund - Foreign for the first time since 1998 was below the preference. We can live with that. The return on the State pension fund - Norway was, on its part, higher than the return on the reference portfolio. In the case of administrative costs, an upper limit has been set for these, measured as a proportion of the fund's market value. This limit is set on the basis of the cost of managing funds of equivalent size. Administrative costs increased slightly from 2006 to 2007, but remain well below the ceiling. To achieve our goal of making the Pension Fund the best managed fund, we need to choose the very best administrators to do the job. Whether these administrators sit in Oslo, London, New York, or Singapore is of little importance. I have registered that the Progress Party is committed to using the State pension fund as a tool to establish a capital management environment in Norway. Of course, we are positive that such environments are being built here on land, but this must happen in the event that the Norwegian environment is able to attract and develop the necessary skills in competition with others, and not as a result of a political decision. In my view, the proposals of the Progress Party involve some form of subsidisation and are likely to lead to lower expected returns and higher management costs. Even small differences in the rate of return could amount to large amounts over time due to the size of the fund. The result may quickly become higher taxes or less money for the welfare of future generations. Finally, I would like to say that I am pleased that Stortinget is so united in the view of how the State pension fund should be managed. This is one of the most important issues that politicians address, with great implications both for today's population and for those who come after us. Thanks to this broad consensus, we have so far been able to achieve something that other countries in the same situation have not been able to do, namely take care of and manage the huge natural resources in a sensible way. I also record in this case – as in a number of other important issues – that the Progress Party is alone on many points.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1769	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3698]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1785	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3699]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1801	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3699]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1817	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1826	This Document No The 8-proposal by Mr Karin S. Woldseth, Mr Ulf Erik Knudsen and Mr Kåre Fostervold, on the non-legislative treatment of children in private and public kindergartens is endorsed by all opposition parties in the Committee. Both the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left are some of those who propose that there be structural discrimination against children in private kindergartens, which means that the private kindergartens have a poorer economy, and that the childcare facilities there are not as good. There have been many discussions about the framework conditions for private kindergartens. We know that for many of the private kindergartens, the economy is a challenge, because they don't have as good a framework as the public. Since the Committee gave its opinion, the Government has made an odelstingsproposition on the financing of non-municipal kindergartens, Ot.prp. No 57 for 2007-2008. The Committee will come back to these issues, and I expect that there will be a more thorough debate on the issues related to private childcare. The Christian People's Party is very concerned about the situation of many of the private kindergartens. I'm not happy with what the government has come with, and I had hoped that the whole committee would have joined the proposal. We haven't gone into all the details about it, but I expect that the committee will come back to a thorough debate on this topic in the autumn, because there are very important problem options. I take up the proposal from the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1837	The representative May-Helen Molvær Grimstad has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1840	Today’s funding of the non-municipal kindergartens is based on the 2003 Childcare Agreement. It was decided that municipalities have an obligation to grant grants to the non-municipal kindergartens. But it's quite obvious that the kindergarten sector is very intractable. There are complex calculation methods for the payment of municipal grants and different funding of the various kindergartens, depending on whether they are established before or after 2003. It is 2003 that has been used as a basis for calculation, making some of the non-municipal kindergartens very unlucky. That's why we also get a very different financial situation in the private kindergartens. Some private non-communal kindergartens are very well run, have a good economy, are doing well and offer a great deal to the children. But then there's someone who doesn't drive so well, and who wears a lot more. We know that not at least some of the small kindergartens have problems. We have seen trends in recent years that large commercial players are entering the field and are evidently making huge money in the sector. It tells us that the situation in this sector cracks in all directions. I just want to say for myself and for the Workers' Party that we have no preconditions for making a decision on how the funding base for the non-municipal kindergartens should look like in the future, how we are going to distribute the money. This is why the Government has now started work on identifying the cost differences between the municipal and non-municipal kindergartens. That mapping will be completed until the harvest. In addition, the Government, as also the representative of Molvær Grimstad, has now put forward a proposal to include the grants to kindergartens in the framework grants to municipalities from 1 January 2011. This will be treated until the autumn. I imagine that we will have a thorough review of the situation of the non-communal kindergartens and how we will deal with the objective of equal treatment of kindergartens. And then finally, I just want to add that in the Soria Moria statement, we've said that we're going to work for equal pay and employment for employees in the private and municipal kindergartens. How we will conclude in that area will also depend on the level of costs and the comparison between the municipal and non-municipal kindergartens. This is coming to the autumn. What conclusions we draw there is a need for the Committee to come back to when, in the autumn, we are discussing the Odelstungsproposition on the inclusion of the grants to kindergartens in the framework funding for municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1851	This is a matter that is particularly important in the light of other proposals that we are working on in relation to the kindergarten sector, for example. the question of the future obligations of municipalities for equal treatment of kindergartens. We have several times called for a system with a regulation or a guideline that will ensure non-discrimination - and then we mean a real non-discrimination. For the Right, this means a municipal price scheme for municipal and private kindergartens. When we specifically ask for it in this context, it is linked to our deep concern about what will happen to the private kindergartens on the day of full child care coverage and the individual municipalities are free to make priorities between the public and the private. We are afraid that this will lead to the private squabbling, and that in the competition for children it will be the public that draws the longest straw - across what is constantly being signalled from the Government, namely the requirement of non-discrimination. I want to quote what the Council of State said in a previous debate. That's where he says it's been. «very necessary with both public and private kindergartens, and it will be in the future as well. We need a variety of offers. We need both the public and the private. He goes on to say: ‘The objective of the Soria Moria Declaration to ensure adequate and predictable funding for the non-municipal actors in the kindergarten sector will, of course, also be the basis for the new scheme.’ In relation to how the matter of how the framework conditions are to be resolved otherwise, he says: ‘I’m going to put a lot of emphasis on what the hearing aids say.’ Our impression is that this weight has not been very heavy, and that the appetite for a real equal treatment is very small. We get back to this by later crossroads, as the case-rapporteur said, but the Right signal is that we think the Government is double communicating on the question of whether you want private kindergartens. We are sitting with a distressing feeling that this double communication is about the fact that the private kindergartens are needed now to fulfill the performance project no. 1, i.e. getting full babysitting. We believe that the desire for the private actors will be much less present on the day the babysitting is at a satisfactory level and there will be competition for the children. This is just like a signal. We agree with the proposal made by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1877	Without the private childcare facilities, we don't reach the goal of full child care coverage. The private kindergartens are the mainstay of the kindergarten sector in many small municipalities and rural communities. Our goal is to create as good a kindergarten as possible for the young, and it has applied non-discrimination. Equally, we should focus on working for equal pay and working conditions and pension rights for adding to public and private kindergartens. Now the government is working on bombs to achieve the goals of the Soria Moria Declaration. They're working on a big, collect package that deals with purposes, funding and the whole law around the nursery. We will come back to this at a later date. Private kindergartens are important in the broad context. Private kindergartens are a major failure, and the new organisation of the nursery sector must be taken into account. For example, there is a great difference between kindergartens run by parents, voluntary organisations, well-beings, etc. and the kindergarten group who has made kindergarten a business. I think we should have room for everyone, but at the same time the review of the sector also clarifies how much exchange it should be allowed to take out of kindergarten. Private and public kindergartens shall not only be treated equally, they shall also operate in such a way as to offer equal opportunities to young people and to offer equal conditions. That must be the goal, and so the government is doing well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1890	Private nursery facilities are an important part of the provision of childcare facilities in Norway. Now we've done a few steps again before we're in full kindergarten coverage. We've had good moves from the privates. Yes, we are totally dependent on both good municipal and non-municipal, private kindergartens in Norway now and beyond. I would like to stress that the State does not in any way engage in a fight for economic discrimination against private and municipal kindergartens. On the contrary, I think we have gone a long way in ensuring that all kindergartens have good operating conditions. SV took the initiative in the kindergarten agreement concluded in 2003 between all parties on the Stortinget, except the Coastal Party. It provided the basis for the funding system we have today - a system that has given private kindergartens the right to more state funding than they had before. First, the state support for private kindergartens was increased. In order to keep track of the other municipalities, they were obliged to give way to private kindergartens. I mean it shows that we've stretched out to have a good system. A system was selected that provides full cost coverage for private children. The kindergartens that have a low cost get a minimum of 85 pst. of the municipal kindergartens receive public support and one can receive up to 100 pst. Local authorities have also received significant increases in transfers to implement the rules. The privileges of economically equivalent treatment for private and municipal kindergartens were otherwise determined by the previous government, which was composed of the Left, Right and Christian People's Party. There is no doubt that today’s funding system requires a lot of time and resources at all stages. Late payment of bonuses creates problems for kindergartens, and that's not a desirable situation. Therefore, in the last two years, we have encouraged the municipalities to pay the advances quickly and assess advance payments if the proceedings were delayed. The government is now known for adding the eartaged children's garden tips to the 2011 municipal council. In connection with that, we are forced to create a far-reaching and sustainable good system for both municipal and private kindergartens. We need to be aware that the local services should be known in advance for the private kindergartens, and that one should have considerable time to get inside them and look at them locally. In order to maintain liquidity, the government has recommended that the municipalities pay off in advance. It will be necessary to discuss this further, and I look forward to having the discussion on the matter that is now in Stortinget, and to going thoroughly into how to create a good and prudent system for both municipal and private kindergartens. Then we have a particularly big challenge, and that's pay and work conditions. The government is still working on the objectives of the Soria Moria Declaration that there should be equivalent pay and employment conditions for the addition of children in private and municipal kindergartens. The Ministry of Knowledge has launched a study to identify cost differences between municipal and non-municipal kindergartens, in order to further assess work with equivalent pay and working conditions. This government has clear objectives for kindergartens and jobs in the long term to create a good framework for the kindergarten sector, whether it be private or municipal kindergartens. We now need to put in place the pillars of a system that provides good conditions for private kindergartens in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1909	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3699]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1925	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1934	I notice that the Council of State is not in the Chamber now, but it is not uncommon for the Advancement Party to speak for deaf councillors--I'll start anyway. There's a new day today, with new opportunities -- after a relatively hectic day yesterday. Today, we are considering a proposal from the representatives of Molvær Grimstad, Syversen, Sørfonn and Holten Hemdal on the assessment of VAT exemptions for non-governmental organisations. There is an overall committee that believes that the voluntary sector plays a very important role in today’s society. They make a formidable effort both for the big community and for individuals. Therefore, it is important that they are safeguarded and provided with a framework as predictable as possible both in terms of human resources and economics. Here, too, the consensus with the government parties is stopped, and our paths are separated. The views of the government parties will probably be presented by one of their representatives, so I will go over to explain the views of the minority. When the government parties referred to the Public Committee on VAT in the field of culture and sport, before deciding on the type of legislation that they wanted, it is clear that it creates confusion. When the Minister of Finance later stated that the sample did not have a mandate to pay VAT, service taxes etc., as the Cultural VAT Committee also concluded, there is even more confusion. So once again, the government has created expectations without fulfilling them. And if they think that people are simple-minded, I actually think the government has to believe again. So they have suggested that you deliver on health. You haven't. They have suggested that we deliver on defence. You haven't done that either. They have suggested delivering on transportation. You don't have a delivery there either. And they investigate and investigate, but conclude very rarely. The Soria Moria Declaration states that the Government will: «examine the possibility of a permanent system of VAT compensation for non-governmental organisations». This has not been done, despite the fact that the Government has had the opportunity to do so a number of times both in the voluntary service and in the Committee on Culture. That's why the proposers now give the government a golden opportunity to follow up their promises from Soria Moria, but once again you turn away and tell them that an investigation is going on. When the government parties then refer to the revised national budget, which states that ‘the setting of the Committee on Culture is an important part of the government’s background in assessing the issue of zero and non-volatile organisations’, - yes, then the co-media will be perfect. The Committee on Culture does not have a mandate. Then it is strange that what the Committee on Culture and Culture is presenting, since they have no mandate, should be used as a background for the Government's assessments. The fact that the government parties are satisfied with this suggests that they are not particularly keen to assess or to grant VAT exemptions to voluntary teams and organisations. Ten times this issue has been discussed, and one has to investigate. You've given zero. Ten times zero is as said zero. And we still don't see results, despite the fact that the government parties are now giving a golden opportunity to make something concrete on the basis of this proposal, but it doesn't seem to be happening. With this, I address the proposal of the minority in the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1965	The representative Karin S. Woldseth has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1968	The proposal is about wanting a settlement, and the proposal from the Christian People's Party is a new attempt to get on the offensive in an area where one might feel a little 'on the heel'. But this is not new. The proposal does not really do anything to or from voluntary organisations. The suggestion can't really look like anything else but it's looking up already open doors. I am pleased that the Government is doing a thorough job of improving the conditions for voluntary organisations and for the voluntary sector. We have not long been discussing a new voluntary service, with a number of measures to improve the conditions for voluntary work. We have for some time agreed on the creation of a voluntary register, of which the volunteers have been busy. That register is soon up and going. We have made changes to the game policy that combines the concern to work against gambling addiction, and the fact that voluntary work depends on a careful situation and income. We've had an own cultural VAT selection in work, and their proposals are listening today. And not least, we have seen in the annual budgets that we are investing in voluntary work, where one has gone from cutting and cutting in the previous period to growth and construction in this period. I feel confident that it will continue in the future. The government now has the Culture VAT selection's out-of-hearing settings. It has been made very clear and clear that the Government is going to decide both the setting from the selection and the audio recording in the further work. I'm not going to advance the hearing response, but I think I have some idea of what part of the recordings are going to be about. The revised national budget clearly shows that zero rates are assessed by the Government when one is to follow up the Cultural VAT selection’s setting. The changes you make should be presented in the annual budgets. In the Workers' Party, together with the other government parties, we have been busy getting a permanent system of VAT compensation for the voluntary sector. The work that has now been done has been important, and I am sure that one in the follow-up to the Culture and Audiovisual Committee will move forward with new steps, and that the zero rate will be assessed, as the Prime Minister and the Government have said, and as it appears in the revised national budget. It could be tempting to reject the entire proposal from the Christian People's Party, simply because it feels redundant. However, when the government is doing well with what the proposers are concerned about, it is perhaps most right, which is the proposal for a decision in the vote, that it be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e1985	The government has several times given the impression that they will come back to the question of VAT exemption or zero rate for voluntary activities. The voluntary sector itself has been open to different models, including: extending the compensation scheme for service VAT to compensation for VAT on goods. The main point must be that the voluntary sector is compensated for the untimely consequences of today's legislation, but there are currently no fundamental clarifications from the Government. Therefore, one feels that this is a matter that the Government deliberately dragged out. The Soria Moria Declaration states that the Government will ‘assess the possibility of a permanent system of VAT compensation for voluntary organisations’, and the voluntary notification warned that the Government would come back to this after the Culture VAT selection had come to an end. Both in 2007 and 2008 at the Freelance Conference of Norway’s Senior Leadership Conference, the Prime Minister contributed to increasing expectations for clarification. However, while the work of the Committee on Culture was taking place, it was found that the selection had no mandate to assess neither zero rate nor full VAT compensation for voluntary activities, which was also confirmed by the Minister of Finance on direct questions from the signatures in the autumn 2007 Question Time. I realize that volunteering felt tricked. Here the government had repeatedly referred to the work of the Culture VAT Selection when it came to questions of zero rate, full compensation or general exemption. Then it turned out that this is beyond the mandate of the selection to consider. When the volunteer message was addressed in the autumn of 2007, the Christian People's Party proposed that the Government should present a case of its own, in which both service VAT, VAT rates and VAT zero rates were assessed for voluntary teams and organisations. We thought it was necessary to deal with this as a matter of our own when the government decided not to take a decision on the issue. An overall opposition supported the requirement, while the government party was opposed. But I had hoped that the Government would support this proposal, which showed that a need for more detailed spending on the budget to be submitted. What's most surprising is that the Center Party, which has programmed things linked to zero VAT rates, is not included in the proposal, and which in many debates has flagged a stand when it comes to VAT compensation and zero rate for voluntary teams and organizations, has not helped to obtain a concrete solution to this or to go in favour of the proposal that is being voted on today. There could be a lot of talk about how much VAT is for voluntary teams and organisations. Let me give you one example: for the country's 1,700 Corps, VAT is almost 60 million. kr per year. We know that voluntary teams and organisations do important work, and it is important to look at what action can be taken to provide the best possible framework conditions. The Christian People's Party wants voluntary activities to retain more of their own income. That's why we have, among other things, proposed raising the ceiling on the amount of the tax deduction scheme for gifts to voluntary organisations. We have proposed to increase the amount limit for payroll and employer fees. In addition, we have proposed to increase the savings bank's ability to make surpluses available to non-profit-making donors. This is an example of important measures that can strengthen the income base of voluntary activities. I'm now expecting a step forward in VAT cases, so that we can do something about the voluntary tax. I hope that the answer isn't that this is to be done and worked out, but that the Storting can get a concrete case back, and that one looks at what one can do in the future, instead of what a traditional user does from this government, to talk about everything that wasn't suggested, and why things weren't suggested while we were in government. Many of them were arrested at the time. But now this government has its seat for three years, and it is important to get concrete results in the future. Therefore, I am interested that we can jointly find good and sensible solutions, so that we can ensure a good policy for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e2004	By this crossroads, I shall confine myself to joining in the description presented by the case rapporteur and representative Molvær Grimstad, which is at least the most important points. There is a broad political consensus that we need to do something about VAT, but I think it is also a recognition that volunteering is a large and complex field, and that it is necessary to have a proper investigation of this before deciding on the individual areas. So here it's really more a question of what patience you're willing to add to the bowl, and I'm joining the other opposition parties, how much impatience is. So I really hope that at the next crossroads, which is the budget for the autumn, we can get a chance to get hold of this and hit holes on the bend that has been there in many ways in terms of VAT assessment and volunteering. It has been a bit tough to get holes on. It's high time we took the breath and got it done and got cleaned up in relation to volunteering.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e2009	Volunteering is a major sector. It's only in the last few years that one has started to refer to the sector as a sector, but he has an important function in society, as the case-speaker was in his post. There is also no point for the Government, at least not as long as the Central Party is in government, for the public to take over the great and important job of volunteering at many levels. The case handler was very busy criticising the rule for overexploiting. I thought it was a little special, as long as the Progress Party supports the proposal, which actually contains a proposal to get out more. Now you've got something worked out, and you've worked a lot with this so far. But this is new work, and it is more demanding than what we believed when we started this work. We've come a bit to get the volunteer message, which was a lot of work. We've put in place the volunteer register, or it's about to get in place-- it's at least settled in this room. So I'm going to say that the government has already done a lot for volunteering, but it's true that there are big and important questions that remain. The centre party still has ambitions to move forward and be able to conclude on this issue in the current period, at least to get a race to continue. I know that the Government is working on matters at several levels, and I hope that the Council of State will get a little more into it in its article.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e2020	As all major issues in Norway often do, this is covered by tax and VAT rules. But I'm taking the word because I'm a little bit concerned with the concepts. So here we're talking about what is in English called the civil society, and in Norwegian it's called the associations that make common commitments between people because people want it and want it, and that's the glue that makes us have a society, and that's the society that makes us have a state. It is not that the volunteer should live because the state looks upon them in mercy, it is that the legitimacy of the state presupposes that there is a living society of citizens, voluntary associations, carrying the whole community. It is this community through voluntary life - the civil society - which the Committee is concerned with here - that there is reason to develop. When I take the floor, it's not because I don't think most people who have the word here will be concerned about finding good solutions. But I'm worried because we're getting more and more employees in the state and local government that don't understand this phenomenon. They perceive the phenomenon of voluntary action as something that matters if it is beneficial for some purpose. In particular, if it can also be checked on a municipal activity plan, the value added will increase. But the whole voluntary life exists in terms of the benefits it sees in itself, and it's through the utility it also creates something more for many people. This conceptual cleanup is very important. When I'm distrustful, because this doesn't follow party dividing lines, I tend to have a psychic colloquial group with my old social-democratic friend Bernt Bull, because we have it in common that we haven't seen the need to take state science to understand what volunteering is. We've lived in it, and we live in it. I keep this post because I am very concerned that the Council of State, which has considerable powers to understand these cancers, takes hold of it, so that you give this handshake in a clear and proper way, as the proposal is about. But there won't be any pressure on this without describing the voluntary life by itself. And when I think about the non-governmental organisations that I've been a member of, I'd get a lot of money if I were to be given my value because I meant something on a municipal business plan. In fact, I have not acted either as a member of non-governmental organizations or as a left-wing person for the sake of accepting that kind of thinking-- I'm becoming a rebel of it. And I've done a rebel act as the Council of State in a previous part of my life. I put the Lottery Authority to a part of Norway where you don't have to have state science to understand what voluntary life is -- I added it to Førde. There's the activity around so much living that you don't have to have state science to understand what volunteer activity is. In other parts of Norway, you have to enter flea markets to understand what it is. It's great with flea markets, and there's a lot of wonderful happening around it. But my concern is that in the public systems, you get an increasing flow of good people who have a theoretical relationship with what we're talking about here, and when you use theoretical relationships with Norwegian VAT rules and tax rules around the force I'm talking about, it might be that the well-meaning theory takes on what you're meant to be. This was a witness in favor of civil life. I'll end it so that I've met it in its richest editions, which the Council of State, Gisk, will be familiar with from previous statements. I have met the religious social democracy at a time when, as he said, the Council of State was barely born. But it was vital and alive, it didn't exist through business plans, and it was a joy to fight with it. We knew what we disagreed about, we knew what we were up against, and we knew what the roots and sources were. These roots aren't maiming, but there's reason to really take care of them around us. So the impatience that I feel lies in the proposal that is promoted here, and that was taken up, goes on just to solve such a practical question as predictability of these big cash flows, to make sure that people can live a good and real life, take care of what they believe, and make effort based on what they believe in. This is still the case in Norway, incredibly and happily, that there are very many people living in this tradition. It's an primal force in our society that I hope that, across the inherent weight and power of the systems, it's still a will to take care of. And you have to be a bit of a system rebel, whether you're red-green or you're green like me, to take care of this community. With this tribute to the voluntary life I hope that there may be some pressure in the next advance from the Council of State to assist so that this life lives a good and healthy life without artificial breathing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e2035	That people in this room, across the party boundaries, have a burning commitment to volunteering, I'm not in any doubt about it. I don't think there's one person who's come to the Storting without spending days, weekends, evenings, months and holidays on voluntary unpaid work in party organizations, in various youth organisations, in civil society, in the church, in the trade movement and in many other popular organizations. This is how most people in Norwegian policy are recruited - fortunately - and through it we each have a very good knowledge of the voluntary sector. That's good, because that means that it's an commitment that the many hundreds of thousands who are active and living in volunteering get our support for getting even better framework conditions. The review of the VAT Regulation is one of those framework conditions. The Committee on Culture, which, under the Ministry of Finance, gave its opinion in February of this year, addressed the challenges of a part of Norway’s voluntary nature in terms of VAT. What they were looking at in the first place were those organisations and activities which can be relatively easily integrated into a VAT system with a low VAT rate and thus get a full deduction from VAT. In total, I think the selection proposal involves a tax bill of half a billion kroner. There's a lot of money per person. years of voluntary activity. It will be one of the greatest promises ever if it is implemented. But even these proposals, we see resistance from some, because they see that they then receive VAT on the service they provide, while they do not receive in full the deductions that the VAT Committee has applied to them, or there is a distortion in the fact that someone gets a large deduction, while others do not. That is why such proposals must be consulted thoroughly. We need to listen to all the individual organisations and environments working on this, to know what actually matters to them, and how these proposals turn out. We simply need more knowledge of the economy of voluntary teams and organisations in order to assess the impact of VAT on the economy and how to make it possible to maximise voluntary activities. We have therefore started a survey of the revenue and expenditure of non-governmental organisations, with particular attention being paid to the small organisations that do not benefit from the proposals that have been examined by the sample. The results of that survey will be an important basis for a permanent system of VAT compensation for the voluntary sector. So the reason why the government parties do not support this opposition proposal is that it is unnecessary. We're working on this. I guess no government ever has done as much for volunteering as it does for the present, partly with great resistance from the opposition. We have provided full compensation for the loss of automatic revenues, in violation of the document the previous government presented in the autumn of 2005, the state budget for 2006, where it was said that there was no reason to introduce this compensation because there had been so much extra revenue from the vending machines in the years before - as if some voluntary organisations could live on it. Now we're going to spend SEK 1.4 billion this year and next year to compensate the volunteer organizations, and from 2010 volunteering will receive DKK 1 billion a year from Norwegian Typing thanks to the game reform, which some opposition parties have also fought with beaks and claws. Next year we will introduce the ‘grass root fraction’, which will lead half a billion dollars annually to local teams and organisations. All opposition parties were, as far as I remember, against the 'grass root fraction' when we dealt with this matter here in the Chamber. The Register of Volunteers is in place, which is also a prerequisite for the ‘grass root fraction’, but is primarily an important factor in reducing the bureaucracy of voluntary activity, including with the resistance of this room. The Free Fund scheme has been considerably strengthened. There it was cut in the last period with the government and the majority that was then, including support from the Progress Party. We have introduced tax incentives for volunteering as of this year, and we have introduced an easy one in the employer's fee by raising the rates for how much employer's fee you can pay before you get into that system. We have introduced the collection control, which is to the delight of those organisations that operate seriously - again with resistance from this room. So I probably have eight or ten examples of important things that we've done in collaboration with and with the support of volunteering, and where the opposition in this room has been opposed. I think, therefore, volunteering is quite happy that we have the government that we actually have.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e2050	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e2054	The Council of State says this is a completely unnecessary proposal because the work on it is already in progress. Then I just have to say that then it is certainly unnecessary to stand outside as well. However, I intend to ask the Council of State something: How has the Council of State intended to use the Committee on Culture as a background material when - and I have read the great inauguration of the Committee on Culture - the Committee on Culture said that they had no mandate to look at issues relating to VAT compensation for voluntary organisations?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e2061	It is not particularly common in Stortinget that government parties need to impose their own government on one or the other investigation, especially when the government apparatus is already in the process of doing the things mentioned. There are more demonstration proposals from the opposition that have tradition of doing so. We're not just going to use this VAT sample in the work that Woldseth is talking about. It's part of the volunteer that's covered by it, and it's those who have income potential, that's a sales machine that allows you to get a solid deduction by entering the VAT system. A good part of the VAT expenditure on voluntary activities is not covered, so there is another work to be done to identify revenue and expenditure. We've also said in the voluntary notice that we're going to make a satellite accounting for the voluntary sector that can give us a full overview of what volunteering means for the economy, and that's what we're doing. In the light of these things, it is possible to design a VAT system or a reimbursement system that will make voluntary work even better than they have now, despite all the improvements we have already made to volunteer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e2070	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Fotation, see page 3699]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e2080	Storting goes to voting on the issues on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e2136	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-5, by Mr Tybring-Gjedde, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on proposal No. 6, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e2161	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-5, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e2206	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e2211	You should have voted for it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e2214	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e2220	Then the number of votes is 79 against the proposal and 24 votes in favour. The proposal is therefore not accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e2271	During the debate May-Helen Molvær Grimstad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose amendments to the Kindergarten Act in order to ensure real non-discrimination between public and private actors.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e2299	During the debate, Mr S. Woldseth put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to assess how the voluntary sector can be compensated for the financial burden on voluntary teams and organisations resulting from the payment of the in-depth VAT, and to provide a preliminary assessment of this in the context of the submission of the 2009 government budget.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12.ana.ud2427e2330	There is no record. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled. The meeting of the Odelsting will be set at 9.30 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
