ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-25-upper.ana.ud99e24	The called alternate of the Rogaland County, Siri A. Meling, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-25-upper.ana.ud99e55	I want to put forward the proposal that has been distributed, and regret the late submission. I sat in the home office yesterday and thought that I could fix this today, and then I didn't think of a deadline. I am sorry that the proposal has arrived a little late, but I hope it can be addressed to voting anyway. In my opinion, the decision taken here from Odelstinget is, in principle, very wrong. This is a matter I've had a lot of commitment for a long time. That's why I don't want to let it through without highlighting my principled attitude to the question. That is the background to this proposal. Water and waterfalls are impossible to physically move out of the country. I must say it is with some wonder that I have therefore seen that the debate focus has become around national control and the community's ownership. National control should be ensured through fiscal systems, general laws and regulations and - as proposed by the minority - through State pre-emptive purchasing rights. Then you have national control of the resource. The principal interesting thing after that is how to ensure optimal use of resources. In order to ensure optimum use of resources, there is a great need for diversity, in my opinion. There is diversity on the ownership side, diversity in business strategies, and diversity in management environments. It's a resource where we already have 88 pst. public ownership. In my opinion, you are already far above the point where public ownership is too large and dominant. Odelsting's decisions go in the opposite direction to creating diversity. Private operators shall be expelled from the power industry. This will damage Norway in the long term. Fortunately, you can't get everyone out, so we're really discussing half of the private ownership we have today in the power industry, i.e. approximately. 6 pst. by the industry. Although there is such a low private element, the focus is on a dogmatic, ideological fight against a small part of ownership and the management of Norwegian hydropower. There is no focus on efficient use of resources nor on the dynamics and development of the power industry. I'm sorry about that. There is no doubt that we are discussing a very important national resource today. We're talking about a total of maybe 120 TWh and a value of about $300 billion. And to illustrate this, with an efficiency loss of 0.1 pst, which I think can happen quickly when you limit possible ownership to the industry, that means 300 million. kr in the year of Norwegian society. This is why ensuring both diversity and optimal exploitation is a very important industry. Norwegian industry has already announced that this will have implications for investment and investment. That's very regrettable. But homelessness also creates many other incentives that give rise to less efficient use of resources. Such decisions as Odelstinget has taken are costing Norwegian society. In most areas, we are engaged in competition as a driver of efficiency. Removing private from water management removes environments that can contribute to increased competition for management and efficient use of resources. It also removes what is the main driving force for efficient resource use and optimum resource use, as I see it. In an industry such as hydropower, where large values are managed, and where money is almost ‘condemned’ when plants start to be written down, it is particularly important that we have competition as a check that the industry is actually operated efficiently and optimally. As an example of what diversity and different management environments mean, I want to highlight the development of small-scale power that has happened. It is a development that would not have been possible without private actors. Now the decision that is here today does not deal with trifling power, but it is a good example of what diversity of ownership and diversity of management strategies means. I don't think it would have been possible to get Statkraft interested in developing the potential that District Norway has, without all the small-power owners around the country who have taken hold of this. At the same time, a supplier industry has been developed in Norway and significant values have been created. The other inefficiencies created by the fall-back are that as the time of the fall-back approaches, the focus of the owner and the driver is going to be something quite different from both optimal development and optimal maintenance of the plant. In other words, the more we approach the time of the fall-back. Finally, I would like to remind you of what was going on in today's Business on August 15th this year. It said that State power has «large ambitions for hydropower in Eastern Europe, but also in South America and Southeast Asia through SN Power, which has a very exciting business plan». Norway is now pursuing a policy in Norway that Norway does not want to meet outside. I think it's a fundamental paradox that we have environments that strongly focus on hydropower development outside, while in Norway we don't open up for others to come here. Inheritance silver and national control have overshadowed the essentials. Norway has environments, prerequisites and competences in order to be offensive in this field. That's what Statkraft's strategy shows. But offensiveness outside is not strengthened by being defensive and protective at home. Then I would like to ask: why should we not ensure that Norwegian egg environments are so strong that more people can go out and do like Statkraft? We should trust it and bet on it, rather than base today's policy on old-fashioned horrors from 100 years back, when we have today's tax system, laws and rules to ensure that the interests of the community are safeguarded. We should build private ownership and private management environments, not send them out to nothing at all. Over time, it will provide less efficiency, innovation and development for Norway. Therefore, it should be recommended to Odelstinget to propose the bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-25-upper.ana.ud99e86	The representative of Gunnar Gundersen, on behalf of the Right, has put forward the proposal to which he has referred and which has been distributed in the Chamber. As the representative, Mr Gundersen, pointed out at the outset, the proposal was put forward only at 1 p.m. 12.40. In this respect, I think it is natural to refer to Section 30 of Stortingen’s Rules of Procedure, where it is, among other things. is: ‘If a proposal relating to the legal proceedings presented in the Lamentations has not been notified in advance of the submission to the President by the Administration of Storting at the latest by 1 p.m. 09.000 on the day on which the matter is to be dealt with in the Lamentation, the President or one fifth of the members present may oppose the vote on the proposal.’;» However, the President is prepared to propose that the Laging should address this proposal and that this should be contested at the end of this matter. - No one has spoken against it, and we then take this proposal up to voting at the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-25-upper.ana.ud99e96	This law is undoubtedly important. It's definitely not the way Gundersen's representative makes it, a fight against a small proportion of private owners. This is a matter of confirmation and exploitation of an action room in a discussion about ownership related to Norwegian hydropower resources that has been in progress almost continuously for the last ten years. The law is also, as it is now presented, a continuation and reinforcement of the legislation that this resource has been subject to nearly the last 100 years. In principle, it is also important in the sense that it corresponds well with views such as well over 90 pst. of the Norwegian population. For 100 years, pure Norwegian hydropower has been an important contributor to the welfare development we enjoy today. The objective of the UCITS has been to ensure official control and ownership of hydropower resources. In 2000, the Ministry began to assess the impact of the fall-back institution. In parallel, ESA had already turned its attention to the legislation and concession model in Norway. In November 2000, the Ministry of Oil and Energy presented a proposal which essentially required that all future acquirers of rights subject to concession under the Industrial Concession Act and the Waterways Regulatory Act be treated in a non-discriminatory manner by subjecting all of them to 75-year concessions. This was a proposal that I suppose most of the memories were much debated, not least in view of the transfer of value represented by this proposal. Then a political investigation was started - by the establishment of a sample in 2003 - of how to design a future fall-back institution. The majority then recommended a partial fall-back scheme after 75 years, which would mean that the owners at the time of the fall-back would have their ownership reduced to 1/3, and that the State would take over 2/3 of the falls and the power plants. These proposals were worked on until 2005. Fortunately, in April 2006 the red-green government decided that the fall-back scheme should be practised as it was practiced. On this basis, Norway was thus sued by the EFTA Court of ESA in July 2006. The judgment of 26 June 2007 was clear that the scheme practised did not comply with EEA law. Nevertheless, the judgment clarified that the law could be based on a principle of public ownership. Is that what I've been thinking, and is that what I've understood most people have wanted, is that you should actually build on public ownership, which was disputed already from 2000. In line with the judgment of the EFTA Court, the Government has now strengthened the principle of continued public ownership of its hydropower resources through the introduction of the consolidation model, precisely to ensure the clear acceptance of the judgment that the law can be based on a sound principle of public ownership. So in this case, there has been a lot of jus and little politics. I accept that jus is not an exact science, nor is it a fasitite. Nevertheless, I think there is reason to be clear that it is important to build a law that we are sure of can underpin the acceptance of public ownership as a guiding principle - as through the law that is now being treated. Equal opportunities for private and public owners through equal shares, or for the sake of extending the existing time of retirement, will undoubtedly be a weakening of the robustness of the legislative proposal we are discussing. It will also, I think, be very serious if one does not agree with the law, but actually ignores the system of relapses, as Gundersen really suggests. Privates are not set aside, they are fully involved in the possibility of participating with up to 1/3 ownership. It should provide opportunities for knowledge, participation, etc. in a very large and capital-intensive business. It's also the public ownership, which is 88 pst. today, in no way has mismanaged the resources. On the contrary, a capital-intensive industry exploits and underpins the values it is set to manage. Against this background, I strongly recommend the Creation to endorse the Odelsting decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-25-upper.ana.ud99e111	First of all, let me just express a good deal of initiative and attitude about the work done by the Government and the work done by the majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment through the position that exists for us here today. On that basis, it was so good that Gunnar Gundersen and Right came and presented what is obviously their principal attitude to this question. There is a principleal attitude The Right has had a long time, even when this law was introduced in its time, and it must be possible to say that there is an attitude that the Right has trouble getting up in the people. Whatever is believed to be public ownership and national control of important natural resources, it is at least difficult to escape the fact that the management of natural resources that Norway has managed, whether it is hydropower, oil or other energy resources, has been exemplary in showing that it has benefited the entire population. We've managed to build industries, we've managed to build industry, we've managed to build communities, and we've managed to distribute the value creation that this represents. There is also an attitude that is behind many parts of the Norwegian people. The polls I've seen on this show that well over 90 pst. by the population, we believe that we should call about the public ownership of Norwegian hydropower. So Gundersen says some things that I think deserve a comment. This is not a war against private ownership of Norwegian hydropower. When you say that, you really know the history of the case pretty badly, for the Senter Party, and many with the Senter Party, I think, were relatively comfortable with the arrangement we had, where one had the opportunity for private concessionaries, where one had the opportunity to extend repatriation, and where one had the opportunity to pursue another policy, a freer policy, than with the restrictions imposed by the EFTA Court. This led to the fact that you had to make these changes, and in a sense you had to choose. What I still want to say is that we should have the sense that an agreement is an agreement. Many have produced this as if we are creating poor conditions for the industry. It's an argument that I don't buy. First of all, when these power stations were built 60 years ago, from that time, or 60 years from the time of the fall-back, the agreement initially existed, i.e. free of charge to the State. This bill opens up huge value transfers to the private concessionaires, precisely because one has the ability to be left with 1/3, and because one has the ability to realise the sale close to the concession date. It will also counteract what Gundersen pointed out, namely that one at the end of the concession period could have a poor use of resources. I would say that it is wrong. Then there is a point to competition and lack of competition. I agree that competition is an important driver in almost all parts of society. We are also well aware of that in the hydropower sector. But what Gundersen should also know is that Norway has one of the most liberal power laws in Europe, probably in the world for that part, and one has a well-functioning Norwegian and Nordic power market. So there is strong competition in the power market in Norway. Well the ownership is public, but it's decentralised. The competition exists. So small power is not covered by this bill and will be able to continue just as before, and good is basically that. I agree with a lot of what Terje Aasland said. He also said that in this debate there has been a lot of jus and little politics. It's probably also true because the big line choices have drowned in legal tips. Nevertheless, the decisions we are about to take show that it is the policy that has won over the juxtaposition. I feel relatively confident that the solution we are now landing is a solution that we are going to have to face with great pride in the years and decades to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-25-upper.ana.ud99e124	The Christian People's Party believes that our water resources are the property of the community. The production and distribution of energy from hydropower shall, in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, as far as possible be in public ownership. Unlike the Right Party and the Advance Party, who primarily want to eliminate repatriation and equalise private and public owners, the Christian People's Party is essentially behind the government's bill. The consolidation model follows closely what has been Norway’s policy in this area for 100 years. Our disagreement in this matter is reflected in a joint proposal by the opposition parties on an adjustment to the Government's bill. This adjustment is not due to the purpose of public ownership. It implies a simultaneous fall-back for all existing privately owned power plants. Direct ownership of power plants is and has long been an important condition for investment in power-intensive industries in Norway. This is a policy that the Christian People's Party continues to support. Some of the government's leading advisers in this case said at the legal hearing that we had in this case, that this was about politics and not jus. There is a room for action for us to pursue politics. That is why the Christian People's Party has accepted certain amendments to the bill presented by the Government. I'm referring to Innst. O. No 78 for 2007-2008. The Christian People's Party will vote in favour of the Right's proposal, and that is that we vote in favour of the comments of the Christian People's Party and for the proposals on which we are voting in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-25-upper.ana.ud99e133	Let me first say that I am pleased with the liberal position of the President on the use of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure. I think it is also in line with the intention behind the rules. While the provisions on bulking and odelsting are reasonably clear, they assume that what is to be prevented is that some representatives are forced to take a stand on a proposal that does not overlook its contents. This issue is very rare in the negotiations of the Creation, where proposals have a standard wording, and where they are invited to take a position, is whether the matter is of such a nature that it is desirable that the Odelstinget be asked to go a round in the consideration of the bill. When I asked for the floor, it is really just to give a point of view of what has been a passing melody by the government parties in dealing with this matter. It's been a pretty strong I'm not supposed to say nationalist, but national rhetoric that's been linked to hundred-year perspectives in Norwegian history, etc. It is something in that argument that, to me, is quite serious, because there are some fundamental issues that concern the position of Norwegian society, both in Europe and in the rest of the world, which have changed radically over the course of a hundred years. Today, Norway is one of the most aggressive countries operating outside Norway’s borders. Yes, we're actually different from almost every other country in the world by the fact that it's the state that is the dominant owner of major players in the international energy market. The state is the dominant owner of StatoilHydro, one of the largest international companies. The state is dominant in State power. And the Storting has given signals and fully accepts that these companies operate according to exactly the same principles as all other private capitalist companies do; they want maximum freedom to care for their business interests, even in countries that are very poor in resources, and that have a need to protect their resources in that way Norway had it a hundred years ago. My question is, don't you see that there's something in this that's fundamentally outrageous, that we want to practice some principles at home that we really don't want to practice out there? In my mind, this is called double bookkeeping. I don't like it when individuals and private companies run double accounting, but I don't like it even more when states run double accounting. That is why I think there is every reason to ask our colleagues in Odelstinget to think again before they adopt this law.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-25-upper.ana.ud99e144	I will not extend the debate with a long speech, but I feel it is right to make an explanation of vote. I join the post of the representative of the Christian People's Party. The left is concerned with the right to return, but what we're talking about in this case is that we want an adjustment to what's available. Therefore, we agree that it may be reasonable for Odelstingen to have the opportunity to think about it once more, and also to consider the proposals that did not receive a majority in Odelstingen’s proceedings. So this is an explanation of vote on why we want to support the proposal from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-25-upper.ana.ud99e151	There was a long and rich debate in Odelstinget, and I will not take all my arguments from there again, but I feel the need to address a few things that have been raised in the debate here. The first is of a slightly general nature. It's quite obvious that here we hear a completely different input from parts of the Creation than we heard from the same parties' representatives in Odelstinget, where there was a discussion that went on to a large extent that everyone wanted to appear to be occupied by public ownership, but that one had different paths to the goal. Today, we hear a much more ideologically oriented argument towards the same thing, especially from the Right. After all, the concept of double accounting was finally used by the representative as a description of the decision it is invited to take. It is clear to me that the parties are clear about their argument, but what I think is a little more problematic is what becomes the review tone of the intervention of the representative, which is a relatively comprehensive statement, and which does not at all affect what the case is primarily about: that we have a judgment in the EFTA Court to deal with. We would like to think a few things about the relationship between private and public ownership, but the reality is that we have a judgment in the EFTA Court that says that one possibility to maintain a fall-back scheme, and in practice the only practicable system, is to be consistent with public ownership, and if one wants to, one must also implement it. That's the entrance, and I think that's the starting point for the debate. The second is about what the representative Holten Hemdal raised, which is a argument for the principle that the Government has based, but then with a different solution. To that, I just have to say -- in Lamentations, as I also said in Odelstinget -- that when one has managed to find a way to a fall-back solution that has the premise that public ownership must be the goal, then we have to be consistent with that. Pushing a fall-back away from 50 years in time, i.e. an extension of private ownership by 50 years, is not consistent with what the EFTA Court has given us the opportunity to continue a repatriation scheme. This means that the risk of risking the repatriation scheme is significant with the proposal that is invited to participate in today’s adoption.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-25-upper.ana.ud99e162	Several have not asked for the word. We shall then vote on the proposal tabled by the representative of Gunnar Gundersen on behalf of the Right. [[Votation, see below]] The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision of the nodule is not accepted. Lamentations note: it is recommended that Odelstinget should refer to the bill.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-25-upper.ana.ud99e183	The Odelsting's decision is thus endorsed by the Laging, and the law will be to send the King in accordance with the Constitution.
