ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e63	Representatives Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, Borghild Tenden, Karin Andersen, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, Hill-Marta Solberg, Berit Brørby, Espen Johnsen, Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Ola Borten Moe and Line Henriette Holten Heimdal, who has been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternate of the South-Trøndelag County, Hanne Dyveke Sweets, has taken the seat. Three permit applications are available: from the representatives of Ågot Valle and Øystein Djupedal on leave from 26 February to 29 February, both to take part in the first part of the 52nd Women's Commission and the Parliamentary Forum of the Interparliamentary Union in New York from the representative Heikki Holmås on study leave from 26 February to 29 February On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the Hordaland County: Audun Bjørlo Light Hill For Oslo: Ingunn Gjerstad For South-Trundellag County: Ingvild Vaggen Malvik
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e142	Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken, Ingunn Gjerstad and Ingvild Vaggen Malvik are present and will take the seat. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 15 February 2008: ‘In the Council of State of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on 15 February 2008 at 2.30 p.m. 11 a.m. is determined: Office of the Prime Minister State Councillor Manuela Ramin-Osmundsen is hereby dismissed from office as a member of the King's Council of 15 February 2008 at 10 a.m. 13:00. State Council Trond Giske takes over from 15 February 2008 at 2.30 p.m. 13.00 and until further notice by the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality. State Secretary Kjell Erik Øie is pardoned as Secretary of State for the Council of State Manuela Ramin-Osmundsen and has been appointed State Secretary for the Council of States Trond Giske in child and equality matters from 15 February 2008 at 2.30 p.m. 13.00.’» The referenced letter shall be annexed to the minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e167	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings today and for the rest of the week - and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen. Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen are unanimously elected as chairpersons for Stortinget's meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e177	The representative, Erna Solberg, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e180	On behalf of Jan Tore Sanner and myself, I will be allowed to make proposals to ensure clearer and better minority rights in Storting's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e185	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e196	Our health care is among the best in the world. It may also contribute to our expectations of what we can and will achieve, sorting into world-class. Each year, the average age is now increasing by 70 days per year. years. Infant mortality has fallen by one third in ten years and is at a very low international level. We are clearly among the countries in the world that spend the most money on health care. We have had an annual growth in hospitals of about 9 500 from 2002 to 2006 - as many people live in the municipality of Holmestrand. Medical years in hospitals have increased by about 300 each year over the same period. If we compare ourselves with Sweden, Denmark and Finland, we have more doctors and more nurses per day. the population. About two months ago, the Stortinget, as we know, adopted a hospital budget for 2008 of about $85 billion, or $85 billion. kr. That's 35 thousand million. kr more than we used in 2002. The number of patients treated has increased sharply in recent years, while waiting lists have been relatively stable. Several studies also show us that patients are evenly satisfied with the offer they receive in our hospital. We're getting more and more, and we can help more and more. There's a great job done by a lot of great employees and great fellows, people who probably don't get the praise and care they deserve. A lot is very good, but a good part can get better too. Then it must be good processes. Neither of us can promise a fully relocated healthcare service, but we can promise to contribute with participation in processes. Both structures, organisation and, not least, medical-technological developments challenge familiar ideas and thoughts on how to deliver healthcare. In addition, we know that the composition of disease and age is changing. It has, for example, have been a major increase in the prevalence of cancer since the post-war period, seagoing when we adjust for age. The incidence of cancer increases annually by between 1.5 and 2 pst. This corresponds to about 24,000 new patients every year. Fortunately, cancer patients today receive both better and more extensive diagnostics, and more measures are being taken against each individual patient than a few years ago. The development of better treatment methods has contributed to increased survival and significantly improved quality of life for cancer patients. The number of dialysis treatments in hospitals has increased by 8 pst. from 2006 to 2007, i.e. over the course of a year, they have increased by almost 6,000. Cochlea implants, which are operated into the head, make people who previously had to remain deaf, now can hear. It's a whole new life. This gives us a whole new opportunity, because we have better treatment options in our healthcare system. At the same time, increased welfare in itself means an increased demand for healthcare. The expectations and requirements of what healthcare can contribute are increasing. People are better educated and better informed. These include: through the Internet all the time up-to-date information on what can be offered both in our country and not least in other countries. Many come with printing from it when they get to the doctor, hospital or primary health care. Therefore, users are demanding both treatment and quality to a greater extent. That's good - and it should just be missing. Is it so that the debate we have in Norway is outstanding? No, that debate and the challenges are being discussed in every country we can compare with. Some issues may differ from those in Norway, but trends are similar. The general impression is that new technologies, new treatments and new drugs are most often in addition to the existing treatment provision. That is good, because new methods can help increase life expectancy further, and that more people can live longer and better with chronic illness or disability. But this will also confront us with greater priority requirements and even better use of treatment capacity. In Norway, however, we have oil revenues that not everyone else has, and more children are born than in many countries around us. It makes us well equipped to meet an ageing population. That's good. We need to continue to focus on research, innovation and good education in order to ensure quality and competence all the time. This is to provide the best possible healthcare. Let me stress that it is the regional health businesses that are to ensure that the population of the region has access to specialist health services. This means that they have a responsibility to adapt their services in each region to the needs of the population, and they are obliged to notify my department if they cannot provide these services. When serious errors and incidents occur, it is important that we take it seriously and take action. It may also be right to connect the State Health Authority, as was done when two trusted doctors - in a debate - said that patients died while waiting for treatment. About the pronounced stately Petter Schou yesterday the following: ‘At present, we do not have cases or signs that indicate that there is directly irresponsible activity due to changes, but we are going to follow the process closely and closely both in relation to each hospital and in relation to what the regional whole enterprise is doing overall for our area.’ There is now a public debate on the division of labour between hospitals and the need for change. It is a debate I very much welcome, because it is important to discuss how we will jointly develop services in the future. Both demographic and technological developments point to the need to develop supply along two lines: centralisation and decentralisation. For example, one is now able to restore blood flow in tight veins and perform curative interventions before an acute heart attack has progressed. This has happened in a very short time. The methods are now so gentle that treatment can be offered without open surgery, and therefore there is virtually no age limit for the treatment of heart disease either. This is just one example. The same applies to modern brain stroke therapy. Cancer surgery is also an example of diseases where you need to have training to do well. This has to be gathered in fewer places. For people with serious life-threatening diseases, robust professional environments are needed. We have to do this quickly, and we have to see the country as a whole. We also need to cooperate more closely with other countries, especially in some rare forms of cancer. There are people who are listed in the countries from which they come, who come to us and get good help. But it's also true that we probably have to be more willing to send people with e.g. rare cancers spread to other countries in the Nordic countries and northern Europe. I have asked for a report from the Social and Health Directorate on how to do this in practice, and I will get it by 1 June this year. On the other hand, the large and growing groups are among, for example: chroniclers and sick elderly depending on easily accessible services, often organised in a network around each user. For their quality of life, provision in the community will often be the best. This provides a strong primary health service, a stronger commitment to our permanent staff and an ongoing decentralised specialist health service. No local hospitals shall be closed. That's enough for everyone. District medical centres, hospitals, outpatient clinics and rehabilitation services can provide increased safety and overall safety in the supply. Decentralised services with cell toxicity treatment, dialysis and light treatment are examples of services developed in several places. And we're going to have more of that. I have great faith in giving people good and sound services where they live. People live their lives with health problems, illness and disability in the municipalities and, as many say, are often only temporarily enrolled in the specialist health service. Therefore, the health and care services in the municipalities are the foundation of our entire healthcare service, and I believe that it has been given too little attention in relation to how important it really is. An area that is often given attention, and where it is often a failure, is the transition between the different levels. I am concerned that hospitals and municipalities need to cooperate for the benefit of the patient. In many places, it works well to create special units that solve tasks between the first and second line services, such as: Hospital in Alta. Elsewhere, it works best for the specialist healthcare service to come out where the patient is, such as for example: Area Geriatric Team in Namsos or the outpatient X-ray service at Ullevål. In both places, the specialist health service visits the municipal hospitals, providing better quality for those in need of help. On a proposal from the Government, last year the Stortinget distributed 50 million. SEK for local hospital and interaction projects. 133 practice consultants have also been established for hospitals, which will help strengthen cooperation between municipalities and hospitals. The government has entered into an agreement with the Local Governments’ Central Association on how to interact, and there are now similar agreements being concluded at local level, because for individual patients and for society there are considerable quality improvements in enhanced cooperation between primary health services, hospitals and specialists. So what does the economy look like? Sjukehusa has been receiving more and more funds in recent years. The budget summit for the current year is historically very good - yes, that's the best thing in Norwegian history. The government's proposal, to which the Stortinget joined, involves more money for both operations and investments, in line with what we promised in the Soria Moria Declaration. Since the government joined in the autumn of 2005, we have presented our own care message, a big message about social inequalities in health. For the first time in history, we have presented a national health plan. We have set up an annual health conference, which last year totals over 1,000 participants. We're going to repeat it this year and every year in the future. We have also presented a national strategy for rehabilitation and an escalation plan for the drug field, to mention something. We have also merged, with which the Stortinget is well known, Health South and Health East to get a more active patient treatment and more quality in the offer. For the first time after the hospital reform in 2002, an increase in hospital patient treatment is being budgeted this year. It facilitates an increase of 1.5 pst. from 2007 to 2008 - i.e. about 18 000 more treatments. As is well known, the government's proposal to grant almost NOK 2 billion more to income to ensure the renewal of hospital buildings and equipment was adopted. Health enterprises are now better able to ensure an important premise for the entire reform, namely responsibility for operation and investment. This has been unresolved since 2002, and it has, among other things, has resulted and is some of the explanation of the deficits that are being rewritten today. In summary, the budget for hospitals is actually strengthened by DKK 3.9 billion, or 5 pst., in 2008 compared to the current budget for 2007. As the Stortinget is also well known, the hospital budget has increased by approximately SEK 3.2 billion to cover the expected price and salary growth this year. So in current dollars, the increase of SEK 7.1 billion, or about 9 p.p., is compared to the balance of the budget for 2007. This year’s budget is the largest specialist healthcare service ever in Norway. When healthcare companies now say that they have to cut costs, a significant reason is that some over time have spent more money than the Storting has put at its disposal. This is not the way healthcare can continue. It is fundamentally undemocratic. Think if those who are responsible for roads, schools or municipalities would do the same -- no, we just want to spend another billion! That's not the way to keep going. The word in the economy is important for everyone, including healthcare. It may now appear that the hospitals overall will have a deficit of approximately SEK 1.5 billion in 2007 in relation to the performance requirement, but here I must stress that we do not have the final figures yet. This is probably 1.5 pst. of the total budget of the health establishments. The deficits include, inter alia, the following: health-care establishments receive more short-term loans in the form of operating credits than they would otherwise have had. By the end of 2007, preliminary figures show that total operating credits exceed NOK 6 billion. In addition to operating credits, health care companies have an estimated DKK 12 billion in long-term loans to the country. This may sound a lot, and there is a lot of money, but I would like to remind you that in the context of the reform, about NOK 16 billion in long-term debt to the county councils was cancelled. At the time, the debt amounted to over 30 pst. of the income of counties in the specialist health service. The corresponding indebtedness today is about 14 p.m., or less than half of what it was before the state took over the hospital. I will comment on the economic situation of the regional health companies after the consultation we had here in the Stortingen in the autumn. Unfortunately, there has been a deterioration in the economy in Health South-East, and especially related to the two major Oslo hospitals - the Rikshospitalet and Ullevål. Health South-East is now reporting a total deficit of NOK 1 billion. This constitutes dry 2 pst. of the budget for 2007 at DKK 48 billion. Health South-East started already in the autumn an extensive work to get as good an organisation in the capital as possible. The situation in these two hospitals is an important part of this project. The other health enterprises in Health South-East also face challenges in adapting their operations to the frameworks put at their disposal. According to Health South-East, the reason for the large deficit in 2007 is a combination of lack of conversion, high manpower growth and a slightly too high activity. Since the open consultation of the Committee last autumn, all three other regions have notified an unchanged or somewhat better economic situation. This is a joyous development that gives hope that the efforts made at all levels of organisations are now beginning to deliver both governance and economic results. Health West has for a long time been able to demonstrate the close and good management of its health businesses. This seems to have produced good results both professionally and economically. In particular, I would like to highlight the work undertaken by the region in order to achieve even closer control and control of manning developments in the region. Work involves a solid quality improvement. The deficit for 2007 now seems to be about 100 million. kr for Health West. It is about 0,7 pst. of the budget of just over 15 billion kroner. Health Mid-Norway may indicate better results than in the autumn, which clearly shows that the conversion work undertaken by this region has been successful. The region appears to have stopped and partly also reversed the negative economic development of the region in recent years. Health Mid-Norway is now close to a deficit of less than 100 million. for 2007 of a total budget of around DKK 12 billion. It is about 0,8 pst. Health Nord now reports better results than they did before Christmas. Now there's a deficit of under 250 million. kr for 2007. It's slightly less than 2.5 pst. of the budget of DKK 10 billion. But given that this is the smallest region in the country, I'm not satisfied with that result. In this region, too, the deficit is explained by the lack of implementation of conversion measures and manpower growth beyond what is budgeted. On the positive side, good action has been taken in 2007. I expect to see the good effect of these measures in the year we are now in. In addition, new measures are now being put in place to further control in the region. Common for all regions is that economic developments can be explained by activity growth, manning growth, increased product costs and other increased operating costs. But there is a constant move across the country that there has been one too weak control of the growth of staff. Several hospitals need to have control of the number of people they employ, according to the income base of government and population. For this reason, in the business meetings with regional health businesses in January now, I have highlighted the importance of addressing this area in 2008. Yes, I have even decided that in all healthcare companies, samples will now be set up to approve all newly created jobs and jobs in healthcare companies. From different levels, questions have been raised about how regional health enterprises are to deal with increased pension costs. I would like to make it clear that the increase we are talking about here comes mainly as a result of changed expectations related to future salary growth and long-term interest rates. There are conditions that neither we nor health companies can affect seafaring. Therefore, as is known, this increase in costs has been exempted from the performance requirements both in 2007 and 2008. In the 2008 budgetary process, we assumed that interest rates would rise slightly towards the turn of the year. It was then estimated that the cost for 2008 would exceed what was used in the appropriations, with approximately NOK 2.2 billion. But because the interest rate went further down to the end of the year, the increase is now estimated at approximately NOK 3.8 billion. We will not know the final cost for 2008 until late harvest. As previously notified to the Storting, the Government is now working to find a longer-term solution on how to address the issues of pension costs and pension contributions both in health enterprises and in private institutions. The government will come back to this – since the revised national budget for 2008. The administration is concerned that patients should wait as long as possible for the necessary treatment. About two out of three get immediate help. The last third does not need immediate help. Patients are required for the planned investigation and treatment within the period of medical care. New figures for the third tertiary in 2007 show that the overall waiting time has been relatively stable since 2005, but there is a small increase of three days on average. Waiting time fluctuations in a few days may be the result of random factors. The numbers indicate that those who need the most help, i.e. the rights spaces, get the help they need faster than others. That's very good. At the same time, there are differences in waiting time between health businesses. For some health establishments there is zero waiting time and for others there is a partial waiting time. Many patients can cut the waiting time further by using the free choice of hospitals and by making even better use of the capacity of hospitals. For example, patients with musculoskeletal disorders will have a lot to do with the free choice of hospitals, because there is a lot of free capacity around the country in that area - to give an example. But in order for such information to be available to everyone, the government wants us to get one place where all patients who need it can call to get help to find out which hospital they can probably get into, as well as those who use the web. We now have a trial plan in Hedmark called the Patient Aids, which are people who sit and help people move on in the system, and so it has greatly reduced the waiting time in the municipalities that are now trying this out. In 2007, the State Health Authority carried out a nationwide surveillance of hospital emergencies. The result of that supervision, as Stortinget is sure to know, was presented yesterday. The overall picture shows that lack of management and management characterises the everyday life of several of these acute recipients. In the light of the assessment by the Health Authority, this sometimes results in irreprehensible treatment. It is argued that in more than half of the acute recipients, it was uncertain whether patients were subject to professionally sound investigation and diagnosis. This is, of course, totally unacceptable and very serious. Therefore, the emergency reception will be a matter for me to deal with the directors and directors of the regional health companies at the end of this week. I am also going to convene extraordinary business meetings, so I can assure myself that it will be settled in this as quickly as possible. We need to be sure that the offers that meet the population in the most critical situations of life are professionally sound. Something else is not acceptable. We have to constantly look at how we use resources, both professionally and economically, in the best possible way. Health South-East has, as you know, been given a mandate to improve coordination and resource use in the merged region, especially in the capital area. This applies, inter alia, to: better coordination of professional and research environments, better use of personnel, hospital areas, ICT and medical devices, etc. It is also a prerequisite that better resource use should be a good thing for all parties, i.e. above all for the patients in the metropolitan area, but also for the patients throughout the region and in the country too. In the assignment given, I have underlined the importance of open communication, good processes and systematic involvement of different actors. The solutions chosen for the metropolitan area may have an impact on healthcare elsewhere in the country. For this reason, we have stressed from the Department that in the capital process, necessary dialogue must be ensured with the other parts of the country. The capital process is a very comprehensive task, and I closely follow the way Health South-East carries out this process. Objectives and frameworks, including for this process, shall be politically guided. It will also, of course, be an important perspective in the follow-up of the department. Health services are in transition, and so will be in the future. That is why I have stressed that there must be inclusive processes and participation in this work. I also point out that the Health and Welfare Committee has been invited to a seminar on the capital process later today. So, to the case of building a new patient hotel at the Radium Hospital. It is serious that it looks as if the Rikshospitalet HF has started this work without the necessary powers or funding being in place. I have therefore asked Health South-East for an explanation in this case, and it is a preliminary statement that will be available tomorrow. I assume that Health South-East follow up all aspects of this matter. The government wants users and employees to be more closely included in all development and conversion work in the specialist health service. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has recently concluded a cooperation agreement with the health business organisations on the development of specialist health services. I would also like to stress that user organisations must also be actively involved in this work. The agreements shall include, inter alia: contribute to ensuring the safety and predictability of staff in the conversion process. The aim is that such agreements should also be concluded at local level. Another aspect I want to highlight is the follow-up to the 2008 NOU:2 Distribution of income between regional health businesses, the Magnussen Committee. It is now known to be out in wide consultation until mid-April. The government will come back with its proposal in an appropriate manner as soon as possible. The issue dealt with in this report is clearly a subject for political dialogue. The distribution of income system is perhaps one of the most important factors in terms of long-term and predictability in healthcare. Therefore, political understanding - and consensus, if possible, on the premises - is important for the distribution of revenue between the different regions. I would like to address how we will achieve a process of distribution of income between the regions that meets the need for both long-termity and predictability. Different political views on parts of health policy are quite natural in a democratic society like ours. Getting the opportunity to explain in Stortinget also gives me the opportunity to hear the different political views on the main issues in the hospital sector. The next presentation and debate will be important in further dialogue with this seminar on the future of the capital process in the future and the process of the Magnussen Committee. Sometimes I think we have to remind each other that it is a good health condition and not the consumption of healthcare that is the goal. Health services are only one of several instruments that have a positive impact on health status. Environmental conditions, physical activity, where one has grown up, level of education and not least prevention is also involved. How can we prevent so many people from becoming ill? That's the most important question. For this reason, the Government will strengthen its efforts in the area of prevention. We are in hospitals and healthcare, among the best in the world -- yes. At the same time, however, we must recognise challenges and shortcomings. There's a lot we can get better at. I believe there are no simple solutions. The government believes that there is only systematic and thorough work in consultation with employees, managers, users and local communities that can do good. Professional and financial resources must be used in the best possible way and for the benefit of patients. The challenge now lies in how to jointly contribute to the development of services and services in line with the overall objectives we have for a safe and good and equivalent treatment offer - an offer where all people are seen and respected, where it is always the health state of the individual that determines service provision and treatment, and it is independent of social background, gender, skin color and the thickness of the wallet.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e296	Having regard to the second paragraph of Section 34a of the Rules of Procedure, the President will now propose opening a comment round in which one representative from each party group may have the floor once for up to 5 minutes, with a closing statement from the Council of State of up to 5 minutes. - No objection has been raised against this procedure and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e301	I would like to thank the Council of State for a thorough and thorough presentation. I believe that it is crucial now that we here in the United Kingdom maintain a broad majority of the main concerns in the discussions on the 2007 and 2008 budgets, and that is that we will coordinate healthcare better and concentrate the specialities, in particular through the great grip of creating the new health region Health South-East. We will also improve the overall process of treatment, especially by focusing on rehabilitation. At Stortinget, we have talked about the next major promise in the health sector, by turning resources against the prevention and response of chroniclers - in short, having an offensive against the growing lifestyle diseases - to prevent the great pressure against the central hospitals. It is important that we build our role here on the Storting by discussing and holding to the big grips and main lines where we want to improve health policy, rather than letting us tear down and jump every time there is a single issue or a budget measure that is problematic. If we do not manage to hold a fundamental and meaningful debate on these key issues, it will, in the long run, affect all policy-makers involved in health policy. That's why it's just sad to hear that the second largest party here at Stortinget is warning that they are planning to sign up by going in for new, big extra appropriations, because it will never be entirely appropriate to agree to concentrate on the necessary governance measures. However, in a country where we have repeatedly - even recently - been shown to be at the top of the world when it comes to having most nurses and most doctors in relation to the number of inhabitants, in terms of the use of resources per year. Consisting, where we are well ahead of resource use in neighbouring countries such as Sweden and Finland, without it being certain that we will receive equivalent better healthcare for this money, and in a country where we have added to large budget increases this year, we should be able to concentrate on governance rather than a discussion about sending more money immediately. It has to be added in the name of justice that even the Progress Party, the last time they had their hand on the steering wheel in a budgetary work here on the Stortinget -- I think it was in the 2004 budget together with the then Bondevik government -- was just enough to add 500 million. NOK extra to the hospital of a total of NOK 7 billion, I think it was, that you moved in the agreement that time. So even when you had your hand on the steering wheel, it wasn't about NOK 2-3 billion, as it has been partly, but it was about a realistic budget increase that also made you get tough budget rounds in health businesses in that year. It is also a fact that all the other opposition parties on the Stortinget, except the Progress Party, have set up alternatives to minimum adjustments in their budgets for this year, some adjustments to the bets, which should mean that we could concentrate here on a constructive debate on governance, and not set up a rush against a minister who will keep the budget to which the Stortinget has committed itself. I think it's natural for the Storting to pay attention to the coordination in the new health region, because it's an important question for the whole country to come out well, that there will be a positive interaction between all participants, with heavy leadership levels at different levels that are now to be coordinated, and that there will be little prestige and bargains at all levels, so that you can get the process into a good crowd and a good track. It is important to remember that the specialities to be coordinated in the Oslo area concern the whole country, i.e., which the minister was concerned with, that the capacity to be built up here needs to be adapted to the capacity to be targeted when collecting the specialities elsewhere in the country. The second main question is how we can better manage the entire treatment process, how we can create forms of funding that give more counting to bet on rehabilitation and prevention, where we prevent pressure from the major hospitals. Getting that whole thing in the treatment chain has several parties interested in, and I hope that this year we will be able to pay a lot of attention together, and that this debate may be the start of a good interplay on developing health policies for the benefit of all citizens, and not a destructive rush of crowns and ears.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e324	First, a small line to the representative Bohemian, who had a post that was perhaps more adapted to be held after the 2009 elections, when he now concluded that the Advance Party was the largest party on the Grand Ring. But that's how it works. I feel a little provoked when some representatives in this house who are working on health policy and hospital policy claim that they are jumping with a background in individual matters. I have been sitting on the Stortinget for over ten years, and this is no longer about individual matters. It's about what the Riksrevision actually says today, that the hospitals are out of control, and then the matter is much more serious than accusing someone of jumping for each individual matter. There are 220 000 people in line; there are 220 000 individual cases. The representative Boehler would like to characterize it as de minimis, but to me it is very serious. For me, the fact that the hospital queues are also increasing under the current regime is very serious. Maybe it's a trifle of representative Bohemian. In 2007, the sitting government seized itself. I don't want to see it as jumping because of a single thing, but I'd like to refer to St.prp. No 44 for 2006-2007, where the Government itself entered and proposed 800 million. kr extra due to an emergency situation. There the government said at the time last year that there was a need of 800 million. NOK extra because the situation was out of control. I actually don't think you've been able to get the system changes that you wanted during this year, and that's why the situation is still out of control. I'm going to give praise to the Council of State, because it was a very thorough explanation -- a lot of numbers -- but there was nothing new out of it. What came from the state council here, we've heard from the state council and the government's actors for a long, long time. That's why it's also necessary to get a more thorough review than it's being added up to. We'd like to stand here and say that we're the world's best at both the one and the other, and that expectations may also be about the world's best in that way. That makes sense. Of course, we have never experienced as much resource access to health as in the budget in 2008 - quite logically, of course it is. But I'm almost provoked, and I have to be allowed to ask questions by the Council of State saying that we have high activity, and that we have too high manpower growth. And then you have to go in and say, "Where is your activity too high?" Who has been operated on that should not have been operated on? Who's in line and who's still in line? That's what this is all about. I don't believe in the fact that all the health workers who make a formidable effort do it because it's funny. They do it because they want to help people who have challenges, who are in line. You do not look at personnel in these areas because you have to have additional staff. I take it for granted that those who are employed in health in Norway have a task to do. We're lagging behind in all sorts of ways. We're in arrears related to treatment. We're in deficit-related deficits. We're in deficits related to bias distribution. The progress party doesn't say this because we want to be populist, as it's manufactured as. We say that because the situation is very serious. That's also what the National Auditor's saying today. I'm glad the Council of State said we have to look at the country as a whole. Then we have to look at what has gone wrong with the 2002 reform. Perhaps we need to view the country more as a healthful one. We may need to start to assess whether companies are going to be closed down and whether hospitals are going to be allowed to exist as separate units to a much greater extent. As the Council of State also said, we need to look at other countries, see if we can use health services in countries around us. Then we have to do it to a much greater extent than what's being done now. Of course, we all agree that we need to have greater interaction between small local hospitals, regional hospitals, primary health services and national hospitals. We all agree on that. But we can't do this tomorrow, unfortunately. That's why we have to deal with the acute situation and what had to be a burden on patients, and give extra appropriations now - in the same way that the Government did last year. The matter is so serious that I would suggest that the statement is not annexed to the Minutes, but is forwarded to the Committee for further consideration - because the matter is of such a serious nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e341	The representative Per Sandberg has made a proposal that we will come back to later.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e344	Let me start where the previous speaker stopped. I support the proposal that the report be forwarded to the Health and Care Committee, so that we can go into the matter more thoroughly. Those who have joined the debate on Norwegian health policy for a few decades will without a doubt feel the pattern behind the presentation of the Council of State. The government parties that sit at any time always say that no previous government has spent so much money on health care. That's always right. The opposition that sits at all times says: Never has it been worse than now. And that's usually right. It would be a brief conclusion to draw the conclusion that the more money we spend, the worse it gets. It is clear that the basic problem in Norwegian health care is not the measurement of how many nurses or how many nurseries we have in relation to the size of the population, but the basic problem is that we lack real knowledge of what the money is going to do. We lack real knowledge of the results, both quantitatively and qualitatively. That's why the free hospital choice to date is a paper tiger, simply because we lack knowledge of quality and the results of the money we spend. The representative of Boehler is quite obviously right in saying that it is the management problem that is the fundamental problem that is following us, and that there is a need for control action. At this very point, I have to say that the Council of State's statement was a disappointment. There was no clear message about what governance the Council of State intends to take. In a short time, we have seen that a trades union council in a central area such as maternity care has left its place because they are reported as a lack of government from the Council of State. We have seen that a former State Council has resigned as a board member of a health company for the same reason - because he feels that the responsibilities are fundamentally unclear. What was the idea of Tore Tønne when he launched the hospital reform in his time was to clear up the lines of responsibility, that there should be a clear relationship between the responsibilities of the health companies' governments, the responsibilities at regional level, and the responsibilities at national level, at the Council of State and at large. That clarity is not present today. We're further away from that clarity than what we were at the sketch Tore Tøn presented, among other things. for the reason that the current government introduced a reform of the composition of the board of directors, which in itself pulverises responsibility and makes the division of responsibilities between the board of health companies and political governance unclear. It is right, as the representative Bøhler said, that we are at the top of the world in terms of expenditure and categories of professionals in relation to the size of the population. But we have a fundamental problem: we don't get almost the results out of the resource use that we could and should get. Continuing to cash into a system that works poorly is not a solution. At the same time, the review by the Council of State today shows that the assumptions she herself presented for committee and enlargement in December when we adopted the budget are uncertain, and that the 2007 accounting results are suitable for significantly weakening the image of parts of the specialist healthcare service. In the opinion of the Right, the hospital reform is in a very critical phase. Its state of health is getting serious. It may even be right to use an image as a ‘respirator’ on the patient. That is why we have impatience with the ability of the Council of State to come to Stortinget with the necessary governance. We have implemented a permanent reform that we have not yet taken the results from. We have implemented a hospital reform that we do not have the power to extract the results. And that is and will be the main point, as it was with Tore Tønne's hospital reform: political responsibility lies one single place, namely with the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e361	I want to look back a little bit and look at a comparison between two major health reforms that were carried out at the beginning of this millennium. One of us is now discussing the reform of health enterprises. The other is the fixed-age reform. They were implemented approximately at the same time. The interesting thing is that if you look at the impact of the two reforms, you will see that in the period 2002-2006, the number of health care professionals has increased by 12.6 pst. Similarly, the increase in fixed reform has been 0.3pst. So we're discussing today, as we've done all year long, the specialist health service and how it works, despite the fact that there's only a very small proportion of what's happening in the health care system, that happens in the specialist health service. In the primary health service, there was a consultation rate in 2007. 13.5 million. 4.5 million were immediate help consultations. 10 pst. of which were hospitalisations for immediate help. This means that for each individual in the Norwegian population, an average of 10 years goes between each hospitalisation requiring immediate help. In spite of that, we are discussing - and we are doing that over and over again - as if all healthcare is primarily about specialist healthcare. It's all wrong. We have had a reform, the fixed reform, which has shown that it is possible to have a sensible resource use that is targeted, and where one manages to handle 13.5 million consultations per year - with a very low noise level and with very little increase in resource allocation. It could have been asked whether primary doctors should not have been more demanding, so that they had improved the supervision of Norwegian nursing homes, strengthening the supervisory activities against home-based care and strengthening the prevention of health work related to school health services. All these measures would have been sensible precisely to relieve the burden on specialist health services and thus mitigate the level of costs. Instead, we see that some of those who get the most attention are the most specialised services, which the few of us are ever going to need, as if the world is going to go down if those services are also faced with demands. In many ways, we see the exact same thing in the specialist health service as Arthur Arntzen in his day put it: if we don't get pharmacies in Development, millions are going to die. If we don't have the ability to take a critical look at the specialist health service, in relatively few years we won't have the finances to keep this up. I visited a local hospital where you can prove that in orthopaedics there is one--one--immediate help-bed every three days. In spite of that, the local hospital has continuous orthopaedic staff for a remuneration of NOK 100 000 to NOK 200000 per month. We see that despite the decision made by the Storting in 2001 that food departments should not maintain their operations under a certain minimum, they are still in operation seven years later. We see how gynecology has an acute preparedness despite the fact that there are no volumes that can defend it. And this costs money. I can't see that the Progress Party has anything to contribute to this debate, but in parentheses they argue that more resources in each of these areas where we are wasting resources would solve the problems. But the system illustrates that this only creates problems, it does not solve them. That's why we have to go through critically the way resources are used in Norwegian hospitals -- not for the sake of putting more into a system that behaves just like the little caterpillar Never met in the book that I've read to my children many times. So it doesn't lead to any goal of putting more money into that system without asking critical questions about how the resources are used. It means a system in which there have been too big changes in the years to come. We have to bring down a number of the emergency functions of local hospitals, and we have to move the local hospital functions out of the large hospital units. It allows us to use the funds more rationally, and it allows us to release resources into the primary health service, for more resource use that could really have given results and relief to the specialist health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e376	We hear reports from several hospitals about the closure and cutting of treatment facilities and job homes and about the closure of hospitals and hospitals throughout the country. This creates population insecurity, and it is not consistent with the signals given by the Council of State before Christmas when we adopted the State budget for 2008. Then it was said that hospitals get a real growth in patient treatment of 1.5 pst. from 2007 to 2008 - which the Council of State repeated today. Necessary conversion processes should not compromise patient services. Already the week after, the first notices of cuttings came. Today's situation requires much greater political action and much stronger political governance from the Government than we have seen so far. But what are the problems? Is that too little money? Is there too much management and management of hospitals? Is there a lack of interaction between municipal health services and hospitals? Are the municipalities too poorly equipped to accept patients coming from hospitals, or for that matter to prevent them from being sent to hospitals? Is it the funding system that works against its purpose? Are the hospitals overreacting? Probably the answer is in a combination of these explanations and maybe several others. At least on several occasions the Christian People's Party has called for an adjustment to the hospital reform, because today there has been too much store and too little policy in terms of governance. Some answers have been pointed out by the Council of State today, but it is alarming that she does not mention in one word the funding system, which is mature for auditing, or lack of governance and management, which is not only the acute recipients who suffer. The evaluation of the hospital reform has shown that productivity and activity development have improved, but priority practices do not appear to have been balanced between regional health businesses. However, practices within most health establishments have become more consistent. It is alarming that lower priority groups have experienced a relatively greatest reduction in waiting time, which is interpreted as a worsening of priority practices. The council today says the opposite - that the rights spaces get help first, but that the waiting time goes up. I look forward to looking at these new numbers. The hospital reform has so far had no clear impact on the interaction between the two levels of administration. We see that half of the increase in patient stays from 2001 to 2004 can be attributed to the fact that more patients are receiving treatment. The other half can be attributed to more stays per year. patient, and a lot of this is cleaning. We see that the focus on economics at the hospital level is governing the priority and quality of healthcare. The Directorate for Social Affairs and Health expressed concern about this in its report on input-driven funding, which was presented last year. Intervention-driven funding was intended as a management tool for regional health enterprises. It has never been meant as a priority tool for profitable and unprofitable patients. The cuttings and conversions that are now being proposed in a number of hospitals to balance the budgets, without an overall impact assessment, are not the way to control the hospital sector. The government must now review the experience we have so far with the hospital reform and, not least, the funding system, and make proposals for adjustments to the reform. We need a funding system that provides for greater coherence between healthcare, from prevention to treatment to rehabilitation and aftercare. Greater governance is needed with the content and priorities of health policy, both by the Stortinges and the Government. This is also requested by the hospitals. Today’s system does not create confidence in the population, even though the Council of State repeatedly says she has confidence in health businesses. But we can't leave all of this to health companies. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to stress that transitions and changes must, of course, be a politically guided process, based on geographical, climatic and medical conditions, and not solely on economics. There is a need for a system to prevent the economy from being governed by the treatment given in each department. Priority should be given to profitable operations instead of giving priority to the most ill. In the end, time has come to take some basic steps. As it is today, many patients experience themselves as throwing balls between different levels of the system. There is a need for a funding system that is better interrelated across health care levels. Furthermore, what is happening in hospitals must be seen in conjunction with what is happening in the municipalities. Without upgrading health services in municipalities, there will be too much pressure on hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e404	Governments have provided a good situational description of health business challenges in 2008. An expected deficit of approximately DKK 11/2 billion total for regional health enterprises in 2007 requires an improvement in efficiency if a 1.5 pst treatment growth is achieved. shall be achieved within the adopted budgets. The positive developments in Health West and Health Mid-Norway show that it is actually possible to take action in a sector that is challenging to rule. And we know, through the Magnussen Committee, that these two regional health companies along with Health Nord have relatively less resources than Health South-East. I think it's a cross of thought how the media focus enormously when something happens here, at the Rikshospitalet-Radium Hospital and at Ullevål University Hospital. What I experience is happening, among other things. that when it comes to making changes, strong professional environments are positioned. They are intensifying the fight for their environments and crisis maximisation, including: by pushing patients in front of them. In the case of deficits, they are due to some activity growth, but they are also due, as underlined by the Council of State, to a lack of governance, a lack of economic competence and the wrong attitudes of some leaders. I am in fact surprised that it is possible to hire a number of doctors for whom there is no budgetary coverage, and that it is possible to order a patient hotel without a decision to build it. It has been said several times from this pulpit that many hospitals do too many things. This is e.g.. the need for fewer hospitals to perform specialised cancer surgery, for example in breast cancer and rectal cancer. The hospitals that achieve good results, i.e. has the highest survival rate, must carry out such treatment. A centralisation here is necessary based on the quality of the treatment. At the same time, the Centre Party is concerned that tasks should be moved from the major hospitals. This has also been mentioned earlier by the Council of State. Therefore, centralisation in cancer surgery does not mean a deterioration of local hospitals. On the contrary, there are a number of tasks that they can solve in relation to the population for which they are responsible. I think this is good for both patients, for the relatives and also for good use of resources. Everything that can be moved out of the major hospitals will also be a good health economy. I show you, among other things: to an entry in the Dagsrevyen last Thursday from the University Hospital in North Norway, where it was found that unnecessary and costly examinations are carried out at the hospital because necessary tests and examinations, which can be done by regular or out of hospital, are not sufficiently performed. This and other factors show that strengthening primary health services and e.g.. an increased number of contract specialists can be good measures to reduce demand and increase costs in the hospital sector. The Health and Welfare Committee will be informed later today of the capital project. The background to the project is to see the specialist offer in the capital area in the context. The keywords are functional sharing, quality and capacity, and the organisation and adaptation of hospital services in the capital area within the framework provided. We're looking forward to that. So a little bit more talked about models. Everyone knows that today's hospital model is not the Center Party model. But the debate on hospital models can be a derailment, because the problems many hospitals face are about taking responsibility within the organisational frameworks given. The centre party will come back to organisational models later, but managing the budget is a management responsibility regardless of the type of organisational model that lies there. Otherwise, I would also like to say that with regard to the proposal to send this statement to the committee, we think it is an all right proposal, so we support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e425	That's good to hear.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e429	I would first like to thank the Council of State for the distribution. It was a thorough and useful arrangement. But every time the Council of State is going to give the Storting information about the financial status of the hospital sector, tell her about all the money that's been paid, and the mantra is that it's never given us more money for the specialist services than it is now. And then we'll hear about all the patients that are treated, there never have been any more there either. That was a bit of the birthright we heard today. For obvious reasons, it sounds like real sunshine stories, but reality is a whole different thing. All health professionals in the country, without exception, are talking about dramatic budget cuts and cuts and closures. So the reality is that there is a total disharmony between what the Government and the Health Council are preaching, and the health authorities and those who are adding experience every day. The reform of the health sector, which was opposed by the Left, was intended, inter alia, to: lead to harmony between vows and consumption. History has established that the deficits have never been greater than after the health reforms entered into force. So we have to state that the corporate reform as an economic governance tool has our failure. I think we can also ask if the reform has led to better health services and better quality. On the basis of the Health Inspectorate's report on emergency reception, which was mentioned in the media as late as yesterday, the conclusion must also be that health care reform is hardly positive in this respect. We have also read that some of the top people we have in Norway in medicine have said that the cause of poor quality in emergency services is bone-hard cuts and constant reorganizations. Some people talk about it having our strong cuts in the number of sick people, and it is true that it is if we look at it historically. It has been a strong downturn, and it should have been. But this has been too bad on medical beds. We also see that in the context of this reduction, which has been going on for many years, the health care reform has also failed to correct the course, although it should be rather obvious because of an increasingly ageing population. I think I have to do some more examples. It has our focus on health south-east, and we need to hear more about it and especially about the capital reform system later today. But has the combination of Health South and Health East been any solution to gain control of the economy? I mean, there's a record deficit that's being served, that's the opposite of what was expected. And to everything, we've read that the addition of medical specialists is completely out of control. In recent years, there have been twice as many additions. And there's also evidence that this isn't going to work out. The Council of State said in its speech that she has taken the initiative of a kind of control selection for adding to each hospital. If necessary, I would say that then it really is a failure statement for the governance of healthcare professionals. I'll go a little quickly to some possible solutions. Left thinks we need to bet more on the primary level. We have 280 medical clinics for the sick, and here I think we need a strong reinforcement. More final treatment at this level will provide our oldest and sickest better and more dignified treatment, and we will reduce the pressure on hospitalisation. Others, including: Ballo, we've been told that we need to strengthen our fixed resources. I think that's also an important point. The councils were in on it, too. We have to get more fixed, and they have to spend more time on each patient, I think. We know that if these gatekeepers don't do their job, the flow of patients towards hospitals will be very large. We know that a change in fixed reference policy of just 1 pst. will change the load on the specialist service by 20 pst. So I think the main medicine here is the prevention and strengthening of primary health care. Finally, I just want to make it clear that the Left will support the proposal put forward by the representative Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e450	I think this debate has shown very well that this is not a matter where there are simple solutions, and it is a sector that is also very demanding to govern. But I disagree with the speakers who have said that there have been no positive changes since the state took over the hospitals. Because we treat more patients, we have improved quality by, for example: have had centralized breast cancer surgery, which causes more people to survive, and there is increased activity. So it doesn't matter to say that this sector is in crisis, when we're proven to be at the top of the world in the number of doctors, nurses and in the use of money. That doesn't mean that everything is perfect-- not at all. The monitoring report on the emergency response yesterday showed that it is not, and we are going to take it seriously. But this is a sector that constantly has to deal with transformations. I believe that this is absolutely necessary for the quality of patients. When we go through a period, for example: had a lot of controversy about the neurosurgery being moved from Stavanger to Bergen, which I decided because I think it is absolutely necessary and right for the patients, there were many torches, many demonstrations, and I also registered representatives in this room who were strongly opposed to it. I'm concerned that we need to talk to one tongue. Because the size gives x the number of dollars to hospitals, x the number of dollars to municipalities and roads, and so that's the amount you should stick to, and I sincerely hope that the Stortinget means. It's not like someone can have private banknote presses and say, "I want a little bit more, so I just spend money, and then I expect that I'll get it afterwards." I'm trying to do my job as Minister of Health and say, that's what you've been assigned to. And then it doesn't help to say, we hired a lot more doctors, because we thought we needed it, and then it just gets paid back. No, it's over. That's why there's going to be so much resistance. I would also like to say that it is clear that when changes have to be made in terms of quality, there will be trouble. But we have to go through it, because more people will survive, and more people will get better patient treatment that way. As Ballo, Bøhler, Skjellaa and several speakers have said, we need to centralize more in terms of the quality of what we have to be good at: surgery, training in relation to serious diseases, and then we also need to decentralize even more of what we can and should do closer where people live. Then there are no simple solutions, as I see it. Is the answer: yes, we give another billion or another two, this is solved. No, I mean it's wrong. I think it's wrong, because I fully agree with the representative, Ballo, who says that we can't just give money into a system until we sort it out. Will they then stop hiring many more doctors and nurses than they have money for? Will they then make sure to deal with the limits they have? No, I don't think so. Obviously, this sector will receive more money over the years to come. It was just supposed to be missing, because we're going to be proud that we have a good public health service with equivalent health services. But we have to sort out what is systematically wrong, and that someone is going to fix up and spend money they don't have. Then someone says that the conversions are just to the negative. No, they're not. When I got into the government offices -- this with a special address to the Right and Christian People's Party, which was then in government, and both parties have also had the Minister of Health -- the economy in Health Mid-Norway was out of control, for example. at St. Olav's Hospital. I said, the same rules apply to you as to others, there's one set of money, and you just have to relate to it. What is the situation today? They've been shot on the right keel in relation to the economy, they've gotten better quality in treatment, fewer Corridor Asians and a number of other things. It shows that it is useful to convert, and it shows that it is useful, when one is on the requirements, to set up a wall, which I believe is absolutely necessary. Then I hope that the Storting is with me that we actually have to make sure that everyone in our society is dealing with some framework, just as we as individuals also have to make sure that we have order in the economy. Otherwise, it usually doesn't go so well. Then I completely disagree with the representative Sandberg, who says this is out of control. No, that's not it. I can refer to a large number of steering handles that we have taken. For example, when it comes to staffing - as the Riksrevision pointed out yesterday, and I fully agree with the Riksrevision - that is what I am now trying to do, by having to go to detailed management and say that there must be a sample at every local health care company to make sure that no more is hired than it should. We do not have a bad patient treatment in Norway, if we see the country as a whole. There are single events, there are emergency receptions, etc. We need to do better, but the most important thing is that we are doing something to ensure a publicly funded health care system with equivalent services, that we are making even more efforts to prevent people from becoming ill, better interaction between the different levels, and that we are getting better quality in what we are actually offering. There are some blows, there's going to be more trouble, but I also hope the Storting agrees that we have to deal with the decisions Stortinget has to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e467	The debate on the presentation of the Minister of Health and Welfare has ended. The representative Per Sandberg has made a proposal to forward the Minister of Health's presentation to the Stortinget Committee. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e482	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e491	Unearned retirement is one of the most important welfare schemes we have. It's our common insurance policy when health fails. Let it be the starting point for this debate. At the same time, however, there is cause for concern. By the end of 2007, there were 333,544 disabled people. There's a lot of them. 32 184 new ones came into existence in the course of the year. On an annual basis, around 570,000 annual works are lost due to unemployment or loss of employment, in a labour market requiring 132 400 more workers, including 44 pst. of the enterprises have recruitment problems. Despite regulatory tightenings, the number of unemployed has been more than doubled since 1980. Much of the growth, but not all, is explained by several older people in the population. Growth seems to slow down somewhat, but at the same time we see trends in growth in the proportion of people under 30 years of age. There is therefore a cross-political consensus on the need for measures that could dampen growth. The social justification is that we need labour, but the most important is welfare policy. A lot of bad guys will work either, but they won't. It may be due to attitudes, lack of organisation or qualifications. The point is that almost 81 000 carry out vocational retraining. The question is whether there will be lasting results of the effort. There was one of several important issues in the Storting process of the Communication on Work, Welfare and Inclusion, where we drew up the main lines of what should give substance to the NAV reform. Focusing on mastering, working ability, active measures, prevention and early intervention, means and ability to work must be given greater emphasis than before. It imposes new requirements on working methods and competence in the labour and welfare services and the NAV Office. An important part of the new is to build networks of good helpers in the environment of the NAV Office. The labour market enterprises are faced with such good helpers. That's how far we agree. Where we're separating layers, all of this is now ripe to highlight one measure rather than the other, especially the PIA project at Durapart AS. The Labour and Social Committee has been visited by many companies, with different arrangements. We've often let ourselves be impressed. Three months ago, we were at Durapart in Arendal. It was probably more than I got lumps in my throat when we heard about the well-aged woman who had really given up. She came into the PIA project, which takes them as no one else will have--the ones with chronic, complex plagues, muscle and skeletal disorders, pains without objective findings, anxiety and depression plagues, done in the firm, without activity and treatment offers, long periods of inactivity, low self-image and uncertainty of the future. The whole human being is also about close relationships, children, parents, lifelong relationships, friends, colleagues. In this case, the problem was a drug addict son. Durapart arranged place for him. The mother lowered her shoulders, took three years of social education and was ready for work. And it's not just the committee that has let itself be impressed. It was also done by the state councils Hanssen and Grande Røys when they visited the company in January this year. At the same time, I want to mention a few other examples, from other companies. On the websites of reinsurance companies, we read: ‘Toddlers from Konnerud are self-confidential. She's finally at work." She had been without for eight years and couldn't afford anything. Then Dias AS took hold of her. At first pay, there was a bicycle on the daughter. ‘Education is not the way for you.’ That message was given to a 16-year-old from Oslo. Now he's 25 and he's studying - thanks to the Sens reconnaissance company. As they said, we figured out that he had a lot of resources. The point is not that these are better than the PIA. The point is that there's a lot that's good, in many places. And-- it's important to learn from what's good. Durapart's got to do research on the PIA. In Agderposten, the project manager tells us that many people want to use the program, but they still keep it up for now. We want to make sure this is a good product before we share it, he says. That's wise words. Governments are in favour of trying to contribute to the research project. That's also wise. Because we need good methods that work. If what was expected is what the proposers want, that the PIA become nationwide, can become reality in a short time. But the majority, all except the Right and the Advance Party, will wait for the research. It does not prohibit anyone from being inspired by Durapart now, but means quality assurance before any nationwide scheme. The majority today propose that the minority's proposals be annexed to the Minutes. That does not mean that the proposal should be included in the forgotten book.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e518	More than 300,000 people today live as unemployees, and for the current year an increase of more than 30 000 is estimated. This is a challenge and concern over increased public costs, reduced tax access, labour shortages and very many people without activity and social networks. So how do we meet these challenges? NAV figures show that only 50 pst. by all those who follow a course of health benefits, rehabilitation benefits and re-routing benefits, come back to work. This number is too bad. The PIA project directed by Durapart in Arendal has had 200 people in its system since its launch. Only 5 pst. Of these went into disability. This number is very good. Today's labour market is good. It's screaming for labor. But then there's a large group of people who are basically healthy enough to be at work, only they get the little extra that they need to deal with working life. It does not hold competence if a disability or illness has arisen, or you are struggling with social distress or have other concerns that take a lot of energy. Learning to live with your situation requires guidance and help, and it takes time. Even grumbling I fell as I suddenly grew up to have asthma. I just thought it couldn't be right, and I didn't take the drugs I was prescribed, with the dramatic consequences this was having. I scared the water of relatives and neighbors when I was acutely not breathing, on several occasions. Finally, I accepted that I had to take these medications. It took a long time to try and fail before the optimal drugs were found. Since I breathed so well again, I quit the medicine, when I thought I had recovered. It wasn't very clever. In this time I got no information or help at all -- which made it take a whole year and a half before I worked normally. This is an unnecessary long time. The PIA project could refer to several examples of people with complex problems, who themselves were not so serious or profound in the individual, but who were enough to prevent them from working there and then. With simple grips, conversation groups, training and personal follow-up, they could refer to very good results, which it is difficult to understand that the Government will let go. We will have to wait and see, is the review tone in relation to most of the proposals that are being promoted in this Chamber. The problem is that those who are out of the labour market today do not have time to wait. The longer they have to wait for the right offer, the less is the chance to succeed. I have particular faith in the value base of the PIA project, which is to look at man completely through the focus on interaction between work and leisure, between body and mind, and between the participant and his closest. There's a relationship between how you feel and how you take it. Projects such as the PIA and the like will be particularly important to put in place now, as the number of people going through a re-routing process has now increased. I'm thinking about the qualification program. According to the Municipal Report of 24 January this year, 15 young people under the age of 25 living with social assistance have started up in the PIA project. In the article we get a good insight into a young couple's thoughts and dreams and belief in the future with the new beginning they feel they have now received. These are not sick enough to get disability benefits, but are not ready to go straight to work either. This is why they have lived for several years through social assistance. I think it's unusually tough of Durapart to bet on this group, which we know from experience is the heaviest group to succeed with. This shows how much faith you have in the design and offer of the project. I also believe in this concept and find it difficult to understand why the majority do not readily grasp the opportunity presented to them, not least in view of the qualification programme, which comes too far in the municipality after the municipality. Projects of this kind and with this content we will need a lot in the future. I would like to take up the proposals that the Committee on Development and Cooperation, together with the Right, has put forward in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e553	The representative of Kari Kjønaas Kjos has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e556	When the red-green government joined, Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen was careful to point to the objective of his work, namely to help people who live by social security, to work. The right fully shares this objective. And as the Council of State has also said on several occasions: the way out of poverty traps is through participation in the labour market. In the right, we have formulated this as a ‘new chance’ policy. We want a working life with space for everyone, where anyone who falls outside is going to have a new chance. This is a concrete continuation of the policy we pursued together with the Christian People's Party and the Left in government. With this in mind, we have promoted a number of proposals here in Stortinget on how to reduce the rate of unemployment by helping people at risk of falling out of work. In our alternative government budget proposals, we have made it clear how we want to prioritise this, and we have launched several comprehensive packages both to reduce sick leave, to get people from social security to work, and to reduce poverty in Norway. When I take the opportunity to give this brief historical review, it's because what we're experiencing today is an attempt at creative history from the government parties. Today, we are discussing a proposal to use experience from a very successful and good return project at Durapart in Arendal to create similar arrangements elsewhere in the country. Unfortunately, the proposal will not be adopted, as the government parties have obviously decided that any initiative by the opposition in the Storting should be put to the vote. Then the government parties themselves relaunch themselves shortly after the same initiative and suggestions in a red-green theme, and with an ever-increasing light of Soria Moria in the background. This time I believe this has gone too far. In the Agderpost on 25 January it is referred to a visit of the Council of State had at Durapart the day in advance: ‘Ministries Bjarne Håkon Hanssen and Heidi Grande Røys will use Durapart as an exhibition window for the whole country, and are far from suggesting money for a major research project on the Durapart effect.’ Furthermore, the Minister for Labour and Inclusion states: ‘I have no doubt that we will use this elsewhere in the country. Several other counties have a course, but not as professional as here. Nav also does not use such an enterprise in the same way elsewhere, he adds” – i.e. councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen. This is good and good, and reason to rejoice, but the more disappointing it is that you do not follow up from the government parties in the committee's examination of the matter. Because here in Stortinget, therefore, the representatives of the government parties are sitting and voting down - it looks like - a proposal to do exactly what the council itself clearly indicates the need. Either this is a rash of poor channels of communication between the government council and his people in Stortinget, or this is a new record of government arrogance. The government actually relaunches proposals before they have pulled down a corresponding vote from the opposition in Stortinget. It's alarming. When the Committee visited Durapart in May 2007, we were presented to their PIA project, which offers job-oriented rehabilitation to people at risk of falling out of work and who have health and work problems. This is a group that often falls between two chairs in the system, between health care and NAV. The PIA focuses on lifelong learning, that one has to master things in everyday life to master work-- and vice versa. Durapart has gained recognition from many teams both for the good contact with the local NAV apparatus and for the results where only 5 pst. has ended up applying for disability benefit after the end of the race. Although it is currently not possible to measure any long-term impact of the project, these are so strikingly good results that they should be followed up with concrete action. That was perhaps also what the Council of State intended to do in its Christmas greeting in Agderposten. The work of helping people from social security to work by giving people a new chance will never be good enough. That is exactly why we must have good experience. The Right and Advance Party have made concrete proposals on how to organise and finance PIA-like projects. Hanssen State Council has been talking a lot about the same goals that we are addressing here for two and a half years. Now it is probably soon time for the Workers' Party and the Government to begin to act and show how they have actually intended to achieve their goals of getting more insured out of work - and not just letting talk and new investigations.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e581	I'm as convinced as the Council of State was before Christmas that the PIA method is going to be used forward by NAV - in the form it has now, or in various adaptations. This is because the Council of State and the majority of the Grand Duchy are concerned that NAV should use several types of methods in its work to succeed. Good labour market measures and early and quality assistance with regard to health problems and training needs are effective. Looks like we've got a long time. What we also know is that it works for people who have serious and long-lasting chronic and complex needs. The PIA project, which is one of several projects visited by the Committee, is also an offer developed by people with competence and experience in the reintroduction work. And that's good. Those who work with the case often know this better than others. If the line of work is to succeed, all good methods must be used to help more master their lives and gain the skills - which are the entrance ticket to work. Over many years I have unfortunately seen a lot of good and successful projects being scrapped in spite of good results, and I have been tricking them into doing so. It derails those who work in the field, who have competence in this and can really contribute with people, but it also devalues those who need help, because it seems that they should not have access to the measures that actually work. A major challenge that the Council of State has is how we can manage to create systems that capture the fact that good projects that are being developed actually become methods that the whole country can implement. But then I don't think the way to go is that the Storting will decide each method separately and tell you to use it, and you will use it. I want to remind the Committee of one of the first trips the Committee made to my home country, Hedmark, where we looked at a project called SAVIS, which was a completely different type of project, but actually caught up with some of the same people. There was formal competence, and now several of the participants actually attend higher education, and most of them have completed secondary education and vocational training. The work now undertaken by the Government on regulatory simplification is important and must pave the way for the use of methods based on the idea of individual adaptation. This must not be the way I heard when I visited a NAV office a few weeks ago: we have to fill out the places on the courses we have bought. Here are some users. They need a completely different offer, but we don't get any money for that. It can't go on like that. All the good practices that are now being developed around the country and the beach must be a menu for the NAV offices, and especially for those who are unemployed and who have health problems and skills needs. A lot of what's needed around these people is like that. The PIA has been good at, they're good at seeing the human being as a whole. If what the representative Lise Christoffersen said is that you have a drug addict in your family, it's clear that getting it fixed and helping with that problem helps you to concentrate on a race that leads to getting skills and getting out of work. However, there are grey areas between health services, labour and social affairs and the training sector, and the sectors need to cooperate. You've done it in the PIA project. It has also been done in a number of other projects, and some of them are still alive, while some of them are unfortunately closed down. So we have to put an end to the system that makes good projects that really help people stop being projects. Permanent methods must be available at all times. So to the debate on the great increase in the number of miscarriages. It's a big problem that disabled people get discouraged, and are motivated to go to social security, as we hear stories about. But I think that perhaps the most important area of action we have to look at now is young people and young people with difficult lives. There's an assault, there's a disease in the home, there's a rush, there's social problems in the home. When we know that three out of four young people who are out of child protection are entitled to social assistance, and many of them have a further career towards disability, we know where to start, and then we need both PIA methods and a number of other methods to succeed in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e600	The right-wing proposers want Durapart’s ‘Person in Work’ project to be developed into a national pilot project. I fully share the impatience behind the proposal. Efforts are being made throughout the country to prevent the transition from work to social security and to increase the transition from one country to another. I have never been in doubt about the commitment and wanted to do this either in the big, department, NAV or with some of the NAV's many partners. There are many people who can tell us that the work is successful. Nevertheless, we do not see that this results in measurable reductions in the number of people who become dependent on social security benefits. The number of new recipients of unfinished benefits in 2007 has remained stable over 30 000 in recent years. In fact, the number of new beneficiaries in 2007 was the highest as far as that decade. And the total number of recipients is ten times the number of new recipients. So there's every reason to be impatient and to have the main focus of the whole management of work and welfare on what can be done to bring down these numbers. Both in the committee position and in previous articles in the debate here, a lot of well-deserved tribute has been given to Durapart in Arendal and to the project ‘Person in Work’. It is exciting and uplifting to see and hear about the idea behind the project and about preliminary results. To see the whole human being -- to think of work and physical and mental health integrated into a work-training process -- is basically right. I think it's also necessary to achieve lasting, positive results. I am pleased that the majority in the Committee emphasises that we expect NAV to actively contribute to spreading good ideas and experience to other labour market enterprises elsewhere in the country. I am convinced that both NAV and labour market businesses all over the country want to achieve a strong success in the process of returning to work. Therefore, I hope and believe that experience is spread independently of state regulations. I have the basic confidence in the labour market companies that innovation and innovation are at stake. And I have the confidence in NAV that they encourage, and not hinder, such innovation. Then I also share the view of the majority of the committee that the level of requirements for formal organisation of such exchange of experience must depend on how well documented the experience is. Good ideas that have promising results must be passed on, and they must be encouraged. But I strongly doubt whether political instructions on how to organise this, based on the impressions of state council visits or committee visits, will do good in the long run. In the case of Durapart, the most important thing now is to ensure that the project can be continued and that a good evaluation can be made. I interpret the statements of the Council of State so that he will actively contribute to this, both with and without the breath of the committee in the neck. Unfortunately, the Council of State and the Government have already withdrawn money from Durapart and the other labour market enterprises that they had needed in order to develop their offers further. In any case, the possibility of further developing ‘Person in work’ is not improved by the real cut in the appropriations allocated to labour market enterprises from 2007 to 2008. I still think that the reason the Council of State has given for this is thin, and probably deserves a higher character for artistic design than for content. I wish the Council of State could use this debate to give more positive signals about a change of course than he has so far given.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e615	Our traditional welfare hierarchy gave us high thresholds between rehabilitation and rehabilitation. The NAV reform has brought together social security and labour market laws, and labour-oriented rehabilitation is getting its natural place in our efforts to help sick people return to work. We are now meeting the announced collection of rehabilitation money, re-routing money and temporary disability benefits in one scheme, which is necessary in order to take a closer look at the individual’s needs for services than at the system’s needs for schemes. In this way, I see the representative proposal from Engeset, Skovholt Gitmark and Sjøli as a constructive contribution to our efforts to prioritize measures in the field of vocational rehabilitation. It is important to draw inspiration from actions that we see work, when we now need to increase efforts to strengthen people's chances of returning to work through coordination of the means available to us. The Labour and Social Committee has been visiting Durapart AS and has been given the opportunity to learn about the PIA project. In the past, we have also visited the Friskgården in Trøndelag, which is another measure within the same scope. Also there was the offer that was given, linked to providing assistance to lifelong learning by seeing the human being as a whole. Sick workers are offered the possibility of rehabilitation of their suffering in combination with work training. The results are very good, and there are now nine Refreshers in three counties. The fact that the rehabilitation period and the recovery period are seen together has proved to be important. The PIA and the Friskgården, together with other offers that are certainly also established, are arrangements we hardly need to set up against each other, but consider as important contributions to the development of labour-oriented rehabilitation that we are now going to invest much more in. Through the Attführungszentrum in Rauland and Hernes Institute, we also have important environments of expertise in the field that assist, among other things. the PIA project with competence and development of actions. I fully share the wish of the proposers to reduce take-offs to disadvantages by focusing on measures for work and lifelong learning. Not least in the last few days, we have seen research reports explaining how many people feel that permanent insurance is the solution because auxiliaries, both medical and NAV, are not preparing for them as they had hoped and thought they would. I therefore share the intentions of the proposers, but, together with the majority of the Committee, I am uncertain as to whether the best way to focus on increased efforts in the field of labour-oriented rehabilitation is to point to the PIA project as the one ‘real’ solution. We are now in a period of development in which our work and welfare apparatus is coordinated through NAV. Through the IA agreement, we have had new arrangements for health and rehabilitation services for sick persons. I would not like to point out individual schemes through which these new instruments are to be channelled. Fortunately, we have more players to play with. It is important that we use them and that assessments of the results achieved by the different actors are carried out. In the years ahead, I hope we will spend more resources on vocational rehabilitation. Then it is important that we get the knowledge of how different offers work, so that the auxiliaries can provide references that are as accurate as possible. Its perception that we do not follow up the proposals of the Right and the Progressive Party because it is a proposal from the opposition, and that it will probably come back just to us being allowed to come up with it ourselves, is therefore not a proper approach to the debate we have here. What is the reality is that the whole Stortinget wants a stronger commitment to vocational rehabilitation. But right now, we are sceptical about saying that there is one scheme, one that will serve as the basis for how we will do this in the future. Fortunately, there are too many good actors with us in our work further.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e634	The intentions of the proposers to reduce take-offs to disability benefits by investing in work and lifelong learning measures are good, and I fully share them. But the Left wants an overall assessment of health and rehabilitation service grants, where one is also given an assessment of the PIA project. The left will point out that NAV must take with it the positive experience of that project in order to stimulate similar projects with holistic strength, which have been discussed so far. The left also considers it important to stimulate cooperation solutions between management companies and local businesses or NAVs and local actors. Furthermore, I would like to point out what has been said by the Working and Welfare Act, which states that, despite the fact that participants continue in other measures for people with disabilities, there is no evaluation or research on what happens over time with participants who have implemented the programme. Furthermore, experience with the PIA project is limited and the measure has not yet been evaluated, but feedback is positive. It is also said that experience shows that this offer requires more thorough preparation before it is started. It is also pointed out that the measure is organised in such a way that it depends on specific factors that are not necessarily transferable to a nationwide offer. From this point of view, I think it is natural to await the Government's evaluation, so that we can look at it more closely, as many have been involved. Otherwise, I share the rapporteur's views on this matter. I can also mention that there is a lot of good refurbishment work around the country. As mentioned, we have some experience with the Friskgården. The representative Sundsbø mentioned in his statement that these farms are doing a good job, which has been tested over time. I have no doubt that the PIA project could also be a nationwide offer. But as I said, I want an evaluation to see how this should be done. I believe that diversity in this sector is important, so that individualised services are available, so that the user is given the best possible offer. After all, it's all the user who has to be in focus, not the system as such. Finally, I would like to mention that some of the things that make us have to have diversity in the offer, and that gets clearer and clearer, are the big take-off we have in relation to young decapitators, which we seem to be dropping. It's clear that we need to have an offer that's diverse enough for us to pick up more, so we have the opportunity to tailor it to the user.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e650	I will start by saying that I also agree with the assessments made in the statements made by the rapporteur. I just want to say briefly that I agree very much with the reasons that came up. But then I must also be allowed to say that I have to admit that I have some doubts as to what is really the Right Party and the Progress Party proposes in Document No. The 8th proposal. Is it considered that the department should decide that reintroduction holdings around the country should set up offers in line with the PIA project? Is it considered that a directive should be issued by the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Inclusion that offers should now be made to all repatriation establishments in line with what is planned in the PIA project? In that case, should it mean that re-introduction companies, which have their own other arrangements that work very well, are required to stop what works, to replace it with the PIA? Or is that not what you think, when you say that you should ask the Government to take the initiative that day-care services with vocational rehabilitation, in accordance with the model of the PIA project, can be established on a national basis? If it's just a wish that it should happen, it could happen today. There is no prohibition on establishing that type of project around the relaying companies. So I must honestly say that I am very in doubt about what is proposed. Not least, I think it is important that we should be aware that Durapart in Arendal has spent many years developing his concept and having linked to contacts in the health sector, lawyers, psychologists, the Coastal Hospital and the Rauland re-routing centre. Many resources have been used to identify the right course managers to build up qualitatively sound competences. The course leaders themselves have conducted lifelong studies at the Diakon home in Oslo, as well as a course in cognitive therapy. If there are equivalent qualifications to be required around, at least there will be good times for those setting up a course in cognitive therapy, if all staff in rehab companies are now required to have it. Does this mean, in the next round, that the Committee will gradually go out and look at the implementation and establishment of permanent work, VTA, go elsewhere and look at how to organise work with assistance, travel a third place and look at how to organise AMO courses, and then we will take decisions in the Grand Duchy that the Government will now instruct how to implement VTA, how to conduct AMO courses, and how to carry out the work of assistance? Are we going to have a pattern for the reintroduction companies where we are going to determine centrally in Stortinget what kind of course system to implement? Or is there something quite different in the Right opinion? So I have to say I'm very pleased with the majority. If this had been the great conspiracy theory that now we should vote down the proposal, then to launch it, at least the Right Party and the Advance Party do not have much confidence in their good colleagues in the Christian People's Party and the Left, who have then agreed to this great conspiracy on the part of the Government. Finally, for the sake of order, I will address the two quotations that the representative Mr Engeset made in his speech, which were linked to my visit with the Minister of Renewal at Durapart on 24 February. The first quote is about the PIA project. There I go a long way in suggesting money for a large research project. That's right. The second quote is about the qualification programme, because the special thing about Durapart is that they also, in cooperation with NAV Arendal, offer qualification programmes in the recruitment company. It was very interesting, and it was a kind of course that gave very good results. But it's a quotation that has nothing to do with the PIA project.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e673	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e676	It's kind of strange to hear that you're voting on proposals that you haven't understood anything about, but I'm going to leave it. I have a question about the qualification programme, which is now to be implemented across the country. The fact that those who are going into this programme do not have other rights means that these people have either been away from work for a long time or have not moved into it at all. At the same time, we know that very many of these have complex problems and poor health. What action is the Council of State going to take to ensure that good offers adapted to this particular group become available throughout the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e683	For information purposes, government councils do not even have voting rights in the Stortinget, so I have no intention of voting down anything. I have just asked some - in my opinion - relevant questions relating to this proposal. So I would like to say that there is no doubt that what the committee's chairman was also involved in his statement is a very important and relevant question, namely, how do we manage to disseminate the good experience that we make from a variety of different actions in a variety of recruitment companies? There is no doubt, as the committee's chairman also says, that in this area we are too bad. We have too poor systems for different actors to learn from each other. How should management companies gain positive experience from the knowledge of the PIA project and the PIA project gain positive experience from knowledge of other projects? There we are too bad, and it is among the issues that it is absolutely relevant that I take up with NAV - the Directorate of Labour and Welfare - in order to get better systems.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e690	This has been in many ways a rather strange debate, in the sense that I rarely experience so many good words and so much favor from political opponents and competitors in relation to a political proposal Right has promoted. The more frustrating it is then that as a follow-up to these good words and this honor I feel that not the Council of State, but his party traps here in the Stortinget and his collaborators vote down the proposals of the Right and Advance Party. I must also say that I am quite disappointed that the Council of State in its contribution gave the impression and almost tried to ridicule the proposals we are making. I didn't expect that. But at the same time, what the Council of State said now works, and what he said to Agderposten on 25 January, as if he there and then understood our proposals correctly. Because that's actually the intention, to use this as an exhibition window for the whole country, and there the council even talked about that he wanted to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e695	I have great respect for the Parliamentary Chair and the representatives of the Stortinge. It's not my intention at all to ridicule anything, and to the extent that it's created the impression, it's a mistake. I now understand the representative Engeset that what is proposed is that we should tell about the PIA project around the country. Because now the representative says that the point is to turn the PIA into an exhibition window. Is that the proposal that we should make a major information campaign about the PIA project? As I initially imagined, it was a requirement that this project be established around. In his question, the representative Engeset does not exactly help to clarify what the intentions are. Is there an exhibition window in Arendal to show, or is this project to be established everywhere?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e702	The Soria Moria Declaration states that it is to be committed to active restocking, as it is done in Arendal. The Christian People's Party supports such a strategy. Will the Council of State give Durapart money to a research project, as he went a long way in promising during his visit there? Many of the country’s 350 recruitment and VTA companies send us daily concerns messages because of under-regulation of the recruitment service. Can the Council of State reassure them that the rates are being raised or that they are getting more money in the revised budget for spring?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e707	First of all, it is not that I am able to deal with applications that have been made from the Parliamentary Chair. We're in a dialogue with Durapart about funding a research project related to the PIA. I'm fundamentally positive with that. If we're able to get completely into the goal, what kind of sums, and how much the state should have in it all, we haven't yet decided, but I'm following the intentions of the representative Woie Duesund that it's important to try to fund a research around the PIA. On the second question, it is enough that the management companies have got the budget they have to deal with for 2008, and they have to. As I have said to the representative Woie Duesund before, I am aware that this is challenging, but not impossible. They've done worse before, so the budget applies.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e714	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e719	One of the remarkable points of this debate, I think, has been that someone has tried to give the impression that our proposal will have the effect that the PIA project is going to be distorted for other good projects. Then I must say that in that case it is a deliberate misunderstanding. Of course, we've never thought that that project is going to take over other good projects. As a social committee, we have traveled around - as it is described - to a number of exciting, competent recruitment companies and have presented a number of good projects. But I share the concern that Karin Andersen expressed in his post, because we experience that very many of the good projects actually don't survive. The intention of our proposal is just to raise a good project that has so far demonstrated very good results in a community area where we are all struggling to achieve good results. Our intention was to let this project be lifted up to the inspiration of others, that it would be an exhibition window, and that others could learn from the experience they've had with Durapart. That's why I was really quite lifted above what the Council of State said to the Agderpost, but I think there's basically little connection between that and what we've seen here in the Storting: you don't follow up on the positive statements. In this area, we are more than dependent on letting the thousands of flowers bloom, giving the good projects a safe life and a secure funding. Ad hoc work must not be what it becomes, but that you can continue the good projects that produce results, in far more places than just one. That was the intention of our proposal. I think the debate shows that someone seems to read suggestions that a certain man reads the Bible: you take everything in the worst sense, instead of looking at what you actually want to do. I think that's sad and a little constructive.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e733	My view is that the committee has followed up the good intentions that Martin Engeset was now in the pulpit and that was in the proposal, saying that all good methods should be made available throughout the country. But what we feel is wrong is that the Storting should point out the method by method, which will then be applied nationally. The intention of the AVI Communication, to which there was broad political support, was that it was in the meeting between the NAV budget, the auxiliaries and the individual to decide which measures to use. We're not there yet. Competence is lacking in many places. You're short on resources. There is a lack of regulatory simplification that makes this possible. We agree to that in place. The important thing for the majority of the Committee is to say that there are many methods that should be used throughout the country. The thousand flowers shall blossom," says Engeset. Yes - and it should be perennial, so that they can survive from year to year and can be used over and over again. The way you've worked until now, with projects that get funding for a while, and that then disappear -- almost regardless of whether they've been good or bad -- is a way that we have to move away from. We need, as the Council of State says, to set up systems that will enable the entire NAV apparatus to know the good methods, and that will also make it possible to finance these methods, which we have as our task, and we need to have legislation, so that the good methods can be applied on the basis of an individual assessment. That is the intention of the majority. I don't think it's necessary in a way to give the majority an intention that we want to be difficult and don't want to get this to. That's not right. What's right is that, on the contrary, we want to make even more methods available.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e746	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2177]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e761	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from the Council of State in the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e770	Three representatives from the Left have proposed the establishment of a national competence centre to address health damage related to chemical use. During the consultation, a number of organisations came with useful input and knowledge. There is a broad consensus on the Storting to focus more attention on chemical damage in the workplace. An overall committee agrees with the description of the situation by the proposers. There have been serious individual cases, including: related to oil workers in the North Sea, North Sea divers, dental staff, farmers and researchers in university laboratories. New areas where there may be health damage related to chemical use are constantly being identified. These injuries may be underestimated. We still lack basic knowledge of how dangerous these chemicals are for health and the environment. According to the 2006 Life Force Survey of the Central Statistical Office, about 8 pst. by the workforce during most of the working time exposed to skin irritants or chemicals, in the form of dust, gas or vapour. A report from the National Institute for Safety and Health at Work refers to international studies that estimate that about 15 pst. of the cases of asthma, coal and lung cancer among men are caused in the working environment. The 1998 Labour Inspectorate's estimate showed that about 3 pst. due to sick leave in Norway due to exposure to chemicals. This is therefore an important reason for exclusion from the labour market. Workers in the petroleum sector are likely to have had long-term effects due to exposure to hazardous chemicals. I am pleased that this group is now getting better medical follow-up and common guidelines for patient investigation, so that a better basis for assessing applications for occupational injury replacement is provided. The Party of Progress, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left reiterate previous demands that consideration be given to whether oil workers who have been harmed by chemical exposure should receive a reasonable compensation. It is frightening that, as recently as in 2005, the Petroleum Authority revealed that many companies did not meet the requirements for chemical risk assessment. They had an unnecessarily large portfolio of chemicals with a high health hazard and ran to a small extent with the phasing out of hazardous substances. It is positive that in 2006 the Government established National Monitoring of Work Environment and Health, NOA, at the State Institute for Safety and Health at Work, STAMI, which is an independent management body. The Committee recently visited STAMI and was impressed by research at a high international level. The Committee feels that it is positive that 50 pst. the resources of STAMI are allocated to the chemical work environment and have as their main field of activity. Together with the occupational health services and occupational health departments, STAMI is at the heart of the Norwegian professional environment in work and health. There are modest levels of other professional environments that can make assessments in this field. The Committee concludes on several of the consultation opinions that point to the low level of the Norwegian professional environment. All parties, with the exception of the Left, stress that the establishment of a new structure will, according to judgment, require a disproportionate amount of resources for the organisation and bureaucracy of resources that could otherwise have been used to strengthen the existing professional environment for the benefit of employees. Our neighbouring countries have also chosen to invest in a strong trade union environment instead of more parallel and less powerful environments. All parties, except the Left, therefore believe that it is better to focus on strengthening existing structures rather than building new ones that may seem low-gathering and low-resource-efficient. This will make the most efficient use of the resources at your disposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e799	The proposal to set up a national centre of expertise for chemical damage and research is relatively easy to decide on. The entire Committee, with the exception of the representative of the Left, considers that such an establishment would require a disproportionate amount of resources and that the focus on existing structures for such work is preferable. This view is also shared by trade unions outside Stortinget. In its letter to the Committee dated 5 December, the Council of State sets out the Government's chemical health concerns. It is clear from this that significant resources are being deployed in this area, both in terms of research and in terms of supervision. STAMI's commitment to research in chemical work environments is strong, with half of the Foundation's resources going to this field. STAMI research is also ranked high internationally. I want to use the opportunity to comment on a comment from the opposition parties, where they refer to Innst. S. No 197 for 2005-2006. The same batches underlined in the view that the possibility of providing a reasonable substitute for oil workers with chemical damage should be investigated. This was also the case rapporteur inside his post. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre, then considered, as they now believe, that occupationally injured workers should have the same rights irrespective of the sector in which they work, and - let me add - regardless of the cause of the damage. I find reason to highlight this, as I note that in various contexts it is claimed that those who have been injured in the petroleum industry should be awarded special replacements, including: - it is claimed by some - because the business has given large incomes to the country. This issue is delicate. Many have suffered occupational damage in the petroleum sector, but many of us also suffer damage in land-based ordinary activities. In the Workers' Party, we are of the opinion that we cannot make special arrangements that distinguish between employees in the petroleum sector and workers in other sectors that have the same damage. Profit margins and tax contributions from the enterprise or industry cannot affect the level of compensation and compensation. We know, for example. the sick leave of women in the fields of health, social care and social care is high above the absence of the petroleum sector. This gives a hint that we will also find many people in these professions who are so injured that they have to go over to disability. For the Workers' Party, it is an important principle that these workers should have the same legal rights as all other workers, including oil workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e810	Let me first of all thank the proposers for raising an important debate. They do so by promoting this proposal, but also by the interplay that the representative of Skkelstad took up earlier this year. The Party agrees with the proposers’ description of the situation which has been linked to some serious individual cases. Here we can, among other things: point to oil workers, North Sea divers, etc. I will also be allowed to underline the importance of developing a long-term follow-up system for vulnerable working groups. The case rapporteur was also involved in his statement. I think it's important. I hope that the Government will grasp this work, both in terms of health care and assistance for continuing professional activity. Here you can use the oil workers as an example, that they have the opportunity to work on land. There are probably also other occupational groups exposed to chemical exposure. For these, we must also try to find ways of helping people to remain in their working life, but in a different work situation. I also hope that the Government will speed up the investigation into the possibility of providing reasonable compensation to oil workers who were injured as a result of chemical exposure. It's important. It also shows the media reviews of reports in the last few days. The rapporteur was also concerned with this in his statement, the coverage of the Petroleum Control in 2005 already in the case of oilworkers. To the proposal itself, which proposes to set up a national competence centre: the Progress Party does not support it. We think it is right that it is still below STAMI, as it also says in the setting. I am also afraid that if new national centres of excellence were to be set up in this area, the trade union community would be somewhat powdered, and you might get a worse overall research result than if you have it under STAMI. It was also quite well confirmed when we were visiting STAMI. They said they had a strategy from 2006 to 2015, and they said they would use 50 pst. of the resources for just research into chemical exposure. At least that gives me security to take this situation seriously. You want to do good research on this and follow it up in a good way. It will then be up to us who are in the Storting to follow the situation. Should it turn out that the 50 % strategy is not sufficient, we will be given feedback that it should be stepped up, and that we should have a greater commitment in this area, rather than starting with new national centres of excellence. I think it'll be the right way to do it in order to get a better result from what all the parties on the Storing really want. Finally, I would like to address the minority proposal referred to in the vote as proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e825	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e828	A little over two hours ago, the Minister of Health and Health gave an introduction to her, among other things. the number of cancer diagnoses has increased sharply in recent years. There are 24,000 more patients being treated for this diagnosis every year. I don't know, of course, what the reason for this is, but there's reason to believe that our chemical everyday life, our chemical childhood and our chemical workday -- that has now existed for a generation before us and for our generation, and that will exist for generations after that, gradually yields such results. It is therefore very important that the authorities take their responsibilities, both in order to ensure competence in this area, to establish rules that ensure that the chemicals used are properly used and that the chemicals and products that are harmful to health are gradually removed. I want to underline what the case rapporteur also said in his post regarding the petroleum business. Perhaps the most worrying thing now is that many companies do not meet the requirement for risk assessment of chemical use and that they have an unnecessarily large portfolio of chemicals with high health risks and do little to phase out hazardous substances. From the point of view of the SV, it is much more important to grasp how to get companies to fulfil their obligations and to phase out substances that are dangerous than to discuss the organisation of the build-up of competences in this field. I fully agree with the large majority of the committee that it cannot be our main focus now. In addition to what has been said here, where there has been evidence of the increased investment on the knowledge base in this field in setting up a national monitoring system for health and safety at work, NOA at STAMI, it is also assessed through work to improve the evidence base for the placing on the market and use of dangerous chemicals. One thing that is under assessment is, among other things, a possible extension of the obligation to declare to the Product Register in order to extend it to chemical substances and products not covered by the provisions of the Labelling Regulation. It is incredibly important that this be done for those who are going to work systematically on this, but it is also important that this be followed by authority control, because it may not be possible for the individual worker or individual consumer or resident to be an engineer in all these subjects in order to understand the content declaration, to put it that way. It's hard. That means that betting on systems that control themselves is a good start to getting to a work environment where chemical substances do not harm us on health. However, the control of authority and the follow-up to effective compliance must be such that the risk of exposure to chemicals in a health-threatening way is very high. We know that this is harmful, maybe even seagoing if you haven't been exposed to this for a long time. There may be very short exposures that make health smoke for people. That responsibility is the responsibility of the authorities, and I am convinced that the organisation that the majority now chooses to build up competence in this area is the right one.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e839	In this case, the whole Committee will concentrate on the importance of an increased focus on the problems of health damage related to chemical use. However, the left is left alone with its proposal that we best deal with the problems by establishing a new national centre of expertise with chemical damage and research as the main concern. The majority of the Committee and the majority of the organisations which submitted their comments to the hearing in the case agree that the State Institute for Safety and Health at Work, STAMI, will continue to be responsible as the national centre of competence for chemical damage. There are probably questions about whether we are spending enough resources on research and prevention of health damage as a result of chemical use, but I registered during the consultation that STAMI has great confidence in the professional environments. I also agree with the Council of State's assessments in his letter to the Committee, where he believes it would appear divisive and not resource-efficient to bet on building a new independent unit with tasks already assigned to STAMI. In its letter, the Council of State points out that the Government attaches great importance to the further development of knowledge on the health effects of chemical exposure in working life. The issue is on the agenda of the programme on health, environment and safety in the petroleum sector, and the Council of State letter shows that a research programme on causes of sick leave and exclusion from the labour market has also been established. More than we now need new professional environments in this area, we probably need to define efforts and channel resources into the conditions that prevent people's lives and health. The responsibility for safety and health at work in aviation has been raised as a topic in the Committee's consideration of this matter, because it was strongly emphasised during the hearing of the committee. These are factors that have been investigated before and where different alternatives have been assessed. When the matter remains problematic for the pilots, it still deserves attention. I would therefore also like to stress the majority's comment where we ask the Government to give priority to the work on health, environment and safety in aviation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e852	Earlier this fall, we had a discussion about how many people die every year from chemical damage. It has been estimated that approx. 500 people die every year as a result of chemicals in the workplace. This is not about whether the National Institute for Safety and Health at Work is doing a good job or not. We're 100 pst. make sure they do. It is also not about the individual occupational health centre. The problem is that this area has been allocated too few resources over a long period of time compared to the severity of exposure to chemicals by so many. That's why we want a national competence centre that only concentrates on chemicals. We need more occupational medicine, and we need the field to get more status. The high number of deaths and injuries related to the work environment and chemicals demands a similar commitment to research and protection against harmful work environment. There has been a large increase in the number of people with different symptoms of damage requiring investigation and in the number of enquiries and tasks, while resources have not been allocated to the same extent. The corresponding Nordic departments have a completely different investment. Finland has a national health and safety at work institute of about 800 employees. Research in our neighbouring countries is far ahead of our research, and this is about political will, about priorities and about resource supply. We want a similar investment in Norway. In 2005, there were 13 year’s work in research positions. The forecast for this year is five, including externally funded positions. This is too bad. Now we have to say that it was very pleasant that on the same day as there was a hearing on the proposal from the Left, the news came that in the IA Coordination Group of the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Health and Welfare there was a proposal that the medical departments should be strengthened. We think that all the steps towards strengthening the field are positive. Several hearing bodies support the establishment of a new national centre of competence for chemical damage, while the other hearing bodies will rather strengthen existing structures, because it is perceived as more rational. This argument presupposes that the area has few resources and that no additional funding is expected. It takes time to build up professional environments, and it is a prerequisite for us that, in building up a new centre of expertise, there will also be sufficient financial resources. The left therefore agrees that a build-up must be seen in a long-term perspective. In recent years, there have been many chemicals and work environment issues, dental and mercury-related issues and cases in which oil workers and workers in a number of other industries and industries have suffered health damage. Here you've spent a very long time -- up to ten years -- getting through with your affairs. Many of them have stated that they have lost confidence in public authorities, which is very regrettable. It is therefore very important to take this seriously and to reduce the waiting time for expert investigation. This can only happen if the field is allocated to more resources and personnel, and the status and recruitment of the health field is increased. Nanomaterials are increasingly used in a number of industries. Nanomaterials can pose a work environment risk at different stages of life cycle. It is important that an assessment assesses risks associated with laboratory activities and, in addition, downstream use and final management. Themes that may require particular attention from the Norwegian side include shipping and oil/gas surface treatment. It is likely that these are technologies that will be increasingly used in the future, with unknown adverse effects. Many of those who have experience in the field of chemicals are deeply concerned that health risks are not being taken sufficiently seriously. This leads to under-reporting to the NAV and the Labour Inspectorate as well as reduced legal certainty for those injured at work. In Norway, we have established a zero vision for fatal accidents in traffic. It's an important job, and it's reduced the number of injuries and killed in traffic. Around 7 billion DKK per year is spent on different road safety measures. Nevertheless, there is still a death of approx. 230 people per month. year of traffic. There's a lot of darkness related to how many people die from chemical damage at work, but we're assuming it's about 500 per. years. Maybe we need a zero vision for chemical damage as well. With this I address the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e873	The representative André N. Skelstad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e876	Prevention of health damage caused by chemical exposure in the workplace is a high priority area for health and safety authorities. Increased levels of knowledge, stricter regulation and better organisation of work have contributed to a gradual decline in occupational exposure to chemical compounds in Norwegian working life over the past decades. Nevertheless, we still have a long way to go before we reach the goal of a fully sound chemical work environment in all Norwegian workplaces. The extent of damage after exposure to chemicals in the workplace remains too high. The damage is also often of a serious nature which implies that this must be a priority area for supervision, prevention and research. Occupational diseases detected today are often caused by occupational exposure back in time, since, for example, cancer and other chemically induced diseases can have a long latency period. Consequently, there is not necessarily a correlation between today’s occupational diseases and the current level of exposure in the world of work. There is broad consensus among the supervisory authorities and research communities in the field of the working environment that there is still a high need for more knowledge in the field of chemical health hazards and that there is limited availability of measurable objective indicators in this field. The government has therefore taken a number of measures to improve the understanding and knowledge of the use of chemicals in the workplace, both historically and today. We have set up a working group of the Labour Inspectorate, the Petroleum Inspectorate and the STAMI to explore the possibilities for improving the knowledge base on chemical exposure in working life, including measures for better monitoring of working life and technical and practical improvement measures for the development of the STAMI chemical exposure data database, the so-called EXPO base. The petroleum industry, in the light of a meeting with the industry’s partners in June 2007, has presented an action plan to cover deficiencies and gaps in knowledge of past and current exposures to chemicals in that sector. The Labour Inspectorate shall also strengthen its efforts in the field of chemistry and cooperation with the parties will be central to this work in the future. I will also follow this closely in the time to come. The National Institute for Safety and Health at Work, STAMI, is the National Institute for Research in the Field of Working Environment and Health. The research and investigation efforts at STAMI are concentrated on the relationship between occupational exposure and measurable health effects as well as the mechanisms underpinning health exposure. The Foundation’s core competence can be described as multi-disciplinary integration of knowledge on the relationship between work and health. 50 pst. the resources of STAMI are allocated to the chemical field, which is thus the main field of activity of the Institute. STAMI performs research at a high international level, documented through extensive publication in international peer-reviewed journals and through independent international evaluations. The Foundation has a trade union council where the social partners are represented. Norway thus has a national centre of expertise with chemical damage and research as its main concern. In my opinion, it would seem divisive and not resource efficient in addition to investing in the construction of another independent unit with the same tasks. Let me just comment briefly on the debate that has been, that I think we can have a lot of interesting debates about the sum of the stakes in this field. As for whether we could do even more, I want to insist that this government does at least more than the previous one, but you can always discuss whether that's enough. If we now receive more resources for research, for example: related to chemical damage, in which case it must be wrong to use the resources to split the research environment we have and spend a lot of money making two institutions out of one good institution. I would like to be with the Left and the representative of Skelstad in the fight for increased access to resources, but it must be used in a reasonable way. Reasonable use is to continue to bet on STAMI.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e892	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e895	During the consultation, there were serious concerns about the oversight of the working environment in civil aviation. Employee organisations requested that the Labour Inspectorate assume responsibility for civil aviation oversight in relation to HMS issues in their entirety. In the setting, an overall opposition government requests to initiate such a transfer. The Government Parties are somewhat more cautious in their wording, but ask the Government to ‘give the necessary priority to the work on HMS in aviation’. Will the Council of State demonstrate its capacity and capacity to listen and to give full responsibility for the oversight of civil aviation to the Labour Inspectorate?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e902	I am not able to decide about this right now, but I have read the setting. I have also read what the opposition parties say there, and I can promise the representative Woie Duesund that we will at least go into the question thoroughly, and in some way I will make sure to get information about our assessments of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e907	Governments thought it was divisive to break up the trade union environment. I'm not going to go into that specifically, but in the occupational and environmental medicine departments there was an intention in 2005 to extend it to 90 jobs. In 2008, the forecast is 52. The equivalent in Denmark is 150 employees. In Lund in Sweden it is 75, in Gothenburg approx. 90 and Stockholm 71. And then all of a sudden, there's a lot of them. In Finland it is approx. 800 employees. Are the Councils satisfied with the efforts we are making in Norway based on 52 annual works, when we look over to our neighbouring country?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e914	It's tempting to say that luckily, knowledge is shared. It's very nice if you spend a lot of resources on research in Finland, Sweden and Denmark, because we get insight into that research, as knowledge is shared. The research we do, too, we pass it on to the other countries, so it is no disadvantage that there is a lot of research around the Nordics and in Europe in this field. There's always a discussion about whether we could research even more, and there's certainly unmet needs in that way. That is why we are lifting research in important areas of this field, for example: by contributing to the strengthening of occupational health departments. If there is a lack of resources for research that is the main concern of Skelstad, then I don't understand why the answer is to use resources to split a well-functioning research environment. One thing at least is certain: there will be no more research of it! That's why I think you'd like to analyse the problem, but at least the answer is not that of Skelstad and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e923	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e928	We are increasingly surrounded by chemicals. It's almost impossible to imagine a reality without the use of chemicals. We breathe in, have on the skin and work on chemicals, and much of this has potential harmful effects. Chemicals are largely linked to the patterns of production and consumption in society. The management of chemicals affects the vast majority of people, both in daily life and at work. Many demand at these times how they can make better efforts on a daily basis for the environment, and better handling of chemicals is part of this issue. Although we in the Left are technology optimists, we don't think we're getting away from chemicals, nor the use of dangerous chemicals. That's why it has a lot to say about how we handle this in our daily work, in our daily lives and at the workplace. The left will call on the Government to cooperate more closely with the EU in this area, and we want Norway to be a driver for an overview of health damage related to different products and chemicals. Past experience has shown that surveys conducted in the EU often coincide with Norwegian conditions. EU figures can therefore be of interest to us, including in the field of chemical use. Such figures show that: 21 pst. by workers, exposure to carcinogens is 22 pst. workers claim to inhale smoke, steam and dust and other hazardous chemicals for more than a quarter of their working time 16 pst. treats or is in contact with dangerous chemicals for more than one quarter of the working time These numbers say a little bit about the amount of use. Chemicals are a necessary part of a wide range of processes and occur in all parts of the world of work. Substances purchased may be completed or substances developed during work. Car workshops, mechanical engineering, the workshop industry, the reinforced hard plastics industry and the graphic industry are industries where chemical use is central. These industries comprise a total of more than 10000 enterprises and 110 000 employees. In addition, extensive use of chemicals in a number of university environments, in defence and agriculture is needed to mention some areas. Better chemicals management policy is also a common international challenge. Here Norway should have had a driving role and a more offensive policy. Instead, we feel that Norwegian investment in this area is fragmented and too poorly adapted to the challenges we face.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e957	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2178]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e972	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 45 minutes and allocated as follows: Up to 10 minutes for the rapporteur of the case, up to 5 minutes for each of the main speakers of the other parties and up to 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after submissions by the main speakers of the parties and up to three lines with replies after submissions by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e983	This setting by the Control and Constitutional Committee is about relations with Norsk Hydro, which had its timeliness - at least it was rewritten - last summer. As the President initially referred to, the Control Committee has concentrated on issues related to the dispute over the resolution of the option in Norsk Hydro ASA and the dispute over the position of the Chairperson, which led to the resignation of the Chairperson in Norsk Hydro. It is this one in the committee, which follows relatively traditional - at least at this scale - dividing lines: the government parties against an overall opposition. The committee says in agreement, and that's probably about the only thing I'm going to refer to in the kind of comments: ‘The Committee is of the opinion that a professional exercise of State ownership is strictly necessary in order not to weaken companies in which the State owns. This applies in particular to listed companies. Lack of professional ownership by the country is detrimental to companies and financial markets.» So this is saying a unanimous committee, but that's also stopping the consensus. The majority, the representatives of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party will justify their views. I want to focus on the minority's views, which go into two parts. Firstly, it refers to the dispute over the option programme, which is characterised by the minority as ‘unlucky’. The criticism is about two aspects. It concerns the fact that Norsk Hydro had made the plans for the closure of the option programme in several meetings with the Ministry aware of which management would be involved, and the extent to which this would be achieved, as the volume was linked to the current exchange rate at any time. It is the conclusion of the minority that the country’s handling of the option case was characterised by randomness and unforeseeableness and that it was largely media-driven. This can be seen from the setting, where we, among other things, quotes the State Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Rikke Lind, who, on 27 July last year, said: ‘Hydro’s board of directors has assessed and decided on its own initiative to wind up the option regime and how the options are managed. We take note of the management and decision of the Management Board.» This statement could give the impression that the Ministry did not intend to do anything more and did not have any criticism either in internal meetings or in other contexts. However, that was not the case. In the past, the Ministry had been made aware of the liquidation without expressing its views on Hydro's board of directors, nor had the Ministry during the general meeting earlier in the spring, in May, been particularly clear in its protocol submission as to the expectations of the closure of the option programme and the size of the individual options. And even more strangely, it appears when the department, while the quoted statement was given to the press, initiated investigations internally, with the order for legal reports, etc., in order to arrive at an opinion of an option agreement which was then publicly stated that it was simply taken into account. There was a lot of back and forth in the press about this, and it is the minority's opinion that the government's - and especially the Minister of Industry - handling this matter was unfortunate. It was unfortunate because it gave the impression of a lack of predictability, because it was driven by media coverage at all times, and because it was ultimately unfortunate for the company. Reactions also came internationally, and from investors who expressed some wonder, to say the least, about the Ministry of Industry's handling of the option case. Now, of course, how much should a Ministry of Food interfere with individual decisions made by the Board? To that I will answer in general: Very little. The exact option question was set up on the political agenda at that time, early in this government's period of operation. In other words, there had been a decision on restrictions in option programmes, which had broad political support in the Storting, so in a way, it was the theme taken out of the more ongoing business decisions to be handled by a government, and put on the political agenda. That is why the head of the board and the board were very active when it came to notifying the department of its plans. I suppose it was due to the fact that they also perceived that this had somehow become a sort of ‘political matter’, or rather: put on the political agenda of the Ministry of Economic Affairs as a regulator and as a Ministry of Ownership. In the correspondence that is referred to in the setting, the department also says that there have been constant contacts with Norsk Hydro in this case, so there have been many occasions to respond, but the reaction only came when the reaction in the press became extensive and strong. Part two, which is mentioned in the position both from the majority and minority – I focus here on the minority – is a very clear and clear criticism of the Ministry of Industry's handling of the removal of the chairman. In the press it was said more directly, in a language that well crosses the parliamentary boundary, that the chairman was fired. It is clear from the wording that a slightly different term had been used in the department: that the director should be ‘side by side’. It's quoted from the setting on page 10. It has the same effect, and at least it was perceived to be completely equal. It should well be done by a supervisor not to realize that when you are asked to step aside, it is dechained on grey paper, said with another expression. In the open hearing held by the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, whose report is attached to the sitting, this extraordinary procedure appears, that is to say, that the ministry does not go through the electoral committee and general assembly to have views on the composition of the board, but that in a meeting on a Saturday evening - let's say: a little outside of office time - the chairman asks for a package. This procedure was necessary, as it is called, in order not to get the impression that you had confidence. Then I just wanted to add that there were not many days before this Saturday meeting, that representatives from the Government, the Minister of Industry, had stated that they had confidence in the chairman of the board. During the hearing, there was also an interesting information, to which reference is made, namely that during the hearing the Minister of Industry said that the position of the Chairman was also based on ‘disagreement on the company’s industrial strategy’. This disagreement about the company's industrial strategy was unknown to the board of directors, as I understand it. So it had not been communicated to the company before. In other words, it has been a well-kept secret, because - as is stated in the statement - the department has had dialogue with the company also between the general meetings. So secrets were something you shouldn't be sitting on unnecessarily long, at least not one of such importance. Moreover, and it may be of greater importance for this hall, this disagreement about the company's industrial strategy has never been communicated by this government towards Stortinget, i.e. also one - by the Minister of Industry - well kept secret to Stortinget. Some government party representatives have communicated disagreements about individual decisions on various occasions, which may be called an «industrial strategy» to Hydro, but never the government to Stortinget. There is reason to point out that there is a critical attitude towards Stortinget. Under a different parliamentaryism than under a majority parliamentaryism, this would probably have led to proposals other than those in the caste. We also refer to a letter from three board members in Norsk Hydro ASA, who say that he was improperly pressured by a minority shareholder to resign, and that the management of the department is in clear contradiction to what is called ‘good management practice’. This will be quoted in the setting. This position is expressed by the minority in the Committee and points to the fact that the Ministry of Industry's handling of the matter seems passive and media-driven. It is a strong criticism from the minority that emerges in the vote. I do not conceal that I actually believe that the handling has also been harmful to the company. I await with excitement the State Council's statement of disagreement on the industrial strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1026	No one has asked for the word in reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1029	That the criticism from the minority is strong does not mean that it is necessarily just as well justified. Let me start as the case-rapporteur with a unanimous committee stressing the importance of the State that owns acting professionally and exercising its ownership in a way that contributes to the stability and predictability of the company. This is not least important in companies where the State is a partner. Clean ownership is a prerequisite for a partnership between State and private capital. Such a partnership may be essential in order to ensure stable national ownership of key industries and enterprises. In a globalised economy, this is of great importance to a small country like ours, if we are not to risk buying and flagging companies with a high potential. Therefore, the Government has also placed such emphasis on the State following generally accepted ownership principles in its ownership policy. In my view, these principles have been followed in the matter we are now dealing with. The Ministry of Economic Affairs gave its views on the proposed guidelines for the remuneration of management of Norsk Hydro at the General Assembly on 8 May last year and the State explanation of vote was included in the minutes. The views expressed were based on the requirement of the general share law to require the board of directors to draw up a statement of remuneration and other remuneration for the Executive Director and senior management, and the statement of ownership, which made it clear that the State would vote against options and option-like arrangements as a remuneration system in companies in which the State is the owner. The Hydro controller followed up these signals and proposed a remuneration system that did not include new options. As regards the winding-up of the ongoing option programme, the Ministry of Economic Affairs was briefed on the Governing Board's assessments in a meeting with Chairman Jan Reinås on 21 June. The orientation was of the overall nature, and the board had not finished its work at that time either. As Reinås said in the hearing, several options were considered. As the chairman also stressed in the hearing, he did not expect approval from the department. No such approval was granted either. This was the responsibility of the board. If the board had wanted some form of approval of the closure of the option programme, either the business meeting or the general meeting would have been the appropriate address, not the Ministry of Industry. It was at the time that the closure of the option program was published that the whole of it became known, also to the Ministry of Industry. It was the whole thing that was the basis of the reactions that came, and that, among other things. led the Ministry to decide on its own assessment of whether the Management Board had acted within its powers. The fact that the department started such an assessment was otherwise in line with the requirement of Røre's manager, Erna Solberg, to investigate what Hydro had done. The fact that large owners make such an assessment of the Board's decisions in some cases is not uncommon, as Chairman Jan Reinås confirmed in the hearing with the Committee. Other major owners, the Social Security Fund and Storebrand ASA, did the same. The winding-up of the ongoing option programme was given its final sentence when the business meeting on 6 August confirmed its confidence in the Management Board. The board had then acknowledged that it should have informed the matter at the extraordinary general meeting on 5 July. It was also demonstrated that the group manager and the other managers had offered on their own initiative a reduction in the agreed payment. The minority in the Committee criticises the Ministry for not having requested further details of the Management Board’s plan for the closure of the Option Programme. It is also pointed out that the ministry had the opportunity to do so through the relatively extensive contact with the administration and administration of Hydro in the spring of 2007. Here I believe the minority is inviting to a mess that would be critical. The Management Board first took a position on the closure of the Option Programme at its meeting on 23 July. In the hearing with the committee, Chairman Jan Reinås said that they had a thorough discussion in June, so the decision was taken one month after the briefing to the department. If the Ministry of Economic Affairs were to do what the minority believes, they would start asking for details about this beyond the spring of last year, yes, then they would not be acting in line with generally accepted ownership principles. Chairman Jan Reinås withdrew in advance of the meeting of the business meeting in August. He had been informed by the Minister of Industry that at the forthcoming General Assembly he would not receive state support to continue as Chairman of the Board of Directors, and he was also advised by the Council of State that, for the sake of the company and to find a solution to the situation that had arisen, he should step aside. I hear that the case rapporteur describes this as having ‘dechained on grey paper’, or uses other unparliamentary expressions. I believe he was given an open assessment of the situation in front of the general meeting, and has received advice. Jan Reinås chose to follow that advice, and he himself chose the time to go off. I think this was neat. I would like to remind you that this message was given in a way that such messages should be given, face to face, even though the meeting time might not be the most common.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1063	No one has asked for the word in reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1066	Let me first repeat to the previous speaker: When it comes to whether Governor Reinås withdrew or whether he was fired, I think my understanding and most others are trying to give it a sense of his own withdrawal. I also think he actually confirmed in the hearing that he felt that he was getting fired. This is a parallel to the case of a state council that also recently filed its removal application, while everyone in the press writes that she was fired. I guess that's the actual ratio. This matter actually began only when the option schemes and the payments that would come became publicly known. At first it was quiet, peaceful and calm from the Council of State, and there came reassuring statements from State Secretary Rikke Lind that they were aware that the board was going to wind up the programs, and that it was okay. So the left-hand side of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left in public began to demand action, and that something had to be done because these amounts themselves were unacceptable. That they were big, there's no doubt about it. But I would like to remind you that the reason why the option payments were large was that it was a success company. There was a company in which the stock prices had risen significantly, so it was a little strange that an owner who had received a billion prize, looked at some, in that context, relatively small amounts. So at first nothing happened until the political noise, the pressure from the left side of the Workers' Party and from the Socialist Left Party, started. What's also interesting is to go into the circumstances when these options were changed. After the political pressure, the options were changed so that they did not become so good, they became somewhat lower. It was also strongly criticised. It's interesting to note that this was a voluntary change -- those who got the options, voluntarily renounced some legal rights. I think the fact that they were pressured to do things, and that the options were nevertheless presented as too high after they had renounced a good deal of legal rights, was very unreasonable. I think that the Council of State, when he came back from vacation and started, which the owner acted very unwisely. In reality, I refer to the minority's remarks, in which there is a very strong criticism of the behaviour of the Council of State and the communication he had with the governor. It appears from the hearing that the Chairperson perceived it this way, following the information given earlier in connection with the termination of the option arrangement, and the fact that no one in the Department used the opportunity they had to ask questions, that they had actually approved what had happened. So what we're facing is a company that actually, de facto, had been accepted and approved some decisions that were taken unanimously by the members of the board of trustees, but when the public gets to know about it, and you start to get criticism from inside your own party, it's that the council panics a lot of interference in the company, like getting hold of lawyers' opinions, that's making a fast pace. BA-HR, which was to look at the process procedures in Hydro, made a critical remark about this, so Chairman Reinås confirmed in the hearing that there was no contact between the company BA-HR and Hydro. I asked the question, ‘How could BA-HR feel anything about the procedure procedures in Hydro?’ ‘No, I don’t understand that a law firm can produce anything like that,’ Reinås answers. So you order some of the conclusions of your legal inquiries, which are then used to give you a sense of how well you have done a job. I think there is every reason to address the criticism that is thoroughly explained in the vote, against the Council of State in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1079	No one has asked for the word in reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1082	This case is about large option payments that the owners had not approved, to 35 top managers in a company where the state is the largest shareholder. The case also reveals lines of distinction between the left and the right of Norwegian policies. The civil parties turn the case upside down when they target the action of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. It was necessary to react to the unculture as option gains of 210 million. kr is an expression of. The state as a large owner showed professional ownership by putting his foot down. The payments of the Hydro Council were not in accordance with decisions of our National Assembly and guidelines of the Government relating to ownership and options. There were remnants of a greed culture that we don't want. The proposed option win to Hydro Director Reiten alone, 28 million. kr, corresponds to the salary of nearly 100 assistant nurses. That's what this case is about -- and not about Reinås being allegedly pressured in an improper way by a minority shareholder to resign as the chairman, as the bourgeois write in the election. It is about the fact that the board manager no longer had the necessary trust of the largest owner. To own is to want. For SV, it has been important to contribute to government to promote a more active state ownership in order to develop key industry and infrastructure and to ensure national control of vital natural resources. Owning is also choosing. In ownership policy, we put long-term value creation and industrial development ahead of short-term profits - Community and environmental considerations ahead of private self-interest, among other things. At the same time, the State shall govern professionally according to generally accepted ownership principles. It has also happened in this case. The government took in the announcement of ownership an affordable and very clear settlement with culture, some would call it a culture of greed, for which golden parachutes and options are an expression. «This government sees the need for more moderation and accuracy in the management of companies. On this basis, the State will vote against the conclusion of new agreements involving the option arrangements of the companies covered by this notification. [[...]] However, any incentive arrangements must be designed in such a way as to ensure moderation in the development of the remuneration conditions of managers. Furthermore, there must be a ceiling on the value of the programme which appears to be reasonable.’;» These are views that the State has of course made known, both in St.meld. No 13 for 2006-2007 and through new guidelines sent in January 2007 to all companies in which the country is a shareholder. In the autumn of 2006, Stortinget also adopted amendments to the Public Share Act. The amendment strengthened the rights and obligations of the general meeting to deal with the company's determination of directors' salaries. The payments made by the Hydro-Council on 23 July 2007 then broke to the degrees of the adopted ownership policy. These were red-green guidelines that got blue support on the way. But it didn't go long before the blue sympathy again was with the most privileged. No one should disagree that it was necessary to obtain legal assessments of the payments made by the Hydro-Government - at least right. The right-hand manager, Erna Solberg, called for a legal assessment of the case as the media know. This also meant other owners, such as Storbrand and the People's Security Fund. The lawyers in Selmer and BA-HR agree that the board should have informed the owners of the actual content of the scheme. This did not do the rule. In addition, BA-HR considers that the Board of Directors went beyond its powers and that a more favourable regime was put in place in practice than that agreed. This point is getting tensed for some reason in the opposition in the setting. There's reason to wonder how citizens can think of that 210 million. kr was a reasonable termination fee to the 35 managers. SV believes that there are good, factual reasons to believe that the cash settlement of the 35 directors resulted in an improvement in already golden avalanches, yes gold-edged because of oil price-driven share prices - this because the payments did not take into account the advantage for the option holders that the requirement for three years' employment and the obligation to reinvest in Hydro shares were lifted, and that the cap on payments, relating to one year's salary, was waived. The requirement to lower the foot is otherwise also highlighted in the ownership message. Not only that, the 35 managers also brought a fine profit from the price development of the Hydro share that was created in the period between the publication of the Hydro-Statoil merger and the date of redemption. If the options e.g. had been redeemed on 1 December 2006, they would be one third of the value at the date of redemption, on 23 July 2007, and would have dropped to a total of two thirds six months after the date of redemption. The 210 million. In other words, kr was partly a form of lottery winnings generated by the merger decision. We were actually facing payments that were qualitatively and to an extent different from the original option agreements. The Council of State is therefore quite right when he points out that the Hydro-Government should have managed to reduce the payments. In that case, the Board would have reaped recognition in the Norwegian community for it. But because the board did not do this job, it was correct for the council, on behalf of the main shareholder, the Norwegian people, to exercise active ownership. It also produced results by actually reducing payments. In this case, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade and the Council of State have, in the SV's opinion, done a very necessary cleaning job, which is good for Hydro, good for the Hydro employees and good for the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1109	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1113	The vaggan Malvik said at the beginning of his post that these options were not approved by the owner. I asked the following questions during the hearing to director Reinås: ‘The purpose of the meeting on 21 June was to prepare the Ministry for the fact that, when the resolution programme for the options became publicly known, there could be noise. Did you see, after you had given your briefing and had not received a question, that now the department was aware that there could be noise - and was prepared for it?" The answer from Reinås was: "Yes, I realized that. I did.’ So then the department that already owns was informed about the consequences of the liquidation program, which was a follow-up to the government's very reasonable general view of this type of option. But how can the representative then claim that the owner had not approved it, because the board leader had put it forward and there were no objections, and you were aware that there would be noise?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1128	As Mr Hagen is aware, I am an alternate and was not present at the hearing. But what he expresses is Reinås’ subjective perception of what was going on in that meeting with the ministry. This is not to say that the department has agreed to the closure plan for the programme. In my opinion, it is obvious that you can - and should - expect that you have a competent department that is able to do a good job, but to expect that the department is psychic in view of the fact that you have to complete a programme by improving the option agreements, I think it is a little over and above what you can expect from the briefing given to the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1135	However, although not present during the hearing, the whole of the Stortinget has been presented with the consultation in the submission by means of a stenographic record. The representative Vaggen Malvik's posts were about something that the case does not concern, namely views on options in general. This is not the job of the control committee, and we have not examined it, but we have gone to the department's handling of the matter. I understood from the post that the representative of the government party believed that the proceedings were highly critical, because she insinuated - I must almost use that expression - that the timing of the resolution of the options was chosen to give the senior employees the greatest possible benefit. How, then, can the Vaggen Malvik defend the fact that the works council, where the State was represented, on 6 August decided that the management board's proceedings on the option matter were sound?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1142	Looking at the development of share prices in Hydro, it is obvious that the timing of the redemption of the option agreement has a bearing on the amount of the 35 leading people in Hydro, so it's a matter of fact that it has consistency with the amount.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1147	That's not what I asked. I asked if it is possible for the representative to have two views at the same time, namely, as a representative of the government party to defend that the business meeting in which the state is represented decides that the proceedings are sound, and that the representative in his intervention now insinuates that the proceedings have not been properly conducted, i.e. that a time has been chosen which deliberately gave the senior staff a greater option gain.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1152	I would like to repeat my answer to the representative Foss: it is a real case that the timing of the redemption of the option agreements has an impact on the amount. The time you choose has a consequence on the amount of money. It's one of the things that the BA-HR report has actually shown, and that's documented.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1157	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1160	The background to the matter we are now dealing with has been thoroughly informed by the case rapporteur, and insofar as also supplemented by several speakers, not least the representative Carl I. Hagen. I would therefore like to briefly explain the views of the Christian People's Party in the matter. The Christian People's Party sees state ownership as an instrument to ensure that social interests are not overcome by short-term business interests. For us, it is important that ownership is exercised in an active and professional manner, so that stability and predictability are ensured for individual activities. The best international standards and ownership management principles must be used to exercise that ownership. In the view of the Christian People's Party, the handling of this matter has not been sufficiently professional, as others have also stressed, and in accordance with good ownership. The Norwegian Hydro option programme started under the Stoltenberg government in 2001. In accordance with the ownership principles now granted by the Government, the Hydro Steering Board decided to wind up the option programme. At the general meeting in May 2007, it was briefed that the option programme would be terminated, but not on the details and content of the winding-up. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade had a lot of contact with Hydro in the spring of 2007. It would be entirely possible for the Ministry to address the option matter both at the ordinary general meeting in May and at the extraordinary general meeting on 5 July if they wanted to influence the content of the agreements. Looking back and based on the reactions that came from the department, it is actually quite amazing that this was not done. The reactions from the department only came after this became a major issue in the media. The first reaction of the Secretary of State of the Department, as also mentioned by the Advocate General, came after the conclusion of the winding-up agreement itself, and was even to take note of the management and decision of the Board of Directors. One is left with the impression that the ownership exercise of the State appears passive and media-driven in a way that does not strengthen confidence in the department as its owner. At the hearing in the Committee, it appeared that there was a difference of opinion between the Council of State and the former Chairperson on the background to the resignation of the Chairperson. In the hearing, the Council of State also pointed out that disagreement on the company's industrial strategy was a contributing factor in the department's failure to support the re-election of Reinås. It is amazing that such disagreements have not been communicated in the past through formal channels. It is otherwise interesting to note the letter of some board members who clearly state that they consider that the ministry's handling of this matter has been contrary to good management practice. It is important for business that the state behaves neatly in the stock market and that it is not made up of the impression that business is subject to political governance. The Christian People's Party expects the Ministry for the future to exercise its ownership in a more professional manner and in accordance with generally accepted ownership principles.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1181	No one has asked for the word in reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1184	In autumn 2006, the paper adopted amendments to the General Shares Act which oblige the Board of Directors to draw up a statement of remuneration and other remuneration for the Executive Director and senior management. The government followed this up by developing new guidelines on State ownership and attitude towards senior remuneration in December 2006. They made it clear that options and other option-like arrangements should not be used in companies in which the State holds a holding. The guidelines were sent to all companies in which the State holds a holding, and it was made clear that the state at the general meetings in spring 2007 would vote against the issue of new options. In my opinion, this was followed up by the Norwegian Hydro Board through the closure of the option programme. The government pursues an active ownership policy in line with the ownership message and its treatment by the Storting. As well as corporate law, as well as generally accepted ownership-management principles, there is room for this. A main reason why the State is a major owner is the importance of many state-owned companies in Norway, both industrially and in the management of important national resources by many companies. The country must therefore have a long-term perspective on its ownership and as a shareholder contributes to the long-term growth and industrial development of companies. Only if the companies are competitive over time can they continue and further develop their role in the Norwegian economy and society. This requires an active ownership policy where, as any other major owner, the State formulates and specifies the government's expectations of having high ambitions for the long-term economic and industrial development of companies. Companies that must be competitive over time must also take into account considerations that go beyond short-term profit maximisation. In particular, companies must invest adequately in research and development as well as in the development of labour skills. It will be difficult over time for a company to implement conversions at the necessary pace and scale if the company does not handle such processes properly. Contributions to mitigate any impact on local communities are part of this. Similarly, the company must produce a diversity of management at all levels, otherwise the ability to understand the environment around the companies and social development will deteriorate. High ethical standards in all respects will be necessary to maintain the values and legitimacy of the company. The management of the company must have systems of remuneration and compensation that are competitive and transparent, so that they do not impair the general authority of management or threaten to impair the values of shareholders. An active ownership policy therefore implies that the state formulates clear expectations in these areas as well, and that this is communicated openly in the companies. This provides a significant additional dimension in addition to the general business-economy requirements for returns and dividends. The country’s active ownership must take place within the framework of Norwegian company law and general principles of good ownership. It implies that the Boards are responsible for assessing the expectations that shareholders and others may have of the business and for implementing the business measures that the Boards consider to be appropriate. Activists, on their part, must assess the performance of the Boards. An active ownership policy must therefore also imply that the State, as any other major owner, undergoes and assesses the work of the boards in a good and systematic manner, and not least contributes to the formation of directors to ensure the long-term value creation and industrial development of the country's objective of ownership. It is basically this which is the fundamental political issue in this matter, in my opinion. The opposition questions whether the State has acted within the framework of the principles of sound ownership in its handling of this matter. In my opinion, the Ministry's ownership of this matter is generally well within the framework of good ownership. It was natural for the chairman to know what was the largest owner's position in the matter that had arisen, both in relation to the liquidation of the option programmes and in relation to the continuation of his role as chairman.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1199	No one has asked for the word in reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1203	The Committee's position in this matter shows that there is a cross-political consensus that it is important that the State which owns it should act professionally and exercise its ownership in a manner appropriate to ensure the stability and predictability of each company. State ownership must be exercised within the framework of generally accepted ownership principles. It was a basic starting point for the government's ownership policy as unimagined in St.meld. No 13 for 2006-2007, and I am pleased to note that it is also underlined by an overall Monitoring and Constitutional Committee. The starting point for this case was that the State has exercised professional and predictable ownership. In contrast to the previous bourgeois governments, this government has implemented concrete measures to stop the trend towards increasingly unfair business options that many people thought were relevant, but nobody did anything about. In order to ensure predictability and transparency, the State developed and published in December 2006 – in good time before the 2007 general meetings – detailed guidelines on how the State would behave when the 2007 general meetings were to address these issues. In addition, the state had contact with most of the companies in which it owns, prior to the general meetings - also with Norsk Hydro. And at all general meetings and business meetings, the government was consistent with these guidelines. In some cases, the State could vote yes without further delay, in some companies, the State had to vote no, and in some companies, the State required protocol entries. This has worked! We can now see that in the companies in which the State owns, there are no longer new option arrangements. When it became clear that the Norwegian Hydro board had decided to wind up the company's option arrangement in such a way that the value of the options was about three times as high as they had been half a year before, and there had been significant changes in the terms of the arrangements, it was obvious that the State as the liable major shareholder had to enter into this. The State had requested clarification from the board through protocol input to the general meeting. Now it turned out that it wasn't just technical calculations of the value of the options, as we were informed about June 21. In addition, changes were made to the terms and conditions of employment, the obligation to purchase shares and take-offs in relation to annual wages and salaries without any information from us or other owners. Such changes in the terms and conditions could mean that the Management Board was not empowered to take the decisions that had been taken in relation to the general meeting. As some other major shareholders, therefore, the State had to review the legal basis for the decision. Such a review was necessary in order to determine whether and, where appropriate, how it could be appropriate to react. For example, shareholders over a certain size may require an extraordinary general meeting. Unlike most other shareholders, the State must comply with the Public Procurement Act. This clearly meant that the legal considerations developed by the State were to be made public. The Committee has discussed the contact between myself and Chairman Jan Reinås prior to his resignation. I stand by the fact that in such contact it was real and correct that the director of the board was told - before others - that he would not receive state support when the election committee would later discuss the composition of the board of the new Norwegian Hydro after the merger of the petroleum business with Statoil. This is not a violation of any principles of ownership or the like -- that's just what I want to call common folk. I also stated in these conversations that, in my view, it would be best to serve the company if the director of the board already withdrew in connection with the further handling of this matter. The Chairperson could choose to continue, and it would be up to the Electoral Committee and later the Business Assembly to decide what would happen. I noticed that he chose to resign. The reality of this matter is that the Norwegian Hydro Board first failed to inform the ordinary general meeting of the liquidation of the option arrangements. Even at the extraordinary general meeting on 5 July - i.e. after the state at the ordinary general meeting had requested information, and only two or three weeks before the board made its final decision - the board of directors of the company chose not to inform its owners. When, in addition, subsequent amendments to the terms and conditions were adopted, which at best ask questions as to whether the Board of Directors had the necessary powers, the minority’s announcement, following formal rules of procedure, must go to the company – not to the shareholders who actively seek to find out the situation created by the company. Neither on its own behalf as a major shareholder, nor as part of a larger shareholder community, can the State accept that companies do not try to inform and apply to the general meeting on matters where the legislator has expressly given legal orders and intentions - about it. We will also follow up on this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1222	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1225	Does the State Council consider that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade’s ownership of the matter is an example of follow-up for other minority shareholders in the business community? And further, can the Council of State say something about what, in his view, the management of Hydro should have done differently in the liquidation of the options programmes in order to maintain the confidence of the Ministry of Industry and Trade? And one last question: does the Council of State think that there is something in the matter that can provide a basis for self-criticism?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1232	After having had the opportunity to follow the case thoroughly and also to go through it thoroughly several times, including. in advance of the hearing, I would say that in the case of good public ownership, we have followed point by point what we have said in the ownership message. Much of the criticism from the opposition, which has been partly personal in nature and quite gross, is based on a claim that the ministry was fully oriented on 21 June. So we weren't, and it was also confirmed in the hearing of Reinås. The critical points we were not informed about at that time. Paragraph 2, that we should not have said anything on 21 June, is also wrong. It was clearly stated by the Ministry that the case had to be settled as reasonably as possible, in the light of the notification of ownership and the state's position on options. On this basis, much of the criticism that is being promoted here crumbles away, because it rests on some actual errors. Therefore, I would say that we have gone through the handling and found out that we would have done it the same way again.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1237	I find that the Council of State is putting up for full confrontation with the State in the matter of ownership policy. He initially referred to the broad consensus on the staging message. That's right. But on the first occasion he gets to exercise a ownership policy -- that's on the exercise you're being judged, not on the principles -- he's in full confrontation with the Biggest. Just for the details of the meeting between Hydro and the department: I actually have the confidence in the ministry's office that you have the intelligence to ask some questions, even if you don't get everything on the table. I have a question for the Council of State: why does the Council not comment on its own opinion from the hearing on the disagreement on ownership policy? I underlined in my speech that it is an inconsistency sin of a council of states not to make the Stortinget aware of such a disagreement, until it happens, if necessary, in a hearing after the resignation of the board of directors. Why has the Stortinget or the company's bodies not previously communicated such an disagreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1246	In the letter to the Stortinget - not first in the hearing - I made it clear that I had told Reinås that in any case we were not going to support him as a candidate in the autumn's elections. On questions from Ola T. Borrowing in the hearing, I gave a general explanation of the criteria we use when assessing directors and board members before an election. Of course, we have to do that job as a representative of the owner. Part of it is the industrial one. Then I mentioned communication in addition, referring to poor communication up against the General Assembly on 8 May. But the personal conversation between me and Reinås and more details from there I have not mentioned, and I will not. It must be that when it is time to say to a person or to other representatives in a board that at the next election he will not have our trust, the explanation of it will not be outsourced in the media.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1253	I'd like to quote from the setting, page 10: ‘These members’ – i.e. the Advance Party, the Right and the Christian People’s Party – ‘ refer to letters from the members of the Board of Directors Olving, Mogren and Anker Nielsen to the Election Committee of Norsk Hydro ASA of 14 August 2007. These members of the board are of the opinion that the Chairman of the Board of Directors Reinås was improperly pressured by a minority shareholder to resign, and that the ministry's handling of the whole matter has been - quote from the letter - «in clear contradiction with Good Corp. [[...]] Governance and overall the way in which listed companies with an international shareholder are expected to deal with management and employee relationships. We are also of the opinion that these conditions are detrimental to the company's ability to recruit senior staff internationally. Against this background, we are in complete disagreement with the way in which the State, as a minority shareholder, has acted in relation to the decisions of the board, and with the changes the government has pushed through beyond the company's governing bodies, and without regard to good practice for ownership management.» Does the Council of State think that there are a lot more than just the minority in the United Kingdom criticising the exercise of the Government's ownership policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1265	To the question of whether there are many who criticise: it is clear that in this case there are many who have been criticized. Many have also been criticised on the basis of point 1 that the Ministry did not comment on the orientation on 21 June. But we did. Point 2: The criticism points - where BA-HR concluded that the board did not have the competence to make decisions, and Selmer pointed out that the general assembly should have been briefed - were therefore not known. They were also not known in the press release on 25 July. They first became known afterwards. It was the actual changes, which, in our opinion, improved the options, and the obvious fact that the general meeting should at least have been briefed, which led to us addressing the questions we were doing. It is important to point out that we used the company's organs. We used the General Assembly on 8 May. We contacted the company meeting when they had their meeting on 6 August. We have been dealing with the company's bodies and not with the debate that has taken place in the media. I think that's the right way to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1274	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1279	This case concerns the administration by the Minister of Industry of the so-called option case in Norsk Hydro, a case which was based on the decision of the Hydro Board of Directors that resulted in 35 leaders receiving a total payment of 210 million. kr. I'm glad we have a Minister of Industry who reacted as this matter was known last summer. It was not only the Minister of Industry who reacted to this, but also other major shareholders and large parts of the Norwegian people. In retrospect, the group management also recognised that the amounts were too large, and they claimed much of the amount. It says that they eventually understood the seriousness of the matter. The board has also admitted that the General Assembly should have been briefed on the plans. The fact that Reinås took the consequences of this and went off as a leader was, in my view, a wise decision. We have a government that has actually made an effort to bring options to life, and that has put in place a law that makes us avoid such matters in the future. The previous government did nothing to prevent untimely option agreements. People should notice that. This government, with the Minister of Industry at the head, has developed new guidelines for the renting of companies where the State is the owner or co-owner. They say that the state should consistently vote against new option schemes, because this is about taxpayers’ money. I didn't think it was right that top leaders who are initially well paid, allow hundreds of millions to themselves in the way we were witnessed in this matter. 210 million. kr is extremely much money. I think the vast majority will agree that there are unreasonably high arguments that cannot be defended. As politicians, we are chosen to manage our people's money. I've recorded that the Progress Party, which calls itself the party most, thought it was very good. Siv Jensen went as far as comparing Norway with a Communist state, based on the government's handling of this matter. I'm wondering if she's in line with her selections.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1296	I take the floor in this case because it is directly relevant to the consideration of St.meld by the nutrition committee. No 13, ownership message, which took place in the spring of 2007. Indeed, the reaction to the ownership announcement was initially positive because many felt that central issues related to the exercise of ownership in the listed companies were clarified, after many media outsourcings and individual jobs, which showed a very unfortunate exercise of ownership policy and created a picture of ownership policy as an unyielding, media-driven and unpredictable arena. On the other hand, the Ownership Communication stated that the Government should comply with the principles that have been in force for many years under changing governments. The control committee refers to Section 7.2.1 of the ownership notification with the very promising title ‘The government will exercise a professional ownership’, the section on ‘Responsibility and composition of the board’ and the section on ‘Ownership management as an instrument’. Here, then, the Government states in its own document that you should adhere to the Share Act and the guidelines for ownership management in Norwegian business. In the owner management section, the following even apply: ‘If the Governing Board does not follow up on what the State communicates in the ownership dialogue, the State as a shareholder must consider addressing this matter at the general meeting.’ So here, there's no room for informal dismissals, or what you're going to call it, in the Council's office on a Saturday afternoon. And here's the Minister of Industry so totally wrong about living up to the government's own ownership policy. At the first crossroads after the Storting has dealt with the ownership message, the Council of State is taking the step of dismissing the director directly to get away from media pressure in a difficult matter in the middle of an election campaign. This is quite devastating for the trust in the way the largest owner of Oslo Børs acts in important companies in Norway. Unfortunately, this case is not a specific case. One should not go back any further than 2006, when the Prime Minister in the Questionnaire returned to the Chairmanship of Statoil - an appointment that the Government had warmly supported just a few days earlier. Here again, there was pressure in the media that decided the government's exercise of ownership policy. It is also relevant to mention the Aker Holding case, which took place approximately simultaneously with the Reinås case, where the Government bought shares for NOK 5 billion with ten years of commitment and very complicated shareholder agreements without collecting financial advice from anyone. Here again, it is impossible to know what are the principles behind the government's ownership policy. I also want to remember the story. The Option Agreements in Hydro were introduced under the Stoltenberg I Government. The option agreements in force in Telenor were marketed by the Stoltenberg I Government in connection with the listing of Telenor. I just want to end by saying that the Minister of Industry's unprofessional management of ownership confirms Right-wing counter-representation towards a more extensive state ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1321	When the government parties in this setting first believe that the country's ownership signals should be given in a formal chain of governance, there is a puzzle as to how they can accept the way in which the State Council has behaved in this case. The Council of State itself confirms in a letter to the Economic and Social Committee on 9 February 2007 that it will communicate its expectations to the company in line with other major owners. That possibility was provided by the Council of State on 21 June, when the department was briefed on the closure of the option programme. But he behaved quietly. He did not communicate to the company what he later stated as one of the most important things in the red-green ownership management, namely the liquidation of the option programmes, which, moreover, a total accumulation had previously joined. The passivity led to media redundancies and it again led to a hectic political activity. It was politics and election campaigns the state councils untrained last summer, not ownership according to the principles he himself says he should deal with. The media pressure and the pressure from the left in their own batches grew. The power of action had to be demonstrated, which eventually went completely across the principles of ownership management. The State Secretary's speedy attempt to follow such governance chains as late as July 27 was replaced by informal policy-making in order to voice criticism from its own ranks. The trade force consisted in getting a look from the Lawyer's firm Selmer. When you were not satisfied with it, you got a second opinion from another law firm - later referred to as quality assurance. It is incomprehensible that this may be in line with the government's governance principles, and that it may be tidy, as Svein Roald Hansen states in an article earlier here today. He says that it would have been unbearable to go into the option program on 21 June, while he thinks it was neat to kick the director after what is now called an open assessment - so give strong signals that he is not wanted - long before the company had started any process. And this is really troubling when, at a much later stage, in fact, only during the hearing, the Council of State shows that there was an industrial strategic disagreement that was some of the reasons for this so-called open assessment, which is now called destiny. It was therefore communicated outside of all owner-management legislation and should of course have been communicated through the company channels to other shareholders and to the outside world long before this. This was all about one of Norway’s flagships in the international context of nutrition, and it is not possible to use methods that are more similar to those that may be found in the sausage shed on the corner. There have been many attempts from the red-greens to define and clarify what is active industrial policy in ownership. So far, there have been reports of witch-hunts of selected individuals. I think the action of the Council of State in this matter is an embarrassingly low level of active industrial policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1334	The Government has received full support from the Storting to the proposals they have made on changes to the option programmes in state enterprises or in enterprises where the State is a major owner. Similarly, the government has been given good backing for principles of good ownership, but at the first meeting with a practice of good ownership - and no chance meeting either, but with one of the largest companies in the state - one gets criticism from an overall opposition. Then you might think that, in order to maintain the broad consensus, the Council of State had taken self-criticism at one point or two, but then it doesn't happen. Nor does a process between the owner and the company that has led to public dirty laundry – i.e. in the media – in the case of the option program take on self-criticism, and I ask again: does the Council of State subsequently see that communication with the company about the option program and its disclosure could have been done in a more appropriate way for the company? Question 2: When the Council of State says that it was generally good people to state that the chairman should resign, at a Saturday meeting and not through the election committee before the general meeting, is my question: does it mean that Saturday meetings are now being introduced as part of the formal decision-making chain between the Ministry of Economic Affairs and large state companies? After all, it would have been possible to wait until the election committee started its work. In my last question to the Council of State, I asked why a hearing used ‘disagreement’ on industrial strategy. I did not ask for the details in a private conversation, so it could seem from the Council's response - I have no interest in it at all. I'm asking what's in the industrial strategy there's a disagreement between Norsk Hydro ASA and the largest owner, the Government of the Ministry of Industry. That's my question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1343	I note that in this debate too, the Right-wing Speakers have produced the Right-wing ownership policy about the fact that the best ownership policy is to have no policy at all, in any case, with the view firmly attached to the stock exchange price and the bottom line of the companies in which the State has its ownership. I assume that if these parties were again to have influence in Norwegian policy, there would be government ownership policy in the future. The representative Foss has asked for an explanation that the Council of State has communicated to Governor Reinås that his policy for the company may not have been entirely in line with the wishes and expectations of the new government for Hydro. Then my question is, Where has Foss been during the treatment of the ownership message? In the ownership announcement, the state that owns very clear claims is clearly expecting what development you want in Hydro as a company. And if Foss thinks that director Reinås' exercise of ownership in Hydro is in line with the expectations laid down by the state in the announcement of ownership, yes, I would say that then there must be something wrong with the ability to judge. It might be interesting to look at what happened in Hydro after the termination of the option arrangements, and after a new board of directors has been created in the company. In this regard, I think that there is reason to quote the group leader, Eivind Reiten, who in today's business life says that «Hydro is done selling businesses», and that an important challenge is now to get the processing of aluminium by the group to go with a greater profit.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1352	Just a few brief comments: The representative Svein Fleet repeated as far as the other speaker from the Right is trying to present this as - that it was the so-called left side of the Workers' Party and SV that were to be satisfied with the reaction. I do not know exactly where the Right Representative places his own leader, Erna Solberg, who thus demanded an examination of what the Hydro government had done, or the People's Security Fund and Storebrand, who also started an assessment of whether the board had acted within their powers. It would be surprising if they belonged in SV or on the left side of the Workers' Party. What I said in my post was related to what is stated in the minority remark that one should have examined more about the information received at the meeting on 21 June, and that one should have taken it up at the general meeting on 5 July. It is also pointed out that during the spring of 2007, there was a great deal of contact with the administration and government of Hydro in connection with the merger process with Statoil. I believe that it would be the wrong exercise of ownership to run in front of the board in the spring of 2007 in connection with the termination of the option. It's the board's responsibility. The Management Board first came to the Department and briefed on 21 June. Chairman Jan Reinås says that at the time he did not see it as his role to get a dialogue and not to ask for any approval. One was there to inform and to inform about the whole and the size, which was great. That was the point. The board did not raise the matter at the general meeting on 5 July. It is possible that it could have been requested there, but the company meeting therefore gave the small index finger to the board that they should have taken it up when they approved the matter in August. Then you can agree or disagree on how proactive a big owner should be in such a question. But in fact, I think there would be strong criticism here in the Chamber today and, at my discretion, more weight behind the criticism if the Council of State or the Department of the function that the owner had run in front of the board and tried to influence the board's own assessment. Then it becomes a mix of roles, and that's my point when I think you actually add up to a critique on the wrong basis. If the Council had followed that criticism, it would have been the basis for criticism of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1363	I was challenged once again by the representative Foss that I should take self-criticism, but I am not going to take self-criticism that the representative Foss and others have misrepresented what the department was informed about, when the department was informed, etc. What I said in the hearing, which is an attachment to the setting, and which I would like to repeat, was that insofar as we were going to do something else, we might have been more impatient and more pointed in our behaviour on 8 May at the general meeting. But we're working with company and government. We were in dialogue with the company and the board and found some kind of treatment of future pay systems that we wanted, as shown by the letter from me and by the protocols. In that case, we had to be tougher and more square and more confrontational with the board. I note that there is no criticism from the Right that the board did not explain that they might terminate the option regime in connection with the merger plans. Nor is there any criticism of Hydro that they were not briefing at the general meeting on 8 May, nor that they were not briefing at the general meeting on 5 July, nor that the information given to one owner - it is not satisfactory, it should be given to all owners - was incomplete. There is also no negative comment to register from the right-hand side. Then it is that the meeting that the representative Foss referred to as the ‘saturday meeting’ took place on a Friday. There was obviously no news for Reinås during the hearing that there was a reason why we would not support him as a candidate at the autumn elections. It confirmed Reinås in the hearing - it is stated on page 16 in the minutes of the hearing that he has received a justification for it. So that was no news. Then the representative fleet says that when we were not satisfied with the Selmer report, we ordered a new report from BA-HR. It's completely wrong. The two reports from serious law firms were produced in full parallel. It wasn't like BA-HR made a report after Selmer finished, they worked in parallel. Furthermore, party leader Erna Solberg in Right Saturday 28 said we should start an investigation, and now we are criticized for making such a report. Many have predicted investment volatility. Some have predicted that it will be difficult to get directors to Hydro. Some have predicted that foreign investors would cloud Hydro. Everything has proved to be wrong. There are no limits to which loose claims can be used in attacking persons. Finally, I would like to say that I follow good advice and follow up on practical ownership management. But when the representative Foss refers twice in his main post to the state representatives at the company meeting, I would say that he should perhaps know that the state does not have representatives in the company meeting. And when I'm advised that we should have started legal investigations of decisions in Hydro before Hydro had taken the decision, I can promise the Storting that the form of immoderate ownership that I was recommended by Per-Christian Foss, I will never operate with.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1378	I think the council is on wild roads if he perceives a criticism of his office as personal criticism. It's a criticism of the state council as a politician and his actions. That an overall opposition does not criticize the government of Norsk Hydro ASA, but criticises the Council of State, is a deliberate choice. We do not find any grounds for criticising the board of directors or the conduct of the board of directors. Then the representative of Gullvåg says that we must then understand that the state's ownership policy is not in line with what Reinås stands for. It's a post he should have held against his own state council. We have now three times tried to get the Council of State to explain what lies in the disagreement about the industrial strategy he expressed in the hearing, without getting any answer. So if that ownership policy has any content, at least it is not possible to get it out in this assembly and on this occasion. Otherwise, I fully share the point of view that Hydro's leader expresses, that now it's about bringing up the value creation also in the further processing of aluminium. To put it like that, there's no new point of view. That you're only concerned with the "bottom line" of Hydro - well, well. I think I can reveal to the representative Gullvåg the little secret, maybe, that I also think some government members are currently occupied with the bottom line of Hydro. For it is approaching a budgetary conference, and then some are interested in how dividends are going on in the companies of the state, and the share price is an expression of expectations about future value, which may have a significant impact on the budget to be provided for 2009. So looking at the bottom line is not an entirely immaterial part of a ownership policy. Otherwise, I don't think I had any criticism to address the department if the department had at an earlier stage found reason to obtain reports on various ways to wind up the option program. In order for the option programme to be terminated, it was already clear when the Government dealt with the merger agreement. Some people would simply not have the opportunity to continue, and the liquidation of options would be a very likely possibility. I don't want to use an expression like scrutiny, but previous collection of reports had absolutely been an advantage. At least then State Secretary Rikke Lind could have expressed a more sensible wording than just taking the treatment ‘intelligence’. Otherwise, I just have to say that the state is not represented in the business meeting, is just formal nonsense. Of course, there are representatives of the owners also in the company meeting. Although no government is specifically designated, the state is part of the electoral committee and as such also has influence. If not, it would be relatively alarming if the State said that the business meeting is not representative of the largest owner at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1393	The President will point out that the word'sludder' is not a parliamentary term and is not valid in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1396	Just a few brief comments: First to the representative Svein Roald Hansen, who will come back to this with the impatience to enter the option programme in the discussion in the department on 21 June. Yeah, like that, I don't disagree with that. But he doesn't say anything about whether it was tidy or untidy, or that. He does, he says it's tidy in a similar kind of conversation - even more special, one Friday evening, as we've been told - to signal, apart from all the guiding principles, that you no longer trust the director. At the top of it all, later on, there is this so-called industrial policy disagreement, which cannot be properly explained. So a brief comment to the representative Gullvåg, who never neglects any opportunity to say from this pulpit that unlike the red-greens, Right has no business policy or ownership policy. If this which we have dealt with today, and the behaviour of the Council of State, is to be the example of ownership and industrial policy, I welcome. Let me also add that it is amazing to hear the representative Gullvåg finally draw out the example of Reiten and his prioritisation of the bottom line in Norsk Hydro. I perceive that Gullvåg is strongly behind it. So we've heard speakers from especially SV and others in the government parties today talking about profit almost like a shell word. I can see that there are very divided opinions about what you really think about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1405	Again, the question of our assessment of Reinås and in so far as other board members in Hydro's candidacy to get our support for re-election in October: I have therefore said in the letter that I sent to Stortinget, that there was a two-part reason, that we were not going to support the re-election of Reinås in October, and that I thought Hydro was best served by him because of the handling of the option case. When the representative Foss says that in that context I said ‘industrial’ as a news, I refer again to what I actually said, it is stated in the minutes. On questions from Ola T. Lånke, I expressed a general assessment of which things are underlying, and we assess in a very ordinary way, every two years broadly, whether or not the directors will receive our support for re-election. It's industrial development, it's communication, it's e.g. the relationship of the board with the general meeting, which is the appropriate body, etc. It was in the context of the reference to ‘industrial development’. I can say it in another way: what we mean about industrial development, in Hydro as in other companies, is going to be communicated in the public ownership documents and has been treated in St.meld. No 13 for 2006-2007. That's exactly what we've said there, as we follow up, but I initially registered that some companies were surprised that we actually followed up what we said. But that's what we're going to keep going, neither more nor less. As to why the State did not call for the treatment of the option agreements, it is strange to ask the question concerning the merger documents because the option agreements are individual. They're not known at an individual level for anyone -- they're personally agreed. But what I know is that at least many of them had built-in mechanisms for how to handle them if the company was changed, or if someone joined the company. Therefore, it was not clear to the owner at the time that the option programme had to be terminated. So it first became known to us as a matter that the board worked on June 21, in an incomplete way. And when the representative Foss says that we could do some research, I will refer from E24 on 7 August, where the representative Foss says quite clearly that we could ask BA-HR for a legal review in advance of what the board might adopt. That's what I'm pointing out would be an unusually unfair ownership policy, and that's why I wasn't going to follow that advice. That was the specific advice that I commented on. Finally, this is that I take criticism personally. No, I refer to the same article in E24, where the representative Foss says that the Council of State - and that is therefore personal - is «impossible». I have not recorded that he has been a man enough to withdraw that statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1414	It is right, as the representative Fleet points out, that I will also continue not to neglect any opportunity to describe the Right ownership policy, or lack of such, either the one who has been, the one who is, or the one who comes. Then the ratio is that when you have to quote from this pulpit, you should quote correctly. I did not say that it was wrong to be concerned with the bottom lines of the companies. That should definitely be the case. It is also appropriate to be involved in the listings of companies. What I said was that the attention must not be directed just there. It is also necessary to be able to impose requirements on the development strategies of the company, and stricter requirements should be imposed on undertakings in which the State holds ownership than where it does not have it. I have to say that I am pleased that we have got a new government in Hydro, a government that now lives up to what is the state's expectations and ambitions for its ownership in Norsk Hydro, as it is so well described in the ownership announcement.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1423	I have never stated that the Council of State as a person is inconvenient. I registered that the president did not club by the expression either, but I have stated that I believe that the policy he has pursued in the specific case deserves such a name. On the question of whether or not the option agreement was to be terminated, I would say that it could not be fully known, but it was not an unlikely outcome - to put it that way - that option agreements had to be terminated or changed when an employer was replaced, which was actually up to some of the senior employees in the merger agreement. Otherwise, I ask the Council of State the following questions - one last chance to get a concrete answer to what is in ownership policy, and what is not there: What in the ownership document of Norsk Hydro ASA is what the Council of State believes that former Governor Reinås has been wrong in relation to? Then I ignore the option resolution. I'm asking about the industrial things that the Council of State mentioned. I referred to it as an industrial strategy. What is mentioned in the owner’s document that is believed to have been broken or misrepresented by the former director?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1433	Let me begin with a quote from the representative Foss: ‘The day Terje Andersen has sometimes behaved inconveniently as Minister of Industry, and one can ask why the non-affiliated BA-HR lawyers at an earlier time.’ That confirms both of the statements I made in the previous article -- from E24, as far as I remember, August 7. - That's it. Then the ratio is that we as the Ministry of Ownership of many of the companies in which the state has joint ownership is related to many choices. This applies to directors who are of course specially assessed, and to board members. That would also be the case in Hydro, and that was the case in Hydro this time. As I said in the hearing, it is based on an overall assessment of the efforts of both the Chairperson and the individual board member. It's about communication, it's about how long people have been sitting, and it's about what industrial strategy a persecutor has in the company - as one of the elements. I have stated that there was an overall assessment of the various elements that made it clear to us that we would not, regardless of whether it was going to be an option case in Hydro or not, support Reinås eventually. I have explained that more specifically and in detail to Reinås. I will also in the future, to the extent that there is a need for that kind of conversation, make sure that the assessment of persons, who are also an element of that kind of assessment, does not belong in the public but as a complete assessment that it is a time for everything. For Reinås, the time to continue as chairman would have been over anyway, regardless of the option case. The time was dependent on the option matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1449	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 2178]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1464	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will suggest that there are no replications after the individual posts, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1471	This case has its background in Stortingen’s Rules of Procedure § 12, second paragraph, No. 10b, which assumes that the Government submits an annual notification on the follow-up to the decision containing a request to the Government and on the examination of private proposals adopted by the Government for the examination and opinion. The scheme provides for the Storting to exercise full control over the follow-up of such decisions by the Government. The task of monitoring, therefore, is to ensure the implementation of enlargement decisions according to their wording and not their own political views as such. In the course of the year’s monitoring report, the Prime Minister’s Office has obtained opinions from the respective departments on the follow-up and treatment of decisions of the 2006-2007 Storing Session. The replies are contained in Chapter 2 of the message. Chapter 3 of the notification contains information on decisions taken in the 2005-2006 Storing Session, where the Government of St.meld. No 4 for 2006-2007 has reported further follow-up. Chapter 4 of the Communication refers to some decisions taken from the 2004–2005 review. This concerns decisions in which the Innst Control and Constitutional Committee. S. No 125 for 2006-2007 has expressly provided that the request decisions are referred to in St.meld. No 4 for 2007-2008. In its examination of the notification, the Committee took note of the fact that 20 application decisions have been taken in the 2006-2007 Storing Session. This is an increase from the previous session, but a much lower number of request decisions than was taken between 1999 and 2005. This must be seen in the light of the current parliamentary situation, which is that we have a majority rule. The Committee notes that the notification contains reports on the follow-up to two requests decisions taken in the 2005-2006 Storing Session and reports on the follow-up to eight decisions taken in the 2004-2005 Session. The Committee also recalls its previous views on the overall presentation in the budget proposals of the follow-up to the request decisions referred to in the proposal. The Committee has noted that some departments of St.prp. No 1 for 2007-2008, inter alia The Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of Health and Welfare do not follow this directive. It is a prerequisite for the proper functioning of the control activities that the follow-up to decisions referred to only in a budget proposal is easy to identify in the proposal. As part of the examination of the notification, the Committee decided to ask for any opinions of the Scientific Committees on the request decisions referred to in the Communication. The Committee would point out that the request decisions considered to be satisfactory are not commented on in this position. In addition to what is stated in the opinion, the Committee has no comments, so I refer to the notification and advise the Stortinget to decide that St.Bericht. No 4 for 2007-2008, concerning the request and investigation decisions in the 2006-2007 Storing Session, is annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1488	What we're dealing with now is an assessment or a check of the government's follow-up to the decision making that contains a request to the government. One of the request decisions was Decision No. 419, 10 May 2007, in the context of the so-called administrative or regional reform, which was dealt with in the context of St.meld. No 12 for 2006-2007. The Decision of 10 May 2007 reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the input from municipalities and county councils in terms of future tasks and responsibilities for the new regions until final recommendation is submitted to the Stortinget Spring 2008’.» The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, by letter of 28 August 2007, states the following: ‘The Ministry of Communal and Regional Affairs followed up the decision by letter of 11 May 2007 to its municipalities and counties. The letter drew attention to the decision and briefed that the departments concerned had started work on concreteisation and other assignment to new regions on the basis of St.meld. No 12 Regional advantage - regional future. [[2006-2007]] In view of the Storting decision of 10 May 2007 on additional tasks, it was requested that municipalities and county councils make any representations within the same deadlines as had been set in the previous regional breakdown decisions, i.e.: provisional decisions by 30 June and final decisions by 1 December.» In the same letter, it goes on to say: ‘The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Regional Affairs will make a statement to the Stortinget in its proposal on tasks and regional breakdown planned for spring 2008 to be promoted. 419 have been followed up by the government.» An overall opposition in the Municipal and Administrative Committee states in its opinion that a letter of 11 May ‘is not a satisfactory follow-up to the decision of the Storting because the Government has not followed up the consultation notes on proposals for tasks of the newly elected local government and county councils in the autumn of 2007’. [[...]] The opposition further states in the setting of the case: ‘These members are of the opinion that time is beginning to be very scarce if the Government really had an intention to follow up the Storting decision to listen to recordings before the final recommendation is made’. Today, there is this consultation note that should have arrived in the autumn of 2007. It's late, and it's a little new there. The consultation note is a concreteisation of the tasks adopted in the examination of St.meld. No 12th@item: As regards the request decision, no concrete proposals are made in the consultation note. The government argues that it has not been possible to follow this up now. Few issues have been so thoroughly prepared through various studies on the division of tasks between administrative levels as the regional notification. In addition, the Government itself in the Soria Moria Declaration has announced a comprehensive reform, even a democratic reform, with the move of major tasks to a popular regional level. The size has had extensive consultations in connection with St.meld. No 12, with a series of input on just new regional tasks. So the Storting asked the Government to follow up this work. It amazes me - and it is absolutely necessary to note in this case - that it takes so long before the Government follows up this request decision. The government is hesitating, suspending and postponing the possibilities of a comprehensive democracy reform to which they themselves have committed themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1520	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 2178]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1538	Last year, the State Council asked StatoilHydro to finish the work with the PUD for Troll further development. The reason was that fear of increased gas extraction on Troll would weaken the possibility of extracting large amounts of oil from the field. The OED’s refusal thus concluded the largest investment project in Norway planned for the next few years and one of the largest ever. This most unusual approach affects many actors outside the Troll project, both of a commercial and political nature. However, the rejection by the Council of State was not the subject of any significant public or political debate, whether in the Troll field itself, other projects affected by the lack of infrastructure development, the major deviation between the estimates of OD and StatoilHydro, the implications for Norwegian gas exports and the foreign policy image, or more general issues for authorities' decisions and the raising of knowledge on the socket - many issues that should have been raised in the public debate, but were not affected at all. Because of the scale of the case, I missed a more detailed explanation of the decision of the Council of State. In several rounds, both I and the representative Gunnar Kvassheim took this up in writing with the Council of State. However, the answers did not contain more information than one could read until the press release from the OED, which was sent when the decision was taken. This interpellation is therefore not going on because I believe that the Council of State is wrong, a lot indicates that there is a correct decision in all of this, it travels because I believe the Stortinget has not received enough information to make such an assessment itself. Because the matter is of such importance, more information should have been made available. Both Gunnar Kvassheim and I have also said several times that we wanted an explanation for the Stortinget. One failed to achieve it in an appropriate way, and therefore the Interpellation Institute became the way to do it. Let me make it clear before I go on: I assume that we are going to have the goal of maximizing the value creation from the Norwegian base. I don't think anyone disagrees with that. It is important to avoid losing resources. The first step in the Troll field is an example of the fact that good decisions are likely to have increased value creation very much by thinking twice and would have liked to base things that you didn't immediately think were tricked. I do not criticise that attitude - on the contrary - but decisions must be based on knowledge and assessments of risks and uncertainties. Therefore, it is important that a common sense of reality is created for not least those in authority, including the Storting, so that one can have the same sense of reality when one takes the debate on what is reasonable or not. It is not possible to have a meaningful debate if only one actor has knowledge and information. I would also like to make it clear that I have great confidence in the work that both OD and OED have done over a long time. But what's unusual here is that the OED rejects a PUD three months before the deadline for submitting the PUD expires, and where the disagreement about the impact assessments is enormous. It should also have been illuminated to a greater extent. The concrete problems here are that the largest petroleum project currently under planning, at DKK 50 billion, is being put in a drawer. It would have major ring-effects locally, both for employment and for business. One knows that the supplier industry here is very concerned about what's going on. Just the size and dimensions here make the project interesting in itself. Then there are also possible consequences for further investment in oil and gas projects, especially in the Norwegian Sea, by not realizing the transport solution to the continent through a gas pipeline. Thor Otto Lohne in Gassco has said that now that this has happened, we will be able to start a new gas pipeline in 2015 at the earliest. What does it mean for the incentives of the oil companies to develop further in the Norwegian Sea in terms of gas, when the transport solution is not in place? Several analysts have pointed to both Total's Victoria field and Shell's Onyx field as a little bit in danger here. Others say it's not a problem. With regard to energy supply expectations for the EU, Norway is now the second largest supplier of energy for the EU. Many hoped and thought that Norway would be the largest. Now one sees that analysts and public authorities in the EU put a big question about it. Energy security is very important politically, not just in Norway, but even more in the EU, precisely because it depends on so much imported energy. And Norway has been the only stable supplier of energy to the EU. Now we're talking about gas. With so many countries that are a little looted and energy-supplied, the EU had a great interest in securing the wider supply from Norway. I understand this was also communicated at the oil conference at Sanderstølen. It should have given greater emphasis to informing the public about what assessments were made here. It's the material sides of this. But this case also raises a number of more overarching fundamental issues, with the focus on the StatoilHydro merger. The government expressed great confidence in StatoilHydro’s ability to manage petroleum resources on the base when the companies were merged. There were great expectations that one would be able to maintain a diversity in the new company by continuing to play against one another through a so-called internal battle. But in the first case presented by StatoilHydro, OED finds it necessary to shut down and say no to that project. Then you have to ask the question: if you don't manage to get the diversity and the struggle to get something positive in this case, in what other things do you think that you will get so much more benefit from it? Is it simply such that we had unrealistic expectations, and was it created an unrealistic image of what kind of diversity StatoilHydro would still have? In this case, the authorities have obviously benefited from the fact that the project has been planned and discussed for a long time. It has been widely known that the environments of Hydro and Statoil have had different approaches to Troll. We know that Hydro's line has largely coincided with OD's line. I'm not saying it's wrong. On the contrary, there has been an advantage for the authorities historically, because they have gained a broader decision-making base by allowing different disciplines to challenge each other qualitatively. Then the question is, have we lost this for the future? How would the OED deal with the matter if Troll Development was first investigated, when one no longer has two major knowledge environments that fight against each other in the public but are sitting and fighting internally, and the OED and OED people do not necessarily have access to the same different assessments they have received in the Troll Development case? Can we simply risk that a new Troll Development project would slide through the OED simply because one had not gained access to information and knowledge from various actors, as we have had in this matter? In that case, it would be a loss for the nation, as the Minister of Oil and Energy believes that it has been important to break down the decisions of the companies. Would we be able to have the same knowledge in the future, so that we could have done it again, if there was a need for it? The enormous deviation in the estimates of the Oil Directorate and the oil analysts on the loss of oil production makes it apparent that there is a need for more disciplines that can challenge each other. While the OED/OD operates with loss rates up to 600 million barrels of oil - at least 65 million barrels, but losing up to 600 million barrels for the entire production period - some analysts claim that the loss is a maximum of 30 million barrels, generally down to zero. This difference in estimate is on the fainting 2,000 pst. I don't know what's right, and I'm not going to argue for one or the other, but when there's such a big difference to relate to, I would have thought that one would take another round to figure out the big difference. What can one do to pinch down so that one takes a smaller risk and has a smaller margin to stay within when one is going to make the decisions? Several questions arise as to whether the incentive structure of the petroleum industry is correct when the oil company of the State, to which the Government has expressed such high expectations, has to be overruled by the bureaucrats of the State in order to achieve optimum value creation. There is reason to believe that oil also has a value for StatoilHydro, and that also that company has an interest in maximising total value creation - not only for the gas part, but for both the gas part and the oil part. Then again, it becomes a little bit strange that such a big actor, where the state is so dominant, and who has had such great confidence, is being tested by the OED. That is why I want the Council of State to clarify the reasons for the decision and how the Ministry will approach future resource management.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1573	I thank you for this opportunity to go through my decision not to supply gas production on Troll. The Troll field is a giant field with large remaining volumes of oil and gas. It contains about 10 pst. of the total reserves of oil and gas on the Norwegian base. Troll is clearly the largest Norwegian gas field, it's four times larger than the Worm Lange. Originally, only the Troll gas resources were considered to be exploitable. Much effort has been made to develop oil resources in the field. This effort has resulted in Troll developing into one of the largest Norwegian oilfields. The Oil Directorate has been a central driver in this work. How much oil can be produced from Troll is particularly affected by further technology development and development in field reservoir conditions, in addition to the oil price. Should Troll realise its full oil potential, conditions must be established to ensure long-term oil production. The gas extraction from Troll is an essential factor in this image. In its assessments, the Director of Oil has clearly dissuaded from increasing the gas take-off from Troll. The decision not to accept increased gas take-offs on Troll is therefore a continuation of the sound and sustainable management of Norwegian oil and gas resources. Norway has a long tradition of ensuring a balanced extraction of oil and gas from the fields on the base. In addition to Troll, Ekofisk, Oseberg and Åsgard are examples of fields where gas production has been regulated by Norwegian authorities for this purpose. Work on the Troll project further development started in 2003. The goal was to assess whether the production of gas from Troll could accelerate. This would provide a basis for building new gas export capacity by extensions to the Collsnes terminal and a new pipeline to the United Kingdom or the continent. This pipeline could also provide space for a new pipeline from the Norwegian Sea to Kollsnes. The rightholders chose the concept for Troll further development in the summer of 2007. Following the last plans made by the Ministry’s decision in the autumn of 2007, it was expected that the development plan would be submitted to the authorities in January 2008. The Ministry warned the rightholders in letter of 18 October 2007 that a plan for the development and operation of Troll further development, based on the assumption that increased gas extraction, would not be promoted by Stortinget, for the sake of oil extraction from the field. It will be costly and technically demanding to extract the oil in the Troll field. It will require drilling of many wells, and only the first 100 of the rightholders are estimated to cost NOK 40 billion. The picture showed, however, that there were great values we risked losing if we accelerated the gas take-off. Planning the extraction of these oil resources takes time, including: because it depends on technological developments. If the gas take-off on Troll had been accelerated, the field would have a shorter production horizon and thus shorter time to extract the oil. Based on the resource management, I thought and believe that the gas take-off on Troll should not be accelerated. We can always take back the gas production later. There has been a different perception among rightholders in assessing the possibilities for increased oil extraction. The views of the oil directorate have largely coincided with those of the Norwegian Hydro as an oil operator. Trolls are a complex field and have a special history of oil versus gas issues. We have very good experience in following the Oil Directorate's advice on resource management on Troll, and we did so in this context as well. The Ministry and the Oil Directorate have had a close follow-up to the Troll development project throughout the process. Authorities have been in dialogue with rightholders and revised plans for the project have been submitted. The involvement of the authorities in Troll’s further development was not exceptional. The authorities have a close follow-up of important projects at the stage of development plans. Work on plans for expansion and operation is expensive, and I would not extend this unnecessarily. Therefore, I thought it was natural to inform the Troll rights holders when I had sufficient knowledge and information to make a decision. The Interpellation claimed that Troll further development was the largest ongoing investment project in Norway. According to reports to the Oil Directorate in the autumn of 2006, Troll oil was the largest investment project in Norway. It was also greater than Troll’s further development and investment in gas exports combined in the period 2008-2011. One of the consequences of the decision in October was that the rightholders completed the work on new gas exports from Kollsnes to the United Kingdom or the continent. In this context, it is important to stress that Norway is an important and stable supplier of gas to Europe. Norway’s exports cover about 16 pst. of European consumption of gas. The fact that Troll’s further development is curtailed does not change the main picture we have presented, which shows that Norwegian gas production will increase significantly. The issue of the relationship between oil and gas production on Troll has been known for a long time. In our contact with potential recipient countries, we have underlined that the project has been subject to assessments because of the uncertainty associated with this very relationship. The Troll rightholders have worked on the plans for the further development of the Troll field since October. We're expecting a plan for expansion and operation for the summer. The plan will include: include gas injection for increased oil extraction from Troll B and a new gas pipeline from Troll A to Kollsnes. In addition, there are comprehensive plans for well drilling for increased oil extraction. The Norwegian resource management policy is based on several instruments. First of all, we have a tax system and a regulation to facilitate that companies in general will have incentives to make socially profitable decisions. At the same time, we need resource management authorities to assess individual decisions where there may be discrepancies between corporate assessments and what is the best solution for society. On Troll, the differences in the assessment of companies and authorities have been particularly related to the potential for long-term increased extraction of oil resources. This was the background to the intervention by the authorities in the implementation of the oil in connection with the first Troll development plans. Now the authorities are of the opinion that a lower gas take-off than the companies provided in their new plans is better suited to, among other things. future technology developments to enable increased oil production to be realised on Troll. Our system has been put together so that the authorities have a real assessment of development projects. But let me also add that there is a relatively high threshold for the authorities to go into individual decisions and review them. Trolls are examples of authorities’ judgements differing from those of companies. In the future, too, our system will facilitate the inclusion of the socio-economic best solutions in the development plans promoted. But there could also be examples where the authorities will have to intervene because we have different assessments than the companies. If I were to sum up, I could say the following: The Troll decision was taken on the basis of clear advice on resource management from the Oil Directorate. The decision is in line with the Norwegian case law on ensuring sound resource management in the field where gas production affects oil production. The decision will not affect Norway’s gas supply estimates over the next 10-15 years. It only includes the time phase-in of a limited amount of gas that will now be 5-20 years later. The decision on Troll is not a result of exceptional involvement but a continuation of the sound and sustainable resource management of the Norwegian oil and gas fields.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1630	Thank you for the presentation. A lot of this was known. I had really hoped that the Council of State would go a little deeper in matter and explained, for example. the various estimates available for the loss of oil if one had taken more of the gas at an earlier stage. So the estimates are very different. There has been a topic in the written questions that have been sent to the Council of State before, so she should have known that there was a problem you were dealing with - it was even mentioned in the interpellation text. Surface assessments, well, that can all agree, but the point is what kind of facts you base it on, that's what's interesting here, so that at Stortinget we can also make our assessments -- not because here I claim that the Council of State is wrong, but because there are different assessments. Everyone must be able to have his or her own opinion. Now it's not common for the Storting to go into detail on such matters. But when a person gets a case for discussion, I think that one should take that glove from the Council of State as well. And in the case of gas loss, yes, of course you can take it back later. The question is what costs you can expect a person to want to do more than that today - so you have to explain why 100 kroner in 20 years is as attractive as 100 kroner today. Is it because you think that one actually gets $200 in 20 years that makes it attractive, or is there any other reason? I don't feel that the state council here has been sufficiently involved. Governments mentioned incentives to oil companies. In the light of this case, does the Council of State think that the incentives are good enough, or is it such that when you bring the next oil message, you should also review it? Because when the largest oil company obviously doesn't have the right incentives to maximize value creation for society, you can't expect all the other oil companies to feel that they have the right incentives either. Then one should like to see whether there are things we can do with the incentive system in the form of research funds, in the form of tax systems, in the form of geological approaches that make it a better overall picture, which means that decisions taken by oil companies are more in the interests of society, so that the best investments in society are also the most desired investments in the economy. Competition and diversity can counteract a degree of uniformity in technological assessments and geological assessments. The competition between Statoil and Hydro weighed up in a way for what some call market failures, by always making mistakes when making assessments based on subjective things. How does the Council of State think that the OED and the OD should compensate for the loss of diversity we experienced when StatoilHydro merged?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1639	Let me first say that the interpellant is raising a number of important issues to which we need to pay close attention. But let me first take this with the different estimates. It is that the Oil Directorate, to which reference has been made here, believed that accelerated gas production, according to the TDF project, would lead to a direct oil loss of about 65 million barrels. In addition, extensive production losses could be achieved in the long term with an effect up to 600 million barrels for the entire production period to the Troll field. Those are hard numbers. They're maritimely obsessed with significant uncertainty, and there's always a lot of ways to figure out. But the thing that's clear is that it's possible for the authorities to have a longer time horizon on what we're dealing with than it's natural for the companies to have. When we as responsible authorities are going to make our decisions, we're going to be dependent on listening to the best professional environments we have, and in this context, it's the Oil Directorate. Then there's a long process behind the oil director's number. They have traditionally had close dialogue with the companies in the process until they concluded the seas. The point is that as the responsible political authority, I must listen to the most neutral body and the strongest professional body we have, which is the Oil Directorate. On the issue of the competitive environment on Norwegian soil, there is an important and interesting issue. Troll further development is an example of Hydro and Statoil, respectively, having different approaches to how the oil and gas were to be handled. When the gas division in Hydro is now combined with Statoil, it imposes a great deal of follow-up requirements on the authorities. Because that's right, as the interpellant suggests, you don't have the automatic counter-expertise that we had with two heavy companies. I want to emphasise in the future that we are strengthening the environments that can contribute counter-expertise to StatoilHydro. This applies both to the administrative apparatus and to smaller companies operating on a Norwegian base.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1648	An assessment of the Troll further development project has been carried out. It is done for all projects that have such dimensions. These studies show that there is a high potential for increased oil extraction from the Troll field. Accelerated gas production on Troll would lead to an oil loss, while reducing the potential for profitable oil extraction. It is important to stress that it costs a lot to extract the oil, and that it will be technically demanding. However, the picture is clear that there are great values we risk losing if we accelerate the gas extraction. It will also take time to plan the extraction of these oil resources. If we speed up the gas extraction on Troll, we'll lose time, because we'll have to extract these oil resources earlier. That's also part of the picture. Trolls are known as a large field, with a special history of oil extraction. Treatment practice is that authorities are always involved in the pre-delivery phase of the PUD, to ensure that the plan is in line with good resource management, and to ensure effective treatment by the authorities in the authorisation process. In our view, the decision not to approve increased gas withdrawals from Troll will not affect Norwegian gas exports much in the medium or long term. The same gas volumes will be produced from Troll, but with increased gas outlets, which are planned for Troll further development, the volumes would have been produced over a shorter period of time. One does not lose gas production, but pushes the production out on time. As the Council of State said, the petroleum authorities have, among other things, long tradition of ensuring a balanced extraction of oil and gas from the fields. The councils referred to both Ekofisk, Oseberg and Åsgard, as well as Troll. This is the case where production has been regulated by Norwegian authorities. The Troll decision is precisely a continuation of the sound and sustainable resource management of the Norwegian oil and gas fields, in line with the administrative regime with which the Stortinget has been involved in drawing up earlier, during the processing of the various communications to the Stortinget. The main point in this case is that we would have risked losing large values in oil production if we had accelerated the gas extraction on Troll. Gas production can always be repeated at a later stage. The decision taken by the Council of State shows that we have a good Norwegian petroleum management, and it has been at its best in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1663	There are very important issues involved in today's interpellation. It has been useful to get the Council of State's assessments, even though I agree with the interpellant's wish that one could go something more thorough to work -- given the history, with the various assessments that have been. Let it be clear: there is no doubt that the Ministry of Oil and Energy is fully entitled to refuse the owner of the Troll field to increase the production of gas. The decision that has been made is in line with the tradition that we have had in this kind of case. But it is also a decision that concerns great values and has great consequences. Therefore, transparency and debate about the decision and the basis on which it is based are important. We are dealing with many things in this house that have far less consequences than this case. Let me also stress that I have no reason to say that it was a crazy decision. On the contrary, the Council of State argues well for its decision. However, the doubts raised and the alternative points of view present provide a basis for asking questions and a basis for a desire to gain more transparency in the decision-making framework. It has therefore been important to ask for the resource and strategic assessments behind the decision taken by the Minister of Oil and Energy. There were extremely large differences in the estimates of loss of oil production coming from qualified environments - the best environments we have in this area. Only that, I think, suggests that one gives a thorough account of how one has come up with these different estimates, and why one attaches most trust to one and not to the other. By stopping the expansion and operation plan, the Ministry of Oil and Energy will not be able to assess on a broad basis resource management, value creation and industrial and market developments related to the decision taken. There are good reasons for cutting off such a process. It has been pointed out that one of the implications of stopping the project is that the gas pipeline from Kollsnes to the continent, with overcapacity to meet transport needs for a number of areas in the Norwegian Sea, is stopped and it may have implications for gas use in other fields. I have also noticed that the gas buyers on the continent are concerned. There is a concern that has been reinforced - in the light of a situation in which Russia seems to have problems serving its growing internal demand, and how many expect it to affect their exports. If the Council of State believes that the decision that was taken was an obvious and correct decision - and she has argued well for that today - it is a cross of thought that the company was so obviously just as sure that their decision was the right one. Here we are at the heart of a point that I hope the Council of State will confirm will be discussed in connection with the next oil notification, namely whether we have a poor incentive structure, which means that a company has a different perspective on what is the right resource use than what the authorities have. The second thing I hope the Council of State can reflect a little on is when decisions like this are taken - and they are to be taken by the Ministry - can help to get information about the decision-making bases and the various assessments that have been made, so that one can subsequently have an assessment and a debate on the decision, because it relates to such great values and may have implications for other fields and subsequent decisions. I hope that the Council of State can reflect on that in its summary.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1684	It's okay that someone wants to boast of good decisions on behalf of their own government -- that's understandable. But in a debate like this, it's a little pointless to do so, because there's no way to verify whether it's actually a good decision or not, as long as you don't have access to the data that shows different assessments. And as we know, history does not show alternatives 20 years ahead of time. The representative of Nordtun is therefore allowed to take on his own coat whether the decision is good or not. I would like to have the number material to vote in a hundred percent and say that I agree. The remaining question remains, when there is such a significant deviation in estimates: Is there a loss of 30 million barrels, or is it a loss of 600 million barrels? If I had run an enterprise and made two investment calculations like it was 2,000 pst. difference in the bottom line, so I think those who put the money bag would have said, "Go back and do the math again and find two alternatives where the deviations are a little smaller!" There should be greater transparency in such matters, so that we can understand and look at the decision-making basis that has been taken. Only then will you get the trust you need to be able to get behind it. Then one in the oil notification should review the incentives for the oil industry, so that oil companies and society have the same interest in making investment decisions. Because, as I said, when StatoilHydro, where the state is now going to own two thirds, in this case, has not been able to see what the social aims are, we should not believe that other oil companies will care for that interest. And when StatoilHydro is not able to care for that interest in Troll further development, how can we believe that StatoilHydro will take care of the wishes of the political environment about the breadth of research, about caring for the supplier industry - all that was communicated so well when the merger was debated at Stortinget? I expect that the Council of State in the oil communications will focus on the agencies - whether there is a need to strengthen some of them further. That was a demand from the opposition when the StatoilHydro merger was debated and adopted. It has been done a little by the authorities, but I think this case here testifies that there is still a bit left. It is not certain that one in the future will enjoy having two competing environments that can debate the matter in public before it comes to a decision in the department, as we have had in this matter. I record, even though the Council of State says that the international signals have been clear from the Government, that there are several international actors who have said that the decision that was taken came as a shock to them. Then the prime minister would like to have been more offensive in his promises than the Council of State has been when he has spoken to foreign actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1697	Let me first thank you for the debate. Then I just want to note that nobody in this Chamber is criticising the decision. I'm glad. I think it's excellent that we have a discussion about this, because, as has been said here, there are big things we're talking about. It is a good Norwegian tradition and good resource management to ensure that we get the most out of the fields on the Norwegian base. Therefore it would be wrong not to bring the oil. Then we would lose big values. It is important to stress that the production of gas on Troll will not suffer from the fact that we take the oil out. The gas will be produced. It will come to our friends on the continent. I do not conceal that one of the elements that I carefully assessed in connection with this decision was precisely the relationship with the recipient countries on the continent. We are dedicated to being a stable and credible gas supplier. I thought it was right to take the decision we made, also because it was clearly communicated to our partners on the continent that there was uncertainty about whether Troll's further development would be realised. If I had been insecure, I should have thought about another round. There is no doubt that this has been communicated. So it might be a little different what people like to hear, and what they've heard. But I feel calm about it, seen from our side. When I decided to stop the project before the PUD was presented, it was because at that time I felt absolutely certain that I had enough knowledge to say no, and that the answer would never be anything else. That's why I think it would be pointless to wipe out another $10 million for the companies by going further in the planning work. In the case of pipeline capacity to the continent, it's seaworthy something we've been looking rigidly attached to. We want to ensure that we have sufficient pipeline capacity to deliver the quantities of gas that we have promised. Then there are questions about the incentive structure and whether we want to bring it up for discussion in the energy message, which will contain a significant part of the oil and gas business. I would like to respond positively to that. I understand that this is a problem that is being addressed, and we will make sure to sign it out in the message. But at the same time, let me stress what I've said before, that it might always be possible for the authorities to make different assessments than the ones they're doing. So I'm concerned about openness in the field of petroleum policy. That's what I believe and hope I've shown through some decisions that I've made. I'm going to pay attention to that also in the continuation. I therefore appreciate that we have discussions like this in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1717	The debate on substance is closed. 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1732	In its speech in the Oslo Military Society on 7 January this year, the Council of State said that the defence sector is facing major challenges and that we need to make some important choices. The Christian People's Party fully agrees. The Government appointed a Defence Policy Selection, which, at the end of October 2007, delivered NOU 2007:15, a reinforced defence. Furthermore, the 2007 Defence Study came from the Chief of Defense in November. These are the two documents that are primarily used for the new long-term plan for 2009-2012, which the Government will present before Easter. As the Christian People's Party reads the investigation from the Defence Policy Selection, it is set as a good starting point for discussing the overall and principal before launching the 2007 Defence Study, which takes into account detailed structures in relation to an economic framework - a little simplified to say. The Christian People's Party believes it would be a strength for the long-term plan if one had principles and overall goals in place before base structure, closures and relocations become a political struggle. It is worth noting that the treatment of the long-term defence plan was moved last time in order to avoid a heated debate in the same year as the major elections took place. There was also a need for an implementation proposal to clarify the transition following the 2001 treatment of the long-term plan. The need for defence and what defence we politicians believe Norway needs, which must be the lead. Rematches and constant changes cause unrest both in the organisation and in the families involved. In the last few months, I have met a very large number of trustees in the Defence Department who express great concern at the ongoing process of conversion. Furthermore, it is also the case that defence facilities are being built or refurbished one year, for then, after a few years, to be relocated and placed in a mill bag. This can be seen as nothing but poor planning and waste of taxpayers' money; at least that's how we experience it, according to what the public tells us. Predictability is a keyword, and it is also part of the thinking behind this interpellation. The Christian People's Party has noticed that the government-appointed Defence Policy Committee was clear in its recommendation to its sponsor. In NOU 2007:15, A strengthened defense, it says: ‘The Committee considers that the necessary predictability of the defence framework can only be created through a broad political settlement across the party boundaries. The committee recommends that the government add a process to its work on the new defence long-term plan. [[2009-2012]] This recommendation has not been followed up by the Government, with the consequences and unforeseeableness it entails. Thus, in the view of the Christian People's Party, the government has deprived the opposition parties of the opportunity to participate in the overall and principleal debate for which the Defence Policy Committee provided the basis. Among other things, the Christian People's Party has called for what NATO believes about the changes that have been proposed - without having received anything other than oral assurances about it. Furthermore, the Christian People's Party believes that it must be a major challenge for the Defense that, in almost the entire implementation phase of a transition, a strong focus is also placed on future conversion processes, as the Minister has also stated. For example, the 2007 Defence Study was launched as early as 2005, the first year of the current long-term planning period. It's okay to have two thoughts in your head at the same time, but when you read with what depth the defense goes through security policy scenarios and the whole range of possible challenges and situations, the Council of State formulation is that every four years we "throw the whole defense up and reassemble the pieces", very striking. Working in parallel both with migration and with a comprehensive defence study with objectives and needs for the future may create uncertainty as to which objectives apply and are to be achieved. In a large-scale sector, it is very important that management steers in a common direction. The Christian People's Party has noticed that the Defence Policy Committee was surprised at how many of the Defence leaders expressed differing opinions on both road choices, speed and methods in an adopted conversion plan. This may indicate that the organisation’s ability to implement the conversion is affected, and it contributes to indelibility internally in the Defence of Goals and Directions. In addition, it can help to weaken the organisation's external reputation, which the Christian People's Party feels is serious. Defence studies and a comprehensive change of defence have been absolutely necessary. The fact that the migration targets have been changed from one planning period to the next is due to the fact that there has been an imbalance between political ambitions, economic assumptions and actual economic allocations. However, the defense is now at a crossroads. Christian People's Party believes that the 2007 Defence Study shows that Defence is at a minimum level. If this is not done wisely now, Norwegian authorities will be given less and less freedom of action to meet a wide range of challenges with national military units. A sustained reduction in defence is incompatible with the fundamental and timeless responsibility for providing security for the state, the population and society, and for protecting and promoting national values and interests. Norway needs a modern, efficient and credible defence. It can only be maintained through continuous development. At the same time, both human and financial resources need to be used in an appropriate way. Therefore, the Christian People's Party would like to be involved in finding solutions that will take care of the intentions behind today's defence study and planning periods. The Christian People's Party sees a possible change where the leadership of the defence is more extensive, and in line with what I believe the minister was also involved, should have the possibility of continuous strategic planning and conversion. The change of defence from 2002 until now has been necessary to ensure better consistency between defence tasks and structure and to ensure a better balance between resource needs and supply. The Christian People's Party sees it as a good basis for further development of defence for the period 2009-2012, and further forward towards 2020. The risk picture and the safety challenges are changeable, so the defence must be designed to address environmental changes. This means that tasks, level of ambition, structure, education and training need to be continuously adjusted. At the same time, however, there must be political governance at individual road junctions. This is essentially the starting point for the question. I conclude with the following question: Does the Council of State believe that the intention of the Defence Policy Committee for a broad political settlement with contact between the Government and all the parties on the Stortinget in the course of their work has been followed up? And further, what does the Council of State think about doing with the political control and governance of the Defense if one goes away from the model of four-year cycles on the long-term plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1784	The Government shall soon present a long-term plan for the Storting which will also address the issues raised by the representative Sahl in this interview. I am in any case happy that the matter is being raised today, so that we can have a discussion on this important topic. With regard to the question of how to reach a broad political settlement, I would like to stress once again that it is important for us, on the part of the Government, to complete the matter before it can be sent to Stortinget. After the Cold War, the framework conditions of the defence sector have changed considerably. A more uncertain and complex, high-dynamic threat picture characterises Norway's security policy environment, both globally and in our own neighbourhoods. The need for change arises faster and more continuously. Strategic defence planning cannot therefore rely solely on a projection of the current situation. It must also provide a robust basis for change and adaptation to the unforeseen, both in the short and longer term. This imposes increased demands on long-term strategic planning in the defence sector. It must be able to address changes continuously and manage them in a sufficiently long-term and comprehensive perspective. Today, we find that the framework and conditions for the activities of the defence sector are changing so rapidly that choices and priorities made in some areas need to be adjusted after only a short time. Furthermore, it is a challenge that, early on in each new planning period, we need to relaunch the work on comprehensive and comprehensive reforms in which large parts of the defence sector are ‘frozen’. This helps both to weaken the long-termity of policy decisions that have just been taken and to remove the focus from the implementation of adopted plans. It also creates undue uncertainty and insecurity in the organisation, in the individual employees and in the communities affected by the activities of the Defence, which I also understood the interpellant to agree with. In municipalities and regions where the defence is a central player, this creates an ever-increasing uncertainty, with consequences for both jobs, industrial development, housing prices and other conditions. These challenges need to be met by finding a good and proper balance between the long-term need for stability and sustainability and the ability to adapt in the short term. This is challenging. It implies, on the one hand, that the development of the defence sector must be based on concrete and long-term objectives that are fixed over time. Both the planning and implementation work must have a sufficient time horizon. Central objectives and priorities cannot be changed continuously. This will lead to a loss of guiding power and to an ad hoc development in which overall priorities are replaced by short-term, changing and random considerations. At the same time, long-term planning needs to be organised in such a way that it can respond to changes to a greater extent than at present and that it can be adjusted as necessary. The objective must be to provide the most robust basis for the long-term development of defence, where the necessary changes can be addressed within defined overall objectives and priorities. The Government therefore proposes that the future development of the defence sector should take place through a more continuous strategic and long-term development work within the framework of the Integrated Ministry. This shall be a natural, clear and more permanent activity in the strategic management of the defence sector, and to a lesser extent appear as exceptional and comprehensive shippers. This shall contribute to: ensure increased predictability and less uncertainty of the defence, as its employees and cooperation partners create a better match between planning and implementation ensure that short-term priorities are made in a long-term perspective and, as a whole, establish a more robust planning basis and better documented traceability in the planning process strengthen the long-term perspective of all parts of the business; Such an approach follows the key assumptions underlying the establishment of today’s integrated strategic leadership in the defence sector. This is about strengthening the ability of strategic long-term planning, implementation and governance in the defence sector. In this context, close and integrated processes are essential between political and professional decision-makers. The Defence Manager shall continue to promote independent professional and professional advice, as set out in his instructions. At the same time, particular attention must be paid to the continuous inclusion of the trade-military councils as an integral part of the overall planning process until a decision is taken. These shall remain visible and identifiable. A more continuous approach to long-term planning will also not change the relationship with the Storting. The size will continue to be presented and will address the overall and long-term objectives of the defence sector’s organisation and activities. Politically adopted long-term plans must remain a central foundation for the development of the defence sector. However, the approach allows for greater flexibility, where the scope, alignment and frequency of the planning and decision-making documents presented to the Storting can be better adapted to the need for change. A fundamental shift from a traditional invasion defence to a modern response defence is well under way. This does not mean that the modernisation of the defence has been completed, but that it should be sought to bring the development of the defence into a more stable and predictable path. The objective is to create a situation in which progress is to a greater extent made through gradual adjustments in the context of long-term objectives, rather than through frequent and comprehensive reforms. A more continuous approach to long-term planning will strengthen the ability of the defence sector to meet new demands and challenges. At the same time, this presupposes the establishment of the most stable and sustainable basis for the activities of the defence sector, aiming at a long-term balance between the level of ambition, structure and resource availability. It is therefore a central objective of the Government to create such a foundation through the long-term proposition that the Government is now in the process of finalising.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1828	I thank the Council of State for the information and the answer that has been given so far. I would like to express on the part of the Christian People's Party that much of what the Council of State concentrated on sounds like good music in our ears. We're going to try to get on a different track in terms of defence, where, first of all, we're going to end up with a realistic relationship between the economy and the structure you're looking at. It may have a somewhat longer-term effect than it has had at least during the last two rolls, with the consequences this has had not least for the family situation of the defense employees who feel that they have been demolished repeatedly after time, and for the loss we have had over time in terms of good resources in the defense. So we look with great excitement up to the long-term message to be provided. We will read it with a keen look to see if we can now find an agreement on a future arrangement, so that we do not move up the defence every four years, and whether good and strong relations can be built between those who have responsibility for defence and politicians at government level, so that in the future we can get such messages only when there is a great need to do something. So to the first piece that I was not so much aware that the minister would give no clear answer to now. Maybe it didn't go so well with the interpellation that it was part of what we wanted to ask about. The Christian People's Party is disappointed that the intention of the Defence Policy Committee has not been followed up, so that the opposition parties have been given the opportunity to enter into conversation with the Government -- and I stress that there is a majority government -- about how the Defence is to be organised in the future. We see it very much like this. I would like to hear the Minister's view of it. Here there are three parties in the government that have different views and that are going to work together. I cannot imagine that there are large openings because the opposition in Stortinget is at all involved in an intervention in a skirted negotiated arrangement. I don't think that will be the case either.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1839	Let me first say that I am pleased to hear that the Christian People's Party will at least enter into dialogue on the long-term plan of defence. It is clear that the defence has not been served that there is no broad agreement on the plans available. It has just been a strength that, through what has been adopted in the past, one has had broad agreements and has seen it as a great responsibility for all parties. Getting a relationship between economy and structure is demanding. It has certainly been an ambition for all governments, but equally fully we see that it is also demanding in the current long-term planning period. With regard to what Sahl says about the insecurity of families and employees when you start a defence study every four years and ask questions about absolutely everything, you can point to an example, for example: Andøya, where every defense study is scary for you to go down there. This plan does not really mention Andøya. It creates a great uncertainty that you are always living four years ahead of time, and there is no good situation. This does not mean that the structure must be defined for all future purposes. You have to have a little bit bigger and a little bit clearer goals, a little bit more long-term goals, but at the same time draw the change processes that will be necessary, a little bit closer in time. That's the big challenge, and I really perceive that the interpellant is very much in agreement with what I have at least addressed. We will also address and discuss this in the long-term plan, so that it is possible to come back to it. With regard to the selection of defence policy and the desire for a broad compromise, I do not feel there is any contradiction in that. But it is actually the case that when a government council is going to file a case, there must be a few opportunities to present this matter to the government and then to the Stortinget. That doesn't mean we don't like to be involved in a dialogue, but we have to finish the work first. Then, too, all the documentation and supporting material for what we provide, of course, will be available to everyone at Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1850	I would like to thank the inter-pellant Sahl and the Council of State for their contributions, which address a very important issue. This is essentially about how we will achieve the most stable and sustainable foundation for defence on a long-term basis and not have constant changes in investment, which then often becomes short-term. In my view, we have significant challenges in terms of defence, in the years to come, if we cannot reconcile the structure of defence, tasks and financial frameworks. As this hall should be well known, the problem is that there has always been a gap between the initial assumptions of the long-term plans and the actual, adopted annual budgets, regardless of who has been in government. In my opinion, this is why, in each new period of planning, we have to start over from experienced budgets, and thus throw the entire defence into the air and reassemble the pieces every four years. Unfortunately, this contributes to both weakening the long-termity of the policy decisions taken and removing the focus from the implementation of adopted plans. In addition, there is undue uncertainty and insecurity in the internal defence, in the individual employees, and in the communities affected by the activities of the defence, uncertainty about investing in housing, where the value of the defence can suddenly be small, uncertainty about moving the family with them, and uncertainty for the municipality as regards investments in kindergartens, schools, etc. I believe that this is no longer possible. On this occasion, I would like to point out that in the last study of the Defence Manager, FS07, relatively drastic measures have been proposed to balance the defence structure within a stable continuation of today's level of funding, precisely on the basis of this. This has been done by a substantial reduction in the number of bases and a significantly lower level of ambition for the operational structure. Defence policy selection has, for its part, pointed out that today's defence is at a crossroads, and that the permanent dismantling of defence is not compatible with the fundamental and timeless responsibility to create security for the state, the population and society, and to protect and promote national values and interests. Therefore, the selection of defence policy concludes that the defence must be strengthened both during and after the next four years. An economic uplift of at least DKK 1 billion has been proposed from the sample only to ensure the army’s ability to contribute sufficient personnel, both nationally and in operations abroad, under the auspices of the UN and NATO. For this reason, I would like to stress the need for a long-term and predictable economic uplift in defence if Norway were to remain free to take action to meet a wide range of challenges with national military units, both at home and outside. I therefore also hope, as the Defence Policy Committee, that this year we will be able to achieve a broad political settlement in which we will ensure the long-term and predictability of a robust and strong defence, and not least that for the future we will avoid throwing the entire defence into the air and putting the pieces together again every four years. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State in its response to the interpellant Sahl stressed that the Government is committed to creating the most stable and sustainable foundation for defence on a long-term basis. How the representative Sahl thinks the opposition is going into work before the government has concluded, I don't understand. It has never happened before. Even when the Christian People's Party was in a tripartite government, both under the Bondevik I government and under the Bondevik II government, it was the same procedure as it is now, when it came to providing long-term plans. But it is quite possible for the Christian People's Party to be involved and influence the next long-term plan in a broad settlement during the handling of the matter here in the Stortinget, as has been the case in several other major cases lately.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1871	The representative Sahl has traveled an interesting interpellation here today. The question is whether it should not have traveled before, preferably several years ago. The defence has for relatively many years been marked by changes, which in turn have given some frustration and a lack of predictability. This has happened not only under socialist rule, but also under bourgeois rule. It is not long since the defence was reduced by approx. 5 000 people - the number of military camps and the number of square metres of built-up land and budgets were reduced. This created and created great frustration. The defense also gave large take-off packages to those who left voluntarily, thus losing many highly skilled employees in whom the defense really needs in the difficult time the defense is in. Nor will it be better that what the Defense orders under one government is converted by a new government - and many kroner and plans have been completely or partially discarded. The last example of this -- if that's what the head of defense wants -- is our new MTBs, with a price tag of nearly $12 billion. These were ordered, and almost all of them are completed. But, and here it's a big but, the operating costs of approx. 200 million. kr of the year is currently not available in any budget. This is also the case with other investments that the Defense has made, without me mentioning more here and now. The next investment of great economic importance for many years to come is the purchase of new fighter aircraft. The question is from who, how many, with what equipment, training etc. In addition, other elements such as repurchase agreements and agreements that may affect Norway’s relationship with other countries, to organisations, to our allies and not least to our non-allies. So there are many things that affect the Defense, the Defense's way of being and the Defence's freedom of action. This I have now mentioned - although it is only a small part - creates great challenges for the defence and, as I said, some frustration. The Defence Committee was in Denmark a while ago. There we were told that there was a broad political consensus on how much money you would spend in a four-year period. If I remember correctly, there was also agreement on the plans. This was all very pleased with, and the defense got calm and predictable. Just this with predictability is important. It creates work rest, and you get to do what you have to do. Norway needs a good defence. Norway needs a defence that can be both in the air, on the ground, on the water, and under the water in order to safeguard our interests. To this end, Norway needs a defence budget that is proportionate to what we politicians believe the defence should do. To get predictability, we need plans and financial resources that are the same for several years, like for example. in Denmark, for a period of four years. Then we'll get a defense in development. Finally, I would like to mention the challenges we face in the future with our commitment to the world, for example. in Afghanistan. We probably have to be there for years to come. This is a big part of our defense. These tasks also require predictability with regard, inter alia, to: the personnel who are to serve there.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1892	This has been an interesting and timely debate. I would like to thank the interpellant for putting this on track, so that we could put forward some points of view and moments here in the hall. I think it's exciting thoughts, especially from the Council of State, because she might signal another way to forward the defense. It's quite timely, really, and many of us have thought about this. I expect the Council of State to come back to Stortinget with more concrete plans about this at a later stage. The problem is that we're now finishing a long-term proposition period, to call it that, and immediately we're going into a new one, i.e. that we at least theoretically operate and end the implementation of this long-term proposition. And then we're going to start immediately into a new long-term proposition, and then we're going to start implementing it. In a way, this is becoming a little unclear and certainly very difficult for the defence and defence personnel to deal with. It creates uncertainty, as has been said here, and, of course, it affects the defence to a great extent. We know that. We still hear that they're insecure, they don't know where to go. Unfortunately, many of the people we want to keep stop -- they end because of uncertainty and because of what has been mentioned; they establish families, buy houses and stuff like that. The uncertainty is so great because the perspective is so short. Finally, like the representative Sahl, I just want to express disappointment at the fact that the opposition has not been more allowed to participate, at least in the final phase, and express what we think about the upcoming proposition. I understand that the Council of State needs to do what she does, and will end this. But on the other hand, I think that to make a deal, it would have been an advantage that the opposition was allowed to join in and give views and thus give the government some idea that by doing a little bit of things we might be able to make a deal. The problem is that we're now getting something served, it's just being put on the table. We kind of feel, today at least, that this is going to be a take it or leave it, and there's no good situation. In the end, the representative eye said that the same procedure was used before, so it was kind of nothing better, it was. I don't think that's a good comparison, because if something's done bad before, we don't have to keep doing it. I think the government could take this signal, as it has received many times, especially in the last. An overall opposition is very disappointed that, as I said, we are not allowed to join in and say a little bit of a little bit in this phase, so that we could more easily settle in retrospect.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1907	I would like to thank both the Minister and the other representatives who have taken part in the debate. The Christian People's Party's intention with this was to get some views on how to plan for the Defence in the future. I think we have received a good answer to that, and there has been a unanimous wish among those who have spoken here, that, when you look forward to the defence, you make plans that will last longer than four years. Then it's exciting to see what's going on about it when the long-term plan is presented. At the same time, the opposition parties, from both the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, express disappointment at the dilemma that we believe will arise when the plan is presented. We see that the Center Party has been out in a very good time and made its point of view. SV has also been out saying a little about what they think should be a priority. The working party has not done so. It suggests that there may be a tearing debate within the Government on how this should look. And as I emphasized instead, it is possible that it will go, but from the Christian People's Party we have no faith that it can be put into play again when it comes to the staging room. So until what Signe Eye had in mind, this has been a tradition. No, it hasn't been a tradition, because minority governments have to make in-hand contact to have a certain level of certainty to get through. In the previous round, the parties at Stortinget were contacted by hand before submitting the notification. The big difference is that now no contact has been made with the opposition on what is to be provided. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we would like to stress that it is in line with a part of what we have experienced over time, that with a majority government, the Stortinget becomes less interesting for debates, because one has to accept to a large extent what a majority has negotiated and the compromise. You can see that, but you could have opened up a dialogue with the opposition more in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1918	I think I have to remind you a little bit about the process of this long-term plan. It's true, as they say, that we're based on a defense study that's known to everyone, that came in the month of October/November, and that it's free for everyone to read and sit in. We also rely to a large extent on a choice of defence policy that the Government has set up and that has representatives from all the parties on the Stortinget, which I believe has also had good dialogue with its representatives on the Stortinget. In addition, we have established a dedicated website, defence dialogue.no, where we have gained views from organisations, individuals and municipalities, which have also provided the basis for this. We have had joint meetings with all the rapporteurs who have been affected by the plans mentioned in the defence study. And if the rapporteurs or local politicians have asked for a meeting with me, I have never said no. I have taken a meeting with each one, regardless of the lot colour they may have, and regardless of what views they might have to make. That's what I think has been important, because I know this affects a lot of people. It affects many individuals, and it affects many communities. When I then really put myself in jail for having a broad process, it becomes a bit strange to get this criticism, that the opposition should be contacted before the matter was resolved by the Council of State and the Government. It would have been to do something completely new. And with all due respect, I would really like to ask for an understanding that we have taken the time for the necessary proceedings in a very complicated and very comprehensive case. Then I want to raise one more point, because I very much agree with some of what Width said about the work on a new defense study. We've been working on a new defense study for the last period while we've been working on launching the old one, which can lead to the wrong focus in relation to the implementation of the old one and the creation of the new one. Finally, a response to the representative Bredvold - just to underline: it is not that I have addressed this in order to avoid focusing on conversion, because it has been absolutely necessary in the defense. I'm going to say that even though the defense is much smaller than a few years ago, today we have a much better defense than what we had a few years ago. So the whole focus here has to be on maintaining long-term objectives while having the ability to adjust when necessary, and constantly focusing on the development of the defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1931	Case No. So 7 is done. The scheduled time for the morning meeting is late. The President proposes that the meeting be extended so that we can vote now. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1939	The increase shall now be added to the case No. 2-5.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1947	During the debate, Mr Kjønaas Kjos presented two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to take the initiative to establish day-to-day services with vocational rehabilitation, in line with the model of the PIA project, on a national basis. The government is asking for proposals on how this can be organised, as well as economic impacts, both in labour market policy and in relation to the dynamic effects of increased return to work.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government in the context of the 2009 State Budget to establish its own project entry to finance pilot projects on a model from the PIA, and to return to the Stortinget with a description of how projects on a model from the PIA can be established on a national basis.’ These proposals will be replaced by the Committee's voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e1981	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 2, from André N. Skelstad on behalf of the Left First, there will be a vote on proposal No. Two, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up a national centre of expertise with chemical damage and research as its main concern.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e2005	There will then be a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party, Right. Christian People's Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to take the necessary measures to ensure that the Labour Inspectorate assumes responsibility for civil aviation oversight in respect of HMS issues in their entirety.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e2064	In Case No: 6 and 7 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26.ana.ud1941e2243	Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
