ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e43	The representative Torbjørn Andersen, who has been on leave, has again taken the seat. A number of permit applications are available: from the representatives of Laila Davay and Kari Lise Holmberg on leave from 2 June to 5 June, and from the representative of Odd Einar Dørum on leave from 3 June to 5 June, all to participate in the 54th session of the 54th session of the Central European Union Group of the Central Party on leave of the representative of Per Olaf Lundtägen from 2 June to 5 June, to participate in the Food Organisation of the United Nations, FAOs, High Level Conference on Food Safety, etc. in Rome, by Trine Skei Grande on leave from 2 June to 6 June, to take part in the Wilton Park Conference in Tbilisi, from the representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo on sick leave from 2 June onwards and until further notice from the Workers' Party Group on sick leave for the representative Torfin Opheim from 2 June onwards and until further notice from the Group of the Progressive Party on maternity leave for the representative Tord Lien from 2 June to 6 June, from the representative Anne Margrethe Larsen on welfare leave from 2 June to 7 June, from the representative Heikki Holmås on study leave from 2 June to 13 June. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. - It is deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of Oslo, Ingunn Gjerstad, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget under the authority of the representative Heikki Holmås, for welfare reasons. From the first alternate of the South-Trøndelag County, Hanne Dyveke Søttar, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget under the representative Tord Lien's leave on Friday 6 June, for welfare reasons. These applications are also proposed for immediate and granted treatment. - It is deemed to have been adopted. Other alternates of Oslo, Olaf Thommessen, are prevented from meeting in Stortinget on Thursday 5 June under the representative Trine Skei Grandes leave, due to foreign residence. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For the West Agder County: Knud Edmund BerthelsenFor the Busherud County: Hilde GroenhovdFor the Finnmark County: Kirsti SaxiFor the Hordaland County: Knut Arild HareideFor Oslo: Morten Dregni, Alvhild Hedstein, Olaf Thommessen and Audun RødningsbyFor the Rogaland County: Unn Therese O. SørensenFor the Telemark County: Torbjørn Røe IsaksenFor the South Trondelag County: Hanne Dyveke Søttar and Torstein Larsen. Knud Edmund Berthelsen and Torbjørn Røe Isaksen are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet the representatives Anne Margrethe Larsen and Kari Lise Holmberg respectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e179	Knud Edmund Berthelsen, Hilde Groenhovd, Kirsti Saxi, Morten Dregni, Alvhild Hedstein, Unn Therese O. Sørensen, Torbjørn Røe Isaacsen and Hanne Dyveke Sweets are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e185	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings today and tomorrow - and consider it adopted. The President will propose Gunn Olsen and Marit Nybakk. Other proposals are not available, and Gunn Olsen and Marit Nybakk are unanimously elected as chairmen of today's and tomorrow's meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e206	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each lot and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines following the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e215	The matter we are dealing with today is a so-called collective proposition from the Government. Today we are dealing with six dossiers and two railway cases. As you know, one of the road items in the proposition has already been dealt with, namely the Hook Island compound. Point 2.1 of the case, the evaluation of the reporting system in the State Road Service, the Committee has decided that we need some more time, and hopefully we will deal with it before the holiday. The issues presented by the Committee today are those which have been pending, either because of an unexplained tolling system or because of an unexplained estimate of costs. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Progress Party, broadly adheres to the Ministry's assessments and recommendations in each project. So a little bit to the individual things. The Haugaland package consists of many individual projects where the cost estimates are relatively uncertain and the Ministry recommends that the package be considered as a financing plan, with the scope of the development being adapted to the framework of the package. The Ministry has therefore recommended that it is not whether the total cost of the package is more than 500 million. kr, which is essential for the implementation of the KS2 but for any cost excess on individual projects to have an impact on other lower priority projects within the package. The majority of the Committee agrees and seems to have chosen a rational and flexible solution here. For my part, I have to add that I think this principle should be based on all packages where there is local agreement to rather adapt the package along the way to the financing potential. After all, when KS2 was introduced in its time, it was just to make sure that there was no error in the cost development of individual projects over 500 million. kr as such. The majority of the Committee is also pleased that Karmøy has now been included in the package and that the principles to be used have now been agreed with the municipality of Rogaland and the municipality. It's fast in Rogaland. I read in the local newspaper this weekend that already today the car passes are put out for sale, assuming that the Stortinget deals with the matter and makes a positive decision. The Right Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party also continue to believe that a political governing group must have a political specific secretariat. So a little bit about the Haukeli tunnels on E134. The majority view of the Committee is that it is good that, with the appropriations now proposed in the revised national budget, we see the finalisation of this project. It has taken time, but the work is very dependent on weather and driving conditions for alternative bypasses. With regard to the tolling scheme in West Agder, the Committee supports the Ministry's continuation of the tolling scheme but encourages the Ministry to present the case in the autumn of 2008 so that there will be no undue delay between the projects. Otherwise, I refer to what I said about toll packages earlier. For the upgrade work on rv. 658 The Ellingsøy and Valderøy tunnels also support the majority of the department of the Committee, but find it unfortunate that tunnel work has experienced a massive increase in costs due to the total closure of the tunnels, and thus considerable additional costs incurred in terms of the restoration and upgrading of old ferries, the creation of ferries and operation, and in addition to the loss of the toll company. The Committee has therefore asked the Ministry for the future to engage in dialogue with the Labour Inspectorate in order to try to find solutions to avoid the closure of subsea tunnels by upgrading and servicing. The Committee supports the redemption of the properties at Møllenberg in Trondheim and its financing facility. The members of the Committee from the Left, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Advance Party consider it an important principle that the revenue from the resale of these dwellings is allocated to the project and does not go straight into the state treasury. As regards the two railway projects in the case, which are double-track Sandnes-Stavanger and remote control Mosjøen-Bodø, the Committee notes that overall they have increased the cost framework by nearly 500 million. kr. Furthermore, contracts of the order of 317 million have already been concluded. kr before the case has been submitted to the Stortinget, but then “retained” about the approval of the Stortinget. In addition, there is uncertainty related to the Mercury securing plant, which contributes to a high level of job uncertainty. A minority in the Committee of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left Party and the Advance Party believe that the procedure it has been set up is unusual, but the members assume that the Stortinget is kept constantly informed about the development of the case, and that the Stortinget must get the case back if you are able to stay within Scenario 1 so that the funds can be reallocated to other projects. As regards progress and cost estimates in general in railway projects, the minority in the Committee will refer to the Railway Agency's own opinions in the evening post on 28 April of this year, where they themselves claimed that a more rational approach to Lysaker-Asker expansion, with overall project management and not many small projects, would save the project for at least DKK 1.5 billion. The right supports this and recommends that this should be pursued in the future. I didn't see any bells, but I think the post was customized for 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e255	That was absolutely exemplary!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e258	I would like to mention a few of the issues presented to the Storting in the form of this aggregate proposition. First, I would like to say that it is gratifying that the work on expanding the Haukeli tunnels on the E134 is now going to the end. The higher tunnels improve the conditions for commercial transport between the west and east on this very important road. Extension and securing of tunnels has cost more than intended. Now we hope that the result will be good, and that the road users, and especially the business community, get a solution they're satisfied with. Today, the Stortinget is also invited to endorse the continuation of the toll system in Kristiansand. The new package that local politicians want is primarily a soft package, with comprehensive and important measures. Kristiansand has shown a willingness to bet on the soft road users in the past, among others. through the so-called bus metro in the southern village. The development of a coherent walking and cycling network in Kristiansand, which is now a priority, is exemplary. There has been some up and downgrading of the so-called Ålesundstunnels, the subsea connection to Ellingsøya and Valderøya in Ålesund and Gian municipalities. It is good that the work is now finally going on, and especially the fire safety. This case shows that it is important that road authorities have good dialogue with the Labour Inspectorate in connection with such work. In this case, there is a lot of evidence to suggest that better dialogue could have given prior implementation of the work. At the same time, it is good that a solution has now been found to ensure that the health and safety of workers is properly taken into account. And then I hope that the solution is seen as acceptable also to the residents and the many travelers to and from the airport at Vigra. The Ministry briefs on the proposal if necessary for 40 million. DKK for the redemption of dwellings at Møllenberg in Trondheim in connection with the expansion of E6 Trondheim-Stjørdal. The redemption shall be financed by tolls required for the project. The redemption of the dwellings concerned is part of the project cost and the cost is characterised by its early occurrence in the project. For those affected by an extension project, such as the inhabitants of Møllenberg in Trondheim, it is very important that the developer takes responsibility. People who live in a planned road or railway corridor have no chance of converting their housing in the usual way. A planned expansion strongly intervenes in people's lives and freedoms and can have major economic consequences. Therefore, it is good that the Government takes responsibility for the difficult situation of the 74 housing owners at Møllenberg in Trondheim who are being affected, according to the proposition. It is also an expression of our sense of responsibility for the individual when the Government of the revised national budget announces new guidelines for the redemption of dwellings in the 2009 government budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e275	The staging proposition deals with a number of issues. The Progress Party therefore has a number of proposals, and I would like to address these. I particularly point out that our proposal No. 2, which concerns the Haugalands package, is an alternative to the proposal for a decision of the amendment in two points on, inter alia, Same package. I will mention some of the issues. First a few words about the Haukeli tunnels on E134. As the rapporteur correctly pointed out, this is a matter which is beginning to get reasonably old in the context of big business. It's actually more than three years since the Storting treated Innst. S. No 150 for 2004-2005. Questions have been asked to the department in this matter, and I would like to point out in particular some of the answers that have come. I quote: ‘Although the Ministry of Transport understands the desire to carry out a more extensive rehabilitation of the tunnels, the Department considered that the State Road Administration went too far in relation to the Storting decision of 4 April 2005. The Ministry of Transport could therefore not approve such an increase in costs in relation to the estimated financial framework for the works and the bidding process was cancelled.» So there are no road and road conditions on the Haukeli link that have taken more than three years. It's actually the state road service's own treatment of the project -- which has been very special, to say it in careful order -- that makes us spend a very long time and a lot of money. I quote: ‘As a general rule, the planning and design of a project shall be carried out to the extent that there is a cost estimate for which the uncertainty is within an accuracy of +/- 10 per cent when the project is submitted to the Stortinget. This was not the case when the estimate was about 200 million. kr for the repair of the Haukeli tunnels was submitted to Stortinget through St.prp. [[2005-2006]] No Add And on the other hand, ‘In retrospect, it is therefore easy to see that the basis for taking up the project for allocation was not satisfactory. Both the State Road Administration and the Ministry of Transport regard this matter as a special case.» We hope so. We hope that it will be with this special case, and that we will not again experience in any way that the road offices, when they are planning or announcing tenders for a project that the Storting has approved, accept the right that they are adding completely different things to the project than what was intended. A little bit about the Haugaland package: we have noticed that the expansion costs almost $1 billion, 920 million. So it's going to be $750 million. kr is paid via tolls. Of the total costs and funding in 2008 krone, the toll share has now become 70 pst. In addition to a total net toll contribution of 1 940 million. $80 million. DKK in the cost of building toll stations and purchasing car passes and 400 million. SEK for the operation of the toll company for 15 years. So the total number of drivers is going to have to pay $2,420 million. NOK, almost NOK 2.5 billion, to cover a net contribution of almost NOK 2 billion. So the cost of financing is almost 25 pst. of net toll contributions. In other cases, it would probably be called regret. I should also like to mention, in summary, other proposals. Where toll systems are introduced and provided on advance or extended toll systems, the Progress Party considers that the State should either advance or finance directly. I would also like to point out our proposal No. 8, on the organisation of the Railway Agency as a State Company, and our proposal No. 7, on the organisation of a state road haulage company. Both proposals form part of the efforts of the Progress Party to bring about a modernised and forward-looking transport policy, which we will also come back to in a later case.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e306	The representative Arne Sortevik has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e309	The rapporteur has carried out a thorough review of the content of the joint proposal, and the Christian People's Party fully supports the presentation. That's why there'll be just a few short comments as well. The Christian People's Party is pleased that we now have a clarification on the Haugalands package. We stress the importance of the fact that only individual projects in the package have a cost framework of more than 500 million. kr, you have to have KS2. The Christian People's Party is committed to implementing this as a principle for future transport packages. The Christian People's Party further supports the extension of the existing toll regime in Kristiansand, but we also believe here that it is the overall funding of the project that determines the phase-in of the individual projects. We therefore believe that in this package it is only the individual projects that exceed 500 million. kr, which shall have KS2 and not the whole package. Then, in line with another matter we are going to deal with today, I would like to stress the importance of starting the redemption of dwellings at Møllenberg in Trondheim as soon as possible. Delays in the planned road projects must not create unnecessary problems for the residents who have been informed that their house will be redeemed. We therefore support the notified withdrawal of tolls from the existing E6 collection scheme for the redemption of these dwellings. Finally, I am very concerned that the remote control of the Nordlandsbanen is completed as soon as possible. The Christian People's Party will ask that one do everything possible to avoid postponement. In the view of the Christian People's Party, it must also be possible to substantiate the approval of the Mercury plant.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e322	In this roll-out initiative, proposals have been made for measures to promote several important transport projects and measures, including: Haugaland package and repair of the tunnels at E134 over Haukelifjellet. It's one of the names of Kurt Narvesen who has said, "You're not looking for the tasks, it's those who are looking for you. Don't make it too difficult for them. As a politician, I see that this applies to the department and to the accumulation as well. We are content to grasp the tasks that are looking for us. Fortunately, I believe that most of us are inclined to do so. The centre party is satisfied that the majority is in favour of the progress proposed in the various cases that together constitute the pooling proposition. We notice that also the municipality of Karmøy has now entered the Haugaland package, which suggests that the project becomes even more important to the region. The E134 haukeli tunnels need to be repaired, but I would like to point out that this distance can be even better if, in the longer term, new tunnels across the Haukelijellet can reduce altitude and narrow length. At least there are interesting plans for this. When it comes to upgrading the Ålesund tunnels, it's a sad thing. The revised estimate of costs is 430 million. kr, far above what was originally foreseen. The demands of the Labour Inspectorate to close the tunnels during the work have not only resulted in the postponement of this project, but unfortunately also indirectly push the repair of the Freifjord tunnel out of time. I hope it's possible to find a solution to the latter tunnel, because it's to the detriment of both residents and businesses in the district when the salt water leaks into a long and dark tunnel, as it does now. It is now said that the Labour Inspectorate should place life and health in the high seat. However, those who administer the work environment laws may at times assess the relevance of life and health from a comparison with 8-16 jobs in a screened office. Society cannot function on such a principle. Finally, a few words about the E6 between Stjørdal and Trondheim, where it has been a challenge to get funds to redeem tied dwellings. With the proposed solution proposal it shall be possible to implement it, but together with the other two government parties, the central party will align itself with the fact that the consideration of the inhabitants must form the basis of the chosen procedure. We will also show that there is currently a work on new guidelines for the redemption of housing, and that the government has announced that they will come back with a case on this in connection with the 2009 government budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e339	St. pp. No 45 addresses different issues such as road and rail. I am pleased that the majority in the Committee agrees with the proposals in the proposal. The proposal provides for the status of work on the E134 Haukeli tunnels in Telemark and Hordaland. It is now important to finalise the work to be done on this important cross-country crossing between the Austland and the West. I understand that the delays have led to frustration for many. It has been shown that it is difficult in advance to estimate the extent of this type of work, and weather conditions have also created difficulties for progress. In the remaining work, a strong emphasis must be placed on making a smooth rerun, signage, etc., so that it is better than in 2007. Work on upgrading the tunnels between Ålesund and Ellingsøy and between Ellingsøy and Valderøy on Rv. 658 in More and Romesdal stopped in December 2006. At that time, the Labour Inspectorate decided that work could not be done at the same time as the tunnels were open to normal traffic. On this basis, a new work plan has been developed to carry out the upgrade as evening and night work with connected tunnels and a ferry service between Ålesund and Valderøy during the closing period. This has led to a sharp increase in costs. The estimated cost of the revised project is now 430 million. 2008-kronor. A ferry service between Ålesund and Valderøy must be established. It is expected that the ferry link will be ready for operation during September 2008. Work on upgrading the tunnels can start at the earliest opportunity in October 2008, once the ferry connection is established. It has been assumed that the upgrade will be completed in 2009. I would like to follow up the Committee's call for us to try, through dialogue with the Labour Inspectorate, to find out arrangements where it is not necessary to close subsea tunnels even if the upgrade is necessary. On 14 June last year, the Stortinget Haugalandspaket adopted without projects and actions in the municipality of Karmøy. The expansion of the package, which is now being managed, is important in developing a more environmentally friendly, efficient and secure transport system in Haugaland. I am pleased that the Committee, with the exception of the representatives of the Party for Progress, joins in the submission. Even if the toll package is finally expanded in line with the original intentions, the package "only" is a financing plan. Work on priority actions and projects to achieve the objectives set out in the two proposals, in the sub-plan and in the transport plan for Haugaland is particularly important. Here, there are already established bodies that make key contributions to the annual budget priorities, and these bodies are now being expanded by representatives from the municipality of Karmøy. I have noticed that some of the opposition parties insist that the political steering group should have an own secretariat - i.e. a secretariat without ties to the State Road Service and the administrative group that coordinates the local interests. In practice, I cannot help but understand that this will give local politicians poorer intentions to make good decisions, thus reducing the local impact on actual priorities. This is definitely not in line with the government's policy, and I'm glad that the majority in the committee is holding on to the scheme that was endorsed by the Stortinge's handling of the first part of the Haugaland package last summer. The question of KS2 has been raised both in connection with the Haugaland package and the toll scheme in Kristiansand. The members of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left believe that KS2 should only be launched where the individual projects in the package have a cost framework of over 500 million. kr. I have, in response to the committee, clarified the position of the department. In this case, KS2 may be required to be triggered even if the individual project does not have a cost of more than 500 million. kr. This will be the case if there are strong boundaries between the projects, as is often the case in urban packages. It also has a bearing on the financial coherence of the projects through the tolling mechanism. The quality assurance will then include not only the cost side but also the traffic and income page, which is of course entirely decisive in a toll package. So I think it's right to stick to the general rule that toll packages with a total cost of more than 500 million. kr shall be passed through an extended KS2, which has also joined the multiple. And then that might be the case where there's been an exception, as it's done for the Haugalands package. As stated in the Proposition, the work on double-track development of Sandnes-Stavanger and the development of remote control between Lake Mosjön and Bodø on the Nordlandsbana is in full swing with a view to keeping planned progress within the new cost framework of the two projects. As stated in the proposition, there is little certainty about the progress and the cost estimates presented by the Railway Agency regarding the approval of the new Merkur securing facility, which is part of both projects. Due to the fact that there is a new type of restraint system, it has to be approved by the State Railway Authority. Based on the feedback received by the Ministry from the Railway Agency, the Railway Agency still expects that the planned progress can be maintained and that the projects can be completed within the new cost frameworks indicated in the proposal. For the double-track Sandnes-Stavanger, this means that scenario 1 is still in debt. I will follow the further approval process of Merkur and come back with a briefing on the Storting in the 2009 budget proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e367	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e371	I want back to the E134 and the Haukeli tunnels. Is the government council satisfied with the management of this project by the state road authorities? I remember the background a little bit more than what I got in my post. The background is a Document No. 8-proposals submitted in 2004 by representatives of three parties, the Progress Party, the Labour Party and the Centre Party, addressing issues related to the limitation of altitude for this important East-West link. It was a comprehensive treatment in the Stortinget in 2005. It was two hearings before the Stortinget made its decision. Is the Council satisfied with the way the State Road Administration has dealt with this matter? If the answer is no, can the Council of State assure you that you are taking action, so that you do not again risk a treatment where the State Road Service places other elements in the matter than the Stortinge case provided?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e378	The recovery of the Haukeli tunnels is complex. What happened when one was going to assess the work was that one saw that the electrical system in several of the tunnels was old and mature for replacement. And then one thought that it was not inconvenient to disassemble and then reassemble the old equipment - in itself a relevant and factual reason why the work was more extensive. Yet, of course, it was not in line with the statements made by Stortinget. This was also the reason why work was stopped before costs were much higher than planned. I do not want to criticise the State Road Service, because I know that this was new work and complicated. But it is one thing that could have been better handled.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e387	I understand that the KS2 Institute has been practised in relation to toll packages based on the total cost of the package and not related to individual projects. In most toll packages where the financing potential is defined, the companies - and hence the municipalities and county councils - which are behind the packages understand that the financing potential provides a framework for the final content of the packages. In several cases, the Council of State has shown a practical approach to raising issues, for example, today. The Haugaland package and the KS2 assessments there. Can the Council of State say something more about what it is that makes her find a smooth solution in the Haugaland package, and where this is essentially different from other packages?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e394	The Haugaland package consists essentially of a series of modest-size projects. The different projects have come in different ways in planning. In the case of KS2, it is normally required that adopted regulatory plans be included in the project before implementing KS2. It is therefore decided, after an overall assessment - together with the Ministry of Finance - that one can provide exemptions from the KS2 for the Haugalandspaket. The Kristiansand package is of a slightly different character. The project is larger, and you can also find that the interface between the projects is larger than the Haugalands package. These are actually the two main reasons why a person has assessed the packages differently, and as they have seen, they have given different handling.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e401	The progress in the development of the double track between Sandnes and Stavanger and the development of remote control between the lake and Bodø depends on our approval of the new Merkur securing plant. By reading the proposition, it is difficult -- because this is a new system -- to find out whether we can get into a situation where the railway system concludes that the system is not good enough, and that we need to restart the process. Or is it just that one is en route in a process that is likely to end up with approval? It would be very unfortunate if we ended up with a system that is not approved and the projects are being postponed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e408	Mercury is, as the representative says, a new system and thus requires the approval of the Railway Surveillance Authority. As the approval of Mercury in Norway will also imply approval for other countries - as is the system in the EEA area - it is clear that this is a demanding and complex work technically, but also demanding by accepting the full approval of a larger area. I have not been given a warning that a non-approved system has been set up. It's time, because in the technical trials you've had -- maybe it's best to say it this way -- there have been some complications. The last signal I got is still positive. In meeting with the Railway Agency on another topic where this was also mentioned, I was given a clear impression that it is in a good way towards an approval. That is the goal - that it should become a reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e415	It almost sounds sweet and touching when representatives say that these are the local initiatives followed up by the Government, and that the Government takes responsibility. I don't think it's taking special responsibility when you tell the drivers to spend almost NOK 2.5 billion to get back NOK 1.9 billion. The challenge to the Council of State is: Wouldn't it have been better to look at other solutions to avoid spending a lot of money on financing these toll projects and providing full government funding? Or you can, for example, Do what you've done with the Kvisvik road, where you're shooting, and you get the money back after a while, just to bring down some of the costs that you see is completely unreasonable, and that makes you spend a lot of money that doesn't go back to the purpose you should actually spend the money for, that is, building a road and getting infrastructure built in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e420	It is now time for local initiatives to follow up on toll projects. The representative Hoksrud knows that, and the council and everyone else knows that. Last week I was in Leipzig at a major world congress on transport and climate, and as the only state council of 54, I was invited to sit in a panel of leaders from the world's car manufacturers, aircraft manufacturers, producers of energy and oil. That was interesting. The reason why I was invited was that Norway has a system, and has had it for a long time, with tolls like the rest of Europe and, in fact, the rest of the world seem to be particularly successful, in a combination of being built out at the same time as one has -- something a world over, not just in Europe, looking for -- a system to do it in a cost-effective way that didn't put the rest of the economy at risk. So the system that the Progress Party is so opposed here, one actually looks very positive at from other parts of the world around us.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e427	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 3478]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e445	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each lot and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of up to 5 lines after the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e454	This is a proposal from Arne Sortevik, Per Sandberg and Bård Hoksrud on the modernisation of Norwegian transport policy. The majority of the Committee refers to the letter from the Ministry of Transport of the Council of State, which states that there are a number of fees and charges that burden maritime transport and that these affect the transport sector as a whole. The majority are concerned with increasing road safety and reducing greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector and believe that more goods should be carried by sea and rail. The majority are in attendance for a comprehensive review of all fees and charges in maritime transport, and this is seen in the context of the 2009 state budget and the 2010-2019 national transport plan rollover and the aim of getting more goods across by sea and by rail. The majority also refers to the treatment of St.meld. No 34 for 2006-2007 Norwegian climate policy and the grossing-up majority's comments in the Netherlands. S. No 145 for 2007-2008, that the climate target is important in the work of the national transport plan and that the strengthening of the rail system should continue, especially in population-based areas and in regions with a high level of freight transport, and asks the Government to follow this up in the work of the national transport plan. The majority have also noted that the response letter from the Council of State states that the announced strategy for Norwegian aviation will be publicly available and will in particular serve as a response to the National Transport Plan 2010-2019. The strategy will also be able to provide input to the next Avinor owner message. The recordings from the transport modes and Avinor AS to NTP have been at the hearing in a number of instances, including: counties, urban areas and user and stakeholder organisations. The aim of the NTP is to present a comprehensive and comprehensive discussion of the various aspects of transport policy, including balances relating to investment and operations and maintenance, in order to best achieve transport policy objectives. Follow-up to the NTP is carried out over the annual budgets and specific proposals to the Stortinget. The representatives of the Progress Party, representing the minority in this position, will certainly explain the background to this proposal for a representative and include the seven proposals in the vote. Finally, I would like to address the proposal from the Left. The background to this proposal is the desire of the current government, in line with the Bondevik II Government, to present a big message focusing on better public transport. The Bondevik II government presented a major communication on better public transport in 2001–2002, in which many long-term and good ideas were launched. In the wake of the climate agreement on Stortinget and the environmental challenges we face, I am disappointed that no longer sees the need for a follow-up to the previous collective communication, which was the first of its kind. When I look at the setting from then on, Innst. S. No 228 for 2001-2002, there were 14 red-green proposals. That must mean that this was an important message, which was taken seriously, so why you do not follow up yourself when you have the opportunity, I do not understand. Most eagerly as proposers were SV, and I would recommend to the representative of SV a review of the proposals from then on. With this I take up proposal No. 8 from the left. If this proposal against presumption is put to a vote, the Left subsidiary supports proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e476	The representative Borghild Tende has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e479	The case spokesperson has done some good for the plural comments and the setting in which the Workers' Party is involved. I want to focus on the fact that during the spring the Progress Party has a number of representative proposals. There is probably a crude tactic to produce their own policies, but also little to irritate the position's representatives around the whole country and perhaps put many of the position's representatives in disrepute. For the Progress Party, it is so well known that at least the Labour Party’s position representatives cannot participate in individual decisions here in the Stortinget and allow billions of road projects around, without looking at them in conjunction with the annual budgets and with the national transport plan. But it is used raw against us that this has been proposed by the Progress Party, and we have then voted against. To illustrate: there was a big action now on Saturday when a lady went to the brink to get a better E6 through the Gudbrand valley. It was a conference on Friday, and one was actually standing by from Lillehammer in the south to Lom in the north. I ran between them to try to back them up. Of course, they were held responsible, and when they tried to explain to those who came, that it was not almost overnight to build the main road through the Gudbrand valley, that one had to see it in connection with the budget, the national transport plan, etc., it was cool impossible. Then it was pointed out to the Progression Party: they have suggested that the road should be built, but they have voted against it, so no, they are not trustworthy! So there's a raw tactic from the Progress Party that really knows how to meet us by dealing with these things in a responsible way. But then I've read the comments of the Progress Party. It's a lot of interesting reading. Now they actually refer to the climate debate and the impact on the transport sector of a climate-based environmental policy. A climate shake against which the Progress Party has argued to a large extent, they now find it opportunistic to use to change taxes and charges on the purchase and use of vehicles. Now, this is an admission that the climate noise is real, that the transport sector is responsible for 32 pst. of emissions and land transport one third of it? Is this kind of a trick to use to simply bring down the charges on cars? Is that the idea behind this, or is it a real realization that climate and emissions are a challenge? The Progress Party writes that aviation is ‘under attack from climate-based environmental policy’ - under attack from climate-based climate policy! Then they suggest -- at least Per Sandberg has done in the media -- to set down a series of airports around the country. They shall be replaced by road construction and road traffic. Has the Progress Party considered whether there is a significant environmental impact? Or is there any other reason behind it? And then I also see that the Progress Party is busy with a lot that's good, for example. node. They're actually busy making the railway a modern collective offer. They describe the importance of road and track around Oslo, ‘the efficient, safe and environmentally friendly transport solutions are obviously also beneficial to the national transport system’. The progress party cut so much on the railway in 2006 that the NSB said they had to shut down all the local trains in and around Oslo. So now they've turned around, because it's clear that there's now a lot more attention among people to bet on public transport and rail, and then they've come after. Then I say, "Kjempefint!" Welcome aboard! The party of progress has often said to us that they have our proponents in many areas, and then in the other parties we have come running after. Now it is very nice to see that the Progress Party comes after. I'm also in agreement with a lot of the things here, for example. focusing on effective financing of development. For all that, we're looking for everyone, either it's called project finance, OPS or whatever it is. There's a lot of ways to do it. In the submission to the National Transport Plan, the evaluators propose that when a project is taken up as a concession here in Stortinget, an allowance should be made for the amount needed to implement the project in a timely and effective manner. I don't have a principle counterpoint to OPS. But in a country like Norway, which has enough capital and a state that can borrow money cheaper than a private entrepreneur, I don't see the need for us to be content to organize it that way. Clearly, there are major challenges here. One sees that the three OPS projects bind future government budgets to approx. 600 million. DKK for 20 years to come. It is not just to cut your fingers to solve this. What separates the Progress Party from all of us is that they have money for everything between heaven and earth. That's our money. Per Sandberg stood here and said the politicians in the other parties are not brave enough! For all things, is it brave to say yes to all good purposes that people want? It should be much more courageous to show responsibility and say no to some things. My last question is, how in every day are they going to do this when they're going to cooperate with the Right, which actually thinks we have an excessive budget? They want to tighten in. It doesn't help to point out that there's money allocated to a road fund. It's just as if the money is in the Norwegian economy, as a right over the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e500	It was with interest that I listened to the article by a rather anxious representative from the Workers' Party, who tried in a well-known way to create a scare image of the Progress Party's transport policy, even though the representative Rudihagen took a little in again at the end and agreed to a relatively positive landing for him to be. He's a representative of a party and a government that likes to, but doesn't get it done. Norway needs a transport promise. Norwegian infrastructure is developing inversely with the growth of oil wealth: the nation is getting richer and the infrastructure - especially the road network - is getting worse. It is not just a paradox that Norway is politically unable to connect efficient, safe and environmentally friendly infrastructure to increasing wealth. There is also a sadly poor social economy when road capital matures, when the number of people killed and injured in traffic increases, and when poor infrastructure leads to high operating costs, high energy consumption and, yes, the representative Rudihagen, high greenhouse gas emissions. The Party considers that a journey promise is necessary and that it is fully possible. The Progress Party believes it is fully possible to build efficient, safe and environmentally friendly infrastructure on approximately. 20 years - without financing it with tolls, with reference to the previous case. The Progress Party believes that the modernisation of the infrastructure and the development of a modern coherent transport network require modernised transport policy. In the proposal we are discussing today, the Progress Party proposes measures to renew and modernise the transport policy. All other parties, and in addition, the Council of State, all refer, absolutely everything, to the rolling of the National Transport Plan 2010-2019 - sin, but not surprising. Especially in the case of government parties, it is not surprising that everything that tastes of renewal meets with scepticism and rejection. The Party of Progress has long pointed to the need to re-examine the use of national transport plans. The term ‘national 10-year plan’ provides for an unconditional connection of thought to Eastern European regimes that have been replaced for the longest time. The father of large planks is many. In particular, the main focus of the policy process at the end of treatment is on money for projects. Key policy areas can be easily ignored and important coordination actions can easily be ignored. I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote: Proposal No. 1: We would like to have a separate case about fees and charges in maritime transport. We believe that this is important in the strategy of transferring goods from road to sea. Proposal No. 2: We ask the Government to present its own case on taxes and charges in the transport sector. Proposal No. 3: The Progress Party asks the Government to present its own case on the strategy for Norwegian aviation. We have recorded the answer that a strategy paper is now being prepared. We find it natural that this is given in the form of a big message that comes to Stortinget as a matter of its own. Proposal No. 4: We ask for a separate case for national projects to develop transport nodes to ensure that the various modes of transport can work effectively together. Proposal No. 5: We want a separate case on the development of future collective solutions in the largest cities. At least it is interesting - and it is also positive - to record that the Left at least subsidiaryly agrees with the Progress Party in this field. Proposal No. 6: We ask for a case on own investment programmes for large national transport projects. Proposal No. 7: We ask for a separate case for the use of new funding solutions to ensure government financing of investments in the transport sector. None of these seven proposals have a concrete amount attached - with the address of the previous speakers. None of these proposals have concrete amounts - these are structural proposals, these are proposals to clarify, clarify and define a strategy in key areas on which we are to build a future transport policy. We have other proposals that relate specifically to the allocation, but not in this case, so also where the bomb previous speakers spoke.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e534	The representative Arne Sortevik has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e537	Right-wing support for the majority's views on this matter and believe that, at the threshold of work on NTP, where a single transport policy is at the heart of it, it is now unnatural to address such a comprehensive issue as is promoted in this proposal for a representative. If, for example, the Advance Party had a majority in favour of all these proposals, the ministry would be fully engaged in these extensive orders and not in the NTP work. With all due respect, also for the rich flora of the Advance Party of Document No. The 8 proposals and orders to the Department for the moment clearly show that they have not been responsible for the management of the Department itself. But this can change, and then the reality will seem something different, as we have also seen from other debutants in today's government - correction: debutant, president! The proposal by the Left, which is not so different from the proposal No. 5 from the Party of Advancement, on the public declaration, I will be able to comment. The right-hand collective message to Bondevik II was very good. Now we think it's follow-up that's important. I don't think we need a new collective message now, but rather incentives for urban areas to develop a public transport that is suitable for each urban area. That is why we cannot support any of the two proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e549	The proposal addresses a number of issues in the transport sector. We in the Christian People's Party agree that there is a need for a boost for transport in Norway. The sector suffers from a lack of resources and unpredictable framework conditions. The result is poor roads, failing collective services and start-ups that are not being completed. It affects both business and individuals. The Christian People's Party takes this seriously. It is necessary to increase the level of funding, and we need to look at the overall organisation and the optimal functioning of the system, taking into account the long-term and rational use of resources. As regards proposal No: 3, the Christian People's Party agrees with the proposers. We have previously pointed this out and asked for a separate case to Stortinget where the strategy for Norwegian aviation should be. The Soria Moria Declaration has contributed to the full coverage of the debate on Norwegian aviation. We record that there are various aviation debates going on locally, but the government's refusal to bring them to light is obvious. Avinor has asked to be briefed by the Committee on the difficult situation of the company, which further demonstrates the need for a notification of Norwegian aviation to the Stortinget. The government’s refusal may be the result of nothing but so much internal disagreement about aviation policy that it does not tolerate the light of day. But I can promise that we will come back strongly to aviation policy when dealing with the national transport plan. We don't see it realistic now to start the department with such a message. That is why we are not voting in favour of the proposal, even if we agree. As I pointed out, there are several positive elements and individual proposals in the document. Most of the time, however, is related to the treatment of the National Transport Plan by the Storting. The modernisation of Norwegian transport policy is important, but we are dealing with the ongoing process linked to the national transport plan. We will therefore come back to our proposals on how to modernise Norwegian transport policy in this context. For the same reason, we can't join in now to start the department with a new collective announcement. We just have to base what the Bondevik II government put forward, and then we get to take the debate on the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e558	In Document No: 8:80, representatives Sortevik, Sandberg and Hoksrud suggest that the Government should present its own cases during 2008 on major aspects of transport policy independently of – and in advance of – the Government’s submission of the National Transport Plan Report, NTP, 2010-2019. Norway is not the only country that, in order to achieve a sustainable transport policy, is presenting 10-year plans or other long-term plans on transport policy. Sweden presents its ten-year plan in September, England works in the same way - I have met my colleagues in the two countries recently - and I know that many other countries in Europe and otherwise do the same. It's about planning taking time, it's about running the whole country and seeing the priorities for the whole country coming together, and not doing as the Progress Party, which, with its absence of respect for local democracy and by loving regional political democracy, will highlight what they from here, with Oslo eyes, see as the most important projects to be realized, regardless of their relationship to regional growth and local development, and not least local decisions, which the Government is busy with following up. As both the three representatives from the Progress Party and the rest of the Committee are well aware, the Government is now working on the NTP big news. This is an extensive work, which applies to all aspects of transport policy. There has been a wide range of listening links to the basic material from the transport networks and Avinor AS, where almost 200 statements have been received from all over the country. I agree with the Minister for Fisheries and the Coast that the notification should be submitted by the end of 2008. The theme raised in the proposal for a representative is, in my opinion, naturally at home in a holistic and collective discussion in the national transport plan - not in part and divided as a matter of urgency beyond the fall. I am very pleased that a broad majority in the Committee supports this. On the basis of the national transport plan and the management of the message by the Stortinge, concrete cases will be brought before the Stortinge to decide through the annual budgets or by other appropriate means. This government will present a realistic national transport plan, which we will follow up, both through proposals for promises and in other ways, as we do with the existing national transport plan, as the first government. In this context, I do not want to go into a discussion about the individual proposals made by the minority, but look at the information given in a letter to the Committee on 18 April, which is attached to the vote. To Jan Sahl's verdict on the aviation policy and the alleged disagreement about it in the government, I would just like to say briefly that there is a strategy for Norwegian aviation that is being put forward by the Ministry of Transport on behalf of the Government before the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e575	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e579	By a council of states that characterises the use of local referendums as destructive to democracy, it is quite strong to be accused of having a lack of respect for local democracy. I took note of the closure of the Council of State letter, which is at the time of the vote, which states that ‘all the thematic areas included in the proposal are important for the future transport policy’. It is likely that the themes addressed in these seven proposals are being addressed in the context of the national transport plan. So this is not a question of double treatment, I think. But what distinguishes the solution of the Council of State and the other parties from the solution of the Progress Party is that we take out seven superfluous areas in our own matters - which are nevertheless subject to investigation and thorough processing from the department and the underlying trade unions - and treat them with particularly thorough light in the Stortinget, as a national tool for attaching the big national transport plan itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e586	One of the major challenges facing good transport years is to see transport sectors in context. It's developing node, it's developing intermodality, it's getting more transport from road to rail and across the sea. It is important, among other things, that we have a national transport plan that looks at the transport sectors in the context of which we also look at how we can connect the transport sectors in order to obtain efficient transport networks for both people and goods in this country. There are many other good reasons why we also need a national transport plan. It is not least that planning takes time, and prioritizing projects in an action plan will allow the etats to enter and plan projects in confidence that they are in a queue to be realized at the time they arrive. So the national transport plan can be made clear even better than today, but at least it is an instrument for achieving good and important priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e591	In the attitude of the Bondevik II Government on better public transport, a proposal was made by the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party. The suggestion sounds like: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to the Stortinget in connection with the 2003 State Budget with proposals to introduce a school and student discount of 50 pst. from 1 January 2003.» Now this government has been sitting for three years, and I expect this to be just as important when you're in government as when you're out of government. My question is, what is the status of this work after three years in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e601	School and student discounts are important. It is also important to obtain discounts that benefit everyone, and it has this government working on, both in the case of ferries, and in the case of better provision of trains, on buses and on other collective branches. This proposal is also a proposal that the Government is considering in the budgetary process, but I cannot say anything more about it today. But it's clear that it's as important now as then, and it's always a question that's being evaluated in budgetary terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e606	We in the Christian People's Party know that there will be a strategy plan drawn up by the majority government as a basic document for the national transport plan. But the Christian People's Party has called on us on several occasions and in several debates here that we need a debate on the future of Norwegian aviation, especially after the formulations contained in the Soria Moria Declaration. Now we see that it pops up suggestions around. It's about a new airport at Helgeland, it's about the postponement of the security measures around regional airports, and as I said, Avinor has come to the Stortinget to get information about the difficult economic situation they're in. It will not be enough if there is to be a government strategy plan as a basis for the treatment of the national transport plan, which is a guiding action plan. Why can we not have the opportunity to have a debate in Stortinget on Norwegian aviation?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e613	The staging is quite free at any time - either on the basis of interpellations or other recordings - to raise a debate in the Stortinget on Norwegian aviation. Of course, it can also be done in connection with the budget. The debate on Norwegian aviation will otherwise come as a result of the roll-out of the National Transport Plan, where, of course, aviation is an important part. In the same way that we close down what is on the agenda in this matter - many proposals that are, in isolation, okay and good, but which all belong to the national transport plan - we also close the big aviation discussion into the national transport plan, where he belongs. There is no doubt that there are major challenges in aviation in Norway - in a country that is so sparsely populated, but that has peoples spread over large areas, it says itself that there are challenges in coping with it in a good way. But the reasons are what they want to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e620	I record once again that the Council of State does not want to answer questions about this with local democracy - what is proper local democracy. I actually thought that if people themselves were allowed to vote in a referendum, it was proper, direct local democracy. But I record that the Council of State does not want to respond to this. The point of the proposal from the Progress Party is that we see that there are some important issues here, as when you come to the hot debate on the NTP, maybe not coming up and getting the big and wide discussion, because there are other things that become important, namely the struggle of the states to carry out the important transport projects they have, while there could be a broader discussion here. Does not the Council of State agree that it would make sense to have a much broader discussion about some of the important issues that lie here, which could then also be brought forward, without having the second discussion going on all the time?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e627	Point 1: I don't believe I've been asked any questions about local democracy. I'm very happy with the local democracy we have today. Both the Center Party and the Government are fortunately of the opinion that it should be respected. And the discussions we take will be in consultation with local democracy. We listen very carefully to both local and regional democracy, both of which make significant contributions to our policies. When it comes to point 2, the proposal that has been put on the table and discussed here today, I don't see a single point here that can't be discussed in national transport plans, in all the width that one might like. Then one in addition has a 200 hearing response from the local holder. One can also turn to all the municipalities, which once again have given their ears to the state, if one will go further into the living, vital, beautiful, amazing local democracy we have in the municipalities of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e634	Finally, when will the strategy paper that we are now told that we will be allowed to see, but not to discuss? Then I want to add a little comment on the way, because it's not that long since the Storting dealt with the news about Avinor. There was also the Progress Party out with modernisation proposals and forward-looking proposals, including: we asked for a new aviation plan, i.e. a short and well-defined strategy paper for Norwegian aviation. Then we were rejected by this council of states and by all the other parties. Now we record that in the meantime it was through the main budget - if I remember correctly - for the current year announced that a strategy paper was created for Norwegian aviation. We're happy with that. It's half a step in our direction, so it's a good move. When will that document come?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e641	Blackevik has one out of his mind. I am absolutely sure that Sortevik is thinking back to the turbulence of Avinor in the autumn of 2005, just after this Council of State had arrived in the chair. In the aftermath of the turbulence, it was decided in the winter of 2005/2006 that we should produce a strategy paper for Norwegian aviation. That it has taken time, has various reasons, including We have also had new rounds of unrest in aviation. But the document arrives in the summer, and I certainly believe that I have written about the same document in the reply to the Stortinget dated 18 April 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e646	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e650	I couldn't wait since the representative Rudihagen took the word and started a canonade. He tried in many ways to present it as if everything were so good with this red-green government. When he is unable to talk about his own policy, he must use his entire post to rake down on others because they allow themselves to make suggestions in this room. This committee has received 104 cases since we started this large-scale period, 41 of which are representative proposals. I don't think there's a lot of things going on, thinking that we've been on for three years. In addition, we know that a lot of government issues are toll issues. Here is a proposal for a major grip and modernisation of the entire Norwegian transport sector, with the challenges we are facing. What we're experiencing back is that there's going to be a discussion about the economy in this. In the proposals that lie here, there is nothing about economics. The proposals deal with structural interventions and how to do so in order to have a modern and forward-looking transport sector in the future in order to meet the challenges we will face. The ETA's core network investigation has also clearly shown that the area of transport is facing major challenges, and that it has built up an enormous aftermath that today's appropriations will take many decades to correct - if you don't take new steps both in organisation and in funding. It is therefore important to go through the whole transport sector and look at what we can do differently to meet the challenges of Norwegian transport in the future. This is why the Progress Party, among others. has made proposals to reorganise the various modes of transport in Norway. We want state companies that can borrow to ensure faster continuous and continuous development of desired railway and road projects. Unfortunately, this is rejected by the majority of the Storting. In addition to reorganizing the structures of the establishment, there are also other important issues that will reflect the developments we are now seeing and that we want to have in the future. The Party would point out that it is important to carry out a full review of all charges and charges in all modes of transport and would point in particular to the fact that maritime transport has experienced a sharp increase in its fees and charges in recent years. These increases are part of the new requirements and obligations of the authorities. All costs are passed on to maritime transport, and if the other modes of transport do not have it the same way, it will help to ensure that the objective of moving more of the goods across from road to sea and rail will not be achieved. The market is screaming for more capacity for rail freight and cooling, but the Government is overrun by charges that prevent the market from choosing the best mode of transport itself. The Progress Party therefore proposes to present a new proposal for fees and charges for maritime transport, based on the real costs associated with the mode of transport. All the proposals of the Progress Party in this matter will also lead to Norway being better equipped to meet the needs of the future in the field of transport, while also ensuring a strong modernisation of transport in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e663	Three quick things - first to the representative Rudihagen, who is now coming after me, who mentioned allegedly the proposal by Per Sandberg to lay down airports: what he forgot to include was that it was in connection with a proposal for a large-scale investment in the main road network over the next 20 years that Per Sandberg said something like that when we have a modern road network in place in 20 years, we can look at the structure of our aviation with slightly different eyes. Of course, that's not the same thing as saying that tomorrow we're going to go out and lay down specific and named airports. At best it must be a misunderstanding. So for this with double work and that everything is going to be dealt with in the plan: Yes, we are from previous rollings well known that everything - absolutely everything - is being dealt with in the plan. But the danger is that the important structural interventions, as I said in my first post, are drowning in the treatment related to money and projects, where we know there is a rope between parties, regions, parts of the country and different groups. We then believe that our solution is better -- to take the structural grips into their own affairs and treat them in parallel. They are nevertheless being investigated by those who can do this, both in the trade unions and in the departments. Finally, let me mention that we are not entirely alone in the view that NTP might be an insufficient tool. I could mention several examples, but should be careful with one - also as a little gesture to the Left, since we have them with us a little bit half-hearted in terms of public transport and a separate plan for it. I noticed Transport Forum No. 5 with reference to the researchers of the Transport Economic Institute, who say that NTP is incomplete as a national plan for public transport and that issues that are central are not addressed in the plan: ‘NTP is an insufficient tool to achieve the ambitious objectives of Norway in terms of public transport, they conclude’. We could move it over to other sectors and other areas - some of which we have pointed out in the proposals - namely that NTP is an insufficient tool to achieve the ambitious objectives we have in order to achieve a robust transport network in Norway, both for road transport, for air transport, for rail transport and also for maritime transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e677	I notice first that it is reasonably high below the ceiling when it concerns words and expressions in this room, when Arne Sortevik may owe me for being an anguish-bitter representative. To Bård Hoksrud - I've been attacked by the Progress Party's policy, without talking about my own policy: the Progress Party brings forward the one proposal for a representative after the other, and then they have to bear in mind that it is precisely their policy that is being discussed. That's why they put forward these proposals and make the policy visible to you. Then they have to bear in mind that we are commenting on what the Progress Party proposes. That's what I did in my post, at the same time as I said that here there's an interesting and good move in the policy of the Progress Party. When they now start talking about environmental policy, increasing the bet on collective action and not least on rail, I say welcome after. It is very good for Norwegian transport, the more there are who are united about such a policy direction. So to Arne Sortevik, when it comes to aerodrome closure: the misinterpretation must have itself, because what I did, when the Progress Party proposes to lay down so many airports and will replace it with road development, was to ask what significance it has for the environment. Has the Progress Party carried out any environmental impact assessment of building so many roads and getting car traffic instead of air transport in the regions of Norway? Questions were asked about the economy. Yes, of course there will be economic issues. That's where the Progress Party separates itself from everyone else. So they don't have the political courage to see things in a sanity, to dare say, no, we can't do this, because it's putting the country's economy over in control. Whenever they want to cooperate with the Right in the next period, there must be a real challenge, as the Right wants to tighten up the budget, while the Progress Party has always pointed to a fund of DKK 300 billion and that the returns from that fund will be used. In 1st place, 4 pst. return, there will be $12 billion a year. So it's going to finance all the road development and take away all the bomb roads in the country. In addition, it must be invested in rail, public transport, etc. Has the Progress Party at all calculated and analysed what all the proposals they make cost, and the consequences for the Norwegian economy? It is all about this policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e690	The idea was perhaps that we would have a discussion about Norwegian aviation and aviation policy, and get a case back to Stortinget. When the representative Rudihagen in his first post, and so far also in the follow-up to his second post, is very concerned with the policy of the Progress Party in this area, I would like to challenge the government parties. I'm recording that government representatives are very concerned about making it visible that they are going to reduce air traffic in Norway, whether you want to build high-speed trains or other things to reduce it. When we know that most of the airports in Norway already live on the cross-subsidisation system, where Gardermoen is the major contributor, which ensures that aviation is operated in large parts of the country just because of cross-subsidies, the big question is how it goes about the government's policy if you get a majority for the policy they say they want. The consequence will be that many of the airports will be shut down, unless you are willing to spend several hundred million dollars on annual government budget appropriations. When we see how small the will is now, it reaches 1 million. kr on the road and 1 million. I'm not sure if the wish and the will is necessarily the same when you get that far. But it's important to bear in mind that what Per Sandberg actually said was that we want to build a real tribal road network that makes the need to have all the airports maybe not there. That is when we have to look at the structure and the structure of the airport in Norway. Once we've built up a really good tribal road network, you'll see what structure you're going to have. Many lots, insofar as all lots except the Advance Party, are concerned with reducing air traffic. Right is engaged in building high-speed trains to reduce air traffic between Oslo and Bergen, which is one of the things that really finances air traffic in other parts of Norway. In fact, I think, with respect to reporting, you have to be honest in the discussions you have here about who does what, and the consequences of the policy you want to pursue - especially from the government parties, which are very concerned about reducing CO2 emissions from air traffic, and reducing the number of passengers on aircraft. That means that either the price gets much, much higher for those who are still going to drive, or the consequence is probably -- when there are no more customers -- that there are fewer airports.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e704	Arne Sortevik has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e707	Very briefly to the representative Rudihagen, who is concerned about the economic context of the Progress Party's policy: the Fund has brought with it the representative, it is quite right 300 billion kroner and an annual return. What the representative might have forgotten was that we also want a government loan scheme, which is also used in other countries. We will continue to have the annual budgets. They shall operate and maintain operations and shall also cover the repayment of government loans. So it is a coherent link in the economic foundation of a modern transport policy that invests money in infrastructure. In the long term, good roads last for 50 years, but we operate and treat annual road construction investment funds in Norway in battle with a number of annual expenditures. That often loses the long-term for the short-term. That's why we have to treat investment in infrastructure in a completely different way than looking at it as a cost.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e712	I asked for the word because the representative Sahl made a relatively large number that Avinor wanted to come to Stortinget to tell me about the major problems that the company is supposed to have financially. The fact is that Avinor came to the department and asked for a general briefing to the committee. They have done that before, I think I was with the committee and got an orientation - together with the representative Sahl - when I was the alternate for Jorunn Ringstad earlier, when Flesland was the director. Of course, the Ministry said yes to such an orientation. We think it is important that the committee is well informed, it is important that the company can come here, possibly invite the committee. As far as I know, the committee hasn't had time for that yet. But of course it's one thing that I don't put up with, the committee takes the time they want. I also said that there are challenges to aviation. It's clear that it is, but I think it's probably the Progress Party that spins things around pretty significantly on their heads, which they're used to doing with a lot of things. It is clear that what has been proposed by the Chair of the Committee and the Vice-Chairman of the Progress Party can be sounded provocative. But if I were to bid in Finnmark, I would have been quite concerned about missing my airport for a better tribal road, because when it comes to large parts of Norway, I'd almost call it the regional network of public transport, and that's not an option for many inhabitants. If one is to be able to get to and from the regional centre or the capital of the day meeting, it is the aeroplane that is the option. There's no contradiction between that and taking some of the growth we see in aviation, on the railroad. It's an expressed measure of this government that we should do it. Airports have been going well for many years, but in recent years we have had a staggering growth in aviation – mostly in foreign countries, but also in inland countries. And for those of us -- and that's the whole Biggest except for the Progress Party -- who want to do something about the climate change we see, and which we also see has huge cost implications not least for our transport network, it's of course important to find alternatives to air transport. But it is also important that air transport itself find new technologies, new ways to become more environmentally friendly. I thought what our company and Avinor are doing by developing green landings, by looking at new types of fuel, and not least what I heard at the world congress I was at, that the companies are now buying new aircraft with engines that use less energy, is brilliant.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e724	I didn't think I was going to help prolong the debate on this matter, but there was a whole new element in the debate that needs to be commented on. The representative Sortevik of the Progress Party usually runs a quite significant canonade against user-funded solutions, i.e. what we call more popular toll financing. Today we are told that instead of the loans that the toll companies raise, the state will raise loans. Yeah, who's going to borrow from the state? I also have to ask Sortevik if he has taken part in the only project in Norway where the state is making a loan. We only have one project where the government lends, and that's the Svinesund link. As far as I know, there are conditions that are far worse than for many other toll projects in Norway, because local municipalities, county councils and others provide guarantees that allow loans to financial institutions that are «invented» differently and perhaps as favourable as the state. In any case, the State of the Svinesund project has demonstrated both with the financing conditions and with the governance fees, which have been debated in the past in this case, that it is not necessarily such that if the State, which the Progress Party will make absolute use of in all contexts, solves these tasks, it will be so much better. I know that Sortevik does not have speaking time again, so we will probably have a chance to debate this matter since then.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e733	With 1 minute's speaking time and the two challenges you've now had, it's not that easy to deal with. But when the Council of State of the Chair here claims that the Advance Party wants to set down airports in Finnmark, I would like the Council of State to document where it says in the article that Per Sandberg has blacked out that it is going to lay down airports in Finnmark. You should be very careful to make such statements if you can't prove that it actually stands there, because it doesn't. The Progress Party has not proposed to shut down any airports in Finnmark. I hope that the Council of State will look closely at all the things that were said there, because the whole point is that first you have to build a proper tribal road network, and then afterwards you have to consider what structures we're going to have in 20-25 years, when we've built this tribal road network properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e742	I don't want to be drawn to income because I can't read. It is possible that I have read another article than the one Hoksrud referred to. For me, there is no point as to whether it applies to Finnmark, Helgeland or Sogn and Fjordane, and in Sogn and Fjordane, three out of four airports would probably be laid down. That's what I've read. But it's possible that we have read different articles here. It is, however, that when I run to Oslo today, it is 300 km, and I live at the very heart of Sognefjord. If I had bid in Florø or Målø, a supplement can add quite a few miles. Then it's not that easy to get to and from, at least at a day's meeting. Then it is actually planes that are the only way to travel, even though the road had been better than what he is between east and west today. My point is not whether it's in Finnmark or in another state, my point is that if I had bid in a district where there are as many distances as there are in parts of Norway, where there are corks of rail or other alternatives to the airport and the road, I would have been thinking about the Progress Party. But if you add it up with other, formerly, statements that I have in my archive, about each one of them wanting to build a road, I would have been even more concerned, because then one would probably have started the expansion where there are the most people, because there's the most cost-effective way to build it out. It's not where the small regional airports are. They're where there may not be so many people, but where there's great value creation, where it's important for the business people who are there, to get quickly to and from, not least to and from abroad, to their markets to do good business. So I wanted to think carefully about when it applies to that kind of signal, if I was bused, as I am, in a district where one has such an airport, because the alternative is unfortunately not good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e756	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3479]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e772	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each lot and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e781	The relinquishing of own homes and property in order to carry out the necessary transport projects is a heavy burden. Often it will be difficult to accept and understand why exactly one's own property is necessary to sacrifice in order to meet society's need for new solutions to transport. As if the burden of losing their own homes is not high enough, the practices of the authorities in bonding and redeeming dwellings often contribute to an inhumane burden for those affected. For years, families may experience that their properties are bonded without one penny in compensation, while property breeds in value and in practice becomes unsaleable. That is why the proposal in document No. 8:82, promoted by the representatives Sandberg, Sortevik and Hoksrud, that the bonding of property in connection with transport projects is automatically followed up with a redemption offer, no unreasonable proposal. On the contrary, it should be obvious that public authorities should soon ensure that landowners and families do not live for years in great uncertainty about what is happening to their property. So also a unanimous committee in the attitude that letting owners and residents live in uncertainty for many years in terms of the time of redemption of tied properties is to place an unreasonable burden on individuals for tasks that are the responsibility of the state and in the interests of society. It is a great pity that not even an overall committee can support the proposal itself, where the Government is urgently asked to propose guidelines for the bonding and redemption of residential property in connection with commercial projects, which ensure that binding is automatically followed up with the offer of redemption – a proposal which, in the Committee's decision, is supported only by the four opposition parties. Why the government parties do not want to support the proposal, they themselves can explain in the subsequent debate, but one possible explanation may be that they believe that the Minister for Transport is making sure that the necessary guidelines are put in place quickly, without any decision in the Grand Duchy today. I'm sorry, and although we can all hope for it, the Right is not convinced that that will happen. In February, when the representative Trond Helleland raised this issue in a question to the Minister for Transport, the Minister for Transport replied, among others. that proposals for guidelines had just come to the Ministry, that she should go through them and that the Storting would be informed of changes in a proper manner. The first possibility would be in the context of the revised national budget for spring. We all know that this was not the case, and that the Minister of Transport was given the first opportunity to remove the uncertainty with which very many families live. The problem is mentioned, but no solutions have been presented. The excuse is that this is complicated. To put it this way, I don't think the situation of the landowners is less complicated. Examples of people who live in uncertainty after the properties are many. In the setting, an example is drawn from the smoke especially. The situation of the Smoke population was also the background to Greece’s questions in winter. The example is not random. In the smoking sector, eleven households have been waiting for almost eight years for redemption related to the planned development of rv. 23 - a situation that has created major problems for several of them. Families have had both social and mental problems, and seriously ill people who need to move to an apartment in order to cope with everyday life have not been able to do so. They've become hostages in their own house. The whole thing is a shame. Unfortunately, the matter is not unique in the smoking industry. We could do another example in the same state. The landowners at Solli Height have also experienced an unworthy situation with expectations and uncertainties over several years in the planning of new E16. The Minister for Transport has therefore been sitting on proposals for guidelines for several months. It is incredible that she has a conscience not to resolve the situation for both the inhabitants of the smoke and others. I can at least promise that the Right won't give up. We will pursue this matter until it is resolved. Finally, I would like to make proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left, which is included on page 2 of the vote and which is identical to the proposal made in document No. The 8th proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e809	The representative Beate Heieren Hundhammer has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e812	The representative Heieren Hundhammer has been able to figure out that these people in smoke have been waiting for eight years, and so she expects this government to take care of it in three years. The previous government didn't lift a finger to fix this. Today, the Storting deals with a very important issue of the redemption of properties, which is an example of David's fight against Goliath. So it's about the redemption of property in connection with transportation projects. This is a problem and an injustice that has been going on for many years. When society needs the planning and implementation of transport solutions, this will sometimes lead to the abandonment of property by landowners. This has led to too many landowners and residents living in uncertainty for very many years in terms of the time of redemption. The residents who want to sell their houses will not be sold, and they cannot plan for the future. This is an unreasonable burden on individuals and has brought a great deal of personal burden on individuals. I am pleased that the Ministry of Transport sees this unfairness and has addressed the problem. Now it's urgent. We can't let people live in this uncertainty. I expect and believe that the guidelines will be put in place as soon as possible, and that the situation will be clarified for the residents who have been waiting for years. The majority of the Committee also believes that the principles should be the same as for dealing with the bonding of dwellings in planned railway and road projects. I understand that the matter is complex, and that this is about both law and economics. As politicians, we must be decent, but we also have a commitment to the individual in society. As I said, this injustice against private individuals has been going on for many years, and so we did not get any drag help to solve this problem under the previous government. The Party of Progress, which has recently produced Document No. 8-proposals, didn't come up with the idea of helping people who got their properties tied up. The Ministry of Transport has now started work on the guidelines and has confirmed that the Ministry will come back to the matter in the context of the 2009 State Budget. I'm glad, and I'm meeting a good solution for everyone who's hit. In Drammen's Official Journal on Saturday, there was a reading in which it said: «Give us back the freedom of action over our own lives and property. Now we can't wait any longer." This is a cry for help, and I trust that the department will hear that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e843	With a few small exceptions, I could almost say: Nice, the representative fell, we agree! But there's a small flaw, because you don't intend to vote for the proposal that will make sure to solve the challenges for those people that this is about, all those who are in the frustrating situation it is to get their property tied up and lose the value of their property. This is a matter that has been going back and forth for a long time, and on which there has still been no clarification. The Council of State has stated that the matter will be discussed in the context of the revised State budget. All the parties in the committee agree that this is a problem which we must now urgently seek to clarify. In the revision, the Council of State shows that, due to the fact that a number of issues have arisen which take longer to be addressed, the Ministry cannot resolve the matter in a revised manner, but will come back in the context of the 2009 State budget. The whole problem is that these are things that are happening back and forth without anything happening in concrete terms, and without taking action that will give the people who live in this situation a clarification and get their property redeemed, so that they can start their lives again. I find it very regrettable that there are now more than 500 homeowners who, on the basis of this, still have to live in uncertainty and uncertainty as to when there will be a final clarification of the situation they are in. It's good that it comes from St.prp. No 45 for 2007-2008 may look as if a solution has been found for the dwellings that have been built in connection with the development of E6 from Trondheim to Stjørdal, but unfortunately too many still have no clarification in the St.prp. No 45 or in the context of the revised national budget. The Progress Party believes this is unacceptable, and had therefore hoped that the majority would follow up our proposals in dealing with this matter. I also want to come back to the unsustainable situation of the eleven households in the smoke that have now for more than seven years been waiting for a clarification on whether, and when, if so, their houses will be redeemed in connection with the development of rv. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox They were even present here in the Questionnaire and heard the question from the representative Trond Helleland. They met the Council of State and got an assurance that this matter had now come to the Department, and that they would work hard to get the matter settled. They're still waiting. All expectations and uncertainties have put an excessive burden on each family because of measures that are in the interests of society. Too many people contribute to poorer quality of life, and their health is affected. This is because you're stuck with a property that has no value at all. At the same time, these residents don't have the opportunity to get anything new, because you don't know what the redemption sum is. Then you do not have the opportunity to start again elsewhere. The Progress Party believes that this is putting family burdens on society’s need for the development of common infrastructure so much that it is actually unreasonable and totally unsustainable. We would therefore point out that it is now essential to put in place a system that ensures that all those who experience a decision to get their housing redeemed due to infrastructure projects are offered the redemption of the dwelling/property. In order to minimise the negative impact on the owner, it is also important to provide for redemption until the start of development. The forwarding party also assumes that the redemption is made at market prices. It is important that such a system be put in place immediately. I would therefore strongly urge the majority once again to support the proposals in the matter and to address the proposals of the Progress Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e858	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e861	This is a matter of principle that needs rapid clarification. The situation is unsustainable for those concerned. Owners and residents cannot live for years in uncertainty, as they do now. The Council of State also recognizes the need to change the guidelines we have today. An overall committee expresses concern about those concerned. Everything should be able to get better arrangements in place quickly. It is good that work is in progress on completing the guidelines, but this applies only to road projects. The Christian People's Party will add that it is also necessary to look at how redemption is managed in relation to railway projects. The principles for dealing with the bonding of dwellings in planned railway and road projects must be the same. Right, the matter is complex, but this is starting to go out really in time. In its reply to the Committee, the Council of State states that it will refer the matter to the revised national budget. This has been done, but it is clear that the Ministry will come back to the matter in connection with the State budget for the autumn. In order for us to plan and implement a transport project, landowners must occasionally dispose of property. We can't ignore that. But we cannot let owners and residents live for many years in uncertainty about the time of redemption. It is now urgent to clarify the needs of society and the right of individuals to safety and predictability. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that the Government must get ahead of the matter, and we must put in place guidelines to ensure that the binding of dwellings in connection with the planning and development of a transport project is automatically followed up with the offer of redemption. I also refer to the proposal where we are co-sponsors.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e876	This issue is about an important topic, namely how the big community should be oriented towards individuals in matters where their own property is bound by planned transport projects. In order for society to evolve, the infrastructure must do the same. It involves new and wider roads and subway tracks, and tunnels through mountains that one once had to cross or cross. Unfortunately, many transportation projects mean that houses and estates must be taken, and this is not - and should never be - easy for us politicians to do. It's about houses where the owners have lived their lives, had kids and planned a pleasant retirement. It's about houses where people have spent a lot of time and work to create a home. And for those who haven't planned to stay there for a long time, it's a property that they have to sell at the best possible price in order to buy something new in another place. It is important that good guidelines are put in place for the government to dissolve property rights that are bound by transport projects, both road and rail projects. The guidelines must ensure that owners are properly cared for, so that their economy does not suffer from this, and that their future plans do not become unnecessary. The centre party is equally impatient when it comes to resolving this challenge, like everyone else, and we look forward to the Ministry of Transport returning to the proceedings for the redemption of tied ownership judgments in the context of the next year's budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e889	This is a matter which unfortunately has taken longer than expected. I am busy finding better and better solutions for those who are affected by transport development. Innocent third parties must be able to require a faster and more conservative solution from the state side than after the current roadside orientation lines. It is unthinkable that many households have to live in uncertainty for several years when it comes to the time of redemption, such as: those who have been affected by the development of Rv. 23 in the Smoke. But if this was easy, the Right, who has now engaged so much in the matter, should have sucked to sort this out in its reign. The population has been waiting for almost eight years. We're the fourth government that's in this case. Like that, and unlike the previous ones, we do something about it. It is incredible, said the representative Heieren Hundhammer, that I have been sitting on the guideline for two months. But right, Christian People's Party and Left sat for four years without lifting a finger. Then one has to accept that this Council of State, which actually has to deal with the matter, also spends the necessary time clarifying, among other things. in relation to the Ministry of Justice when it applies to the legal aspects of the case. This demonstration proposal, which is here today, is too late. The same is true of Right's sudden zeal in the matter. The initiative was taken early in this period in a meeting of the Ministry of Civil Affairs where representatives of the landowners of the Smoke and Eirin Falldet, who have been involved for a long time, took part. That's when we started working. That is when we raise the matter, and after that we have been given the matter. The work on the new guidelines is well under way and aims to address such unsustainable situations as those in the smoke. As I have said before, it remains to clarify some issues relating both to the legal and the economic. And that's when it's different to sit in position and in opposition. Because when you're in position, you actually have to solve these issues before you file a case for Stortinget. If not, the government has not done its job. I see that uncertainty regarding the redemption of the dwelling can also be relevant in connection with railway development, even though the size is greater on the road side. I have noticed that the Committee believes that the principle of the ban on housing for planned road and rail projects should be the same. The railway station is connected to the site and the department now assesses whether there should be a common guideline on the road and rail side. I will return to the matter in connection with the 2009 state budget, and I intend to lay the principle of housing redemption before the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e904	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e908	I take it almost as a little honorary sign every time the Council of State claims that a proposal is a demonstration proposal, because then I know that we're pretty much getting a pass. We got that when it was 70 years old, and when it was about seats for children in school buses. Although it has not yet been implemented, the Council of State comes back and says that they want to make some suggestions on these good things. But when we have put forward the proposals in advance, it is a demonstration proposal. When the Council of State says that there were some complications in the picture here that made you unable to do this, I think it's a bit fun to see that in St. prp. No 45 is stated some premise for how to redeem the dwellings that are mentioned there. Why can't the Council of State ensure that this becomes part of the general legislation, so as to resolve the unsustainable situation of the eleven households in the smoke and of the more than 500 other households who are still standing waiting and experiencing a bureaucracy, bureaucracy, bureaucracy that does not deliver, and ensure that they get their properties redeemed, so that they can restart again after the state has demanded their properties to be redeemed?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e915	First of all, it is not difficult to obtain a pass when the matter has already been raised and is under work, such as this case. Had the representative Hoksrud or the Progress Party brought this up in the previous period when no one had taken a stand, one could say that one took an initiative and that one was getting a pass. But what the Progress Party is doing today is just to bring up a proposal in a matter that is for disposal, and it'll be easy for one to pull a little bit on the shoulders of it. That's a little stupid, because such proposals should of course be the basis for the development of new policies. As I have said before, there are some questions that need to be resolved when it comes to the time when redemption is due to take place. Is it when the road is to be built? Is it when you start a regulation? Is that when the regulatory plan has been adopted? What would be the right time compared to when one, when one dissolves a dwelling, has to make sure, of course, that there is a road or a route, whether one extends this to also a railway? All of this gives us plenty of opportunity to discuss when we present a case for Stortinget later.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e922	First of all, I would like to say that not trading on the grounds that others have not done anything before is a very bad excuse for not doing anything. At least it doesn't help the people in the smoke. After three years in government, it may be time to stop complaining about what previous governments have done or have not done. There's only one year left in government. Governments spent so much time trying to challenge her a little bit more in the time perspective. She said that in the 2009 state budget, she aims to present this matter so that it can be discussed. Can the Council of State guarantee that a proposal for a concrete solution is presented in the 2009 State Budget for those who have been tied up with their properties, so that they can redeem their properties and we can get a concrete solution to their situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e929	First I want to say that it might be a little early to establish that this government has only one year left to rule. The representative may be surprised that this government will sit longer, but it is now up to the voters to say their words before that time. When I say that I intend to file a case in the state budget, that's exactly what I'm going to do. It's the formulations a user of the terminology that I've learned in my impatient mind to accept. Of course, it is a matter of providing guidelines to guide how the State Road Service and, where appropriate, the Railway Agency should behave when a person gets these kinds of things on the table - if not, there was no point in presenting new guidelines. Then we would have done with the ones we have today, which unfortunately are not satisfactory.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e936	I still have to follow up the Council of States, because she says there will be many words and little concrete. I would like to challenge the Council of State, because part of what the Council of State is addressing is in St.prp. No 45. It's very clear which agreements you want to make, in concrete terms, and this could also apply to the eleven people in the smoke and to the other 500 households, who don't get their property redeemed, because you have to wait for the department to finish, so there are rules on how to do it in a good way. Why can the Council of State not use the same guidelines as underpinning the deployment of E6 between Trondheim and Stjørdal to resolve the hopeless situation in which these residents live?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e941	When I've said again and again that we're working on new guidelines, we're doing just that. That is why I am not going to comment on other matters today. I'll come back to Stortinget with new guidelines, as promised, and then we can take the discussion. What's in other documents is getting laid, because it's not relevant in relation to what I've presented today, where I'm very clear that we need to find a solution that is satisfying for them this debt, while, of course, it's also very necessary to find a system that limits the time of redemption. In the value of the Progress Party, with unlimited economic resources, we could immediately get a case on the drawing board, redeemed all those who live in the respective area. Unfortunately, that's not how it is in my worth. The funds must be given priority. People are going to have a better order than today, they're going to have a fair system, and that system must of course apply to everyone -- not just those in the smoke, even if they're mentioned especially today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e946	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e951	Now there's a lot of big words flying by here. I now expect, with the urgency that we see that many have, that the sum is in their alternative budget. I'm assuming that there's a template on the ground and that it's calculated on this. 500 households, it was mentioned. How much does it amount to for responsible politicians? We have to make sure that both the legal and the economic are in place. I expect that. We can't play politics. Yeah, it's urgent. To the representative Heieren Hundhammer, I'd say it's urgent. It has been urgent for many years, even when the Bondevik II government, with Skogsholm as Minister of Transport, was in charge, and it was urgent when the Progress Party had leverage in the budget, but there was no document No. Eight proposals to look at then.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e958	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3479]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e974	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each lot and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines following the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e983	The case concerns representatives from the Progress Party. Representatives Arne Sortevik, Per Sandberg and Bård Hoksrud propose that the Coastal Works be organised as a state company or as a state limited liability company. The purpose of such a reorganisation is to enable the Coastal Agency to raise long-term and reasonable government loans - it is a pity that the Halleraker representative has left the Chamber, for here he could get the explanation he was missing instead - which can ensure clear and predictable funding to implement the necessary investments in infrastructure within the maritime transport network along the coast, especially the backbone of the maritime network. The proposers also propose that responsibility for the Coastal Works be transferred to the Ministry of Transport and that it be made independent of whether the Coastal Works are organised as a body or as a company. In this way, we bring together all the trades in transport under one department, a modern and more efficient management solution. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, indicates that matters addressed in the draft representative will be dealt with in the forthcoming revision of the National Transport Plan 2010-2019. The majority propose that the matter be annexed to the minutes. So uninterested are the other parties that the Progress Party was given the task of being the case rapporteur for its own proposal! It's the first time I've experienced it. It could probably happen again. We're stubborn. We do not do mass production, as the representative Fallet mentioned in the previous case. We are pursuing policies, and we are making well-thought-out proposals. It is a pity that there is a lack of interest in modernising in the transport sector, but it is symptomatic. The Coastal Agency, such as the Road Directorate and the Railway Agency, has a long waiting list with important and socio-economic good investment projects that lack funding. The same agencies are increasingly in need of extensive upgrading of existing infrastructure. There is a need for investment, and Norway urgently needs to link financial wealth with increasing infrastructure upgrading needs. The organisation of the Coastal Works as its own company, which is also given the opportunity to raise long-term government loans, considers the Progress Party to be a good and modern solution that can speed up necessary investments in improved maritime transport infrastructure. The need, as I said, is great. I am pleased to point out an example that the Transport Committee has now met twice, both on an inspection in Eastfold and now quite recently on an inspection in Akershus, the repair of the entrance to Halden port to ensure the operation and further expansion of the company Nexans Norway, which is among the world's leading suppliers of high-speed sea cables. The project is not prioritised by the Coastal Agency within today's framework despite previous promises made by several government councils in this government. Modernization must be done, says the Progress Party. I refer, for others, to the other modernisation proposals of the Progress Party which have been discussed earlier today. The Progress Party notes that there is little willingness on the part of other parties to discuss the renewal and development of the financial instruments that can provide modern, efficient, safe and environmentally friendly infrastructure. Nevertheless, it is important to mention that the principle is accepted by all as regards aviation. With today's aviation policy, the State is almost monopolistic airport owner, organised as a limited liability limited liability company for the investment and upgrading of aerodromes and installations. Why it is to be accepted in aviation and not in the road sector, in the rail sector and in maritime transport is not easy to understand. It is also not acceptable for the Progress Party. I am referring to the fact that the Progress Party has promoted two corresponding'modernisation' proposals. For Document No: 8:22 for 2007-2008 to establish a state road transport company. It was dealt with in January and rejected by all the other batches. It also applies to Document No. 8:27 for 2007-2008 on the organisation of the Railway Agency as a State Company. It was dealt with in March and rejected by all the other batches. These proposals are still very topical. The Progress Party has noted with interest that the Railway Agency is now arguing strongly for alternative financing based on the solution proposed by the Progress Party again, because we are again proposing - in this case - modernisation solutions for the Road Directorate and the Railway Agency respectively, and modernisation solution for the Coastal Network, in order to ensure the financing of a faster deployment of an efficient, safe and environmentally friendly road network. The Progress Party has three proposals that I would like to raise. Proposal No. 1 is an alternative to the majority vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e1006	The representative Arne Sortevik has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e1009	In motion for a resolution (Doc. 8:79 in 2007-2008, the representatives Arne Sortevik, Per Sandberg and Bård Hoksrud promote proposals to reorganise the Coastal Agency to state companies. In addition, they propose that the Government transfer responsibility for the Coastal Works from the Ministry of Fisheries and Coast to the Ministry of Transport. I should like to congratulate the Progress Party on productivity. This is the last in the series of proposals by the Progress Party on the reorganization of transport modes. The claim of the Progress Party is that in order to increase the transfer of goods from road to sea and track, there must be a change in the organisation of the Coastal Works. As many people are aware, the Coastal Plant has been through several reorganisations in recent years. In this context, different organisational models have been evaluated. The structure and organisation of the coastal works were thoroughly addressed and reviewed in NOU 1999:5 The new Coastal Agency. As a follow-up to this, Stortinget was presented to St.meld. No 13 for 2000-2001, on the organisation of the Coastal Plant. In examining this, Stortinget argued that the Coastal Plant should be transformed into a management company by the end of 2001 and that the Coastal Directorate should be moved to Ålesund. This should happen at the same time. In this context, the production unit was placed directly below the coastal director and moved to Kabelvåg. The reorganisation took place because it would provide a more rational operating model and facilitate more efficient use of people, equipment and money both in the short and long term. In the context of the government change in 2001 and the presentation of St.prp. No 1 Appendix No 4 a number of aspects of the organisation of the Coastal Plant were examined. The then government felt that it was most appropriate for the Coastal Plant to remain a management company. In St. prp. No 1 Appendix No 6 for 2004-2005 concerning the transformation of the production activities of the Coastal Works into State limited liability companies, a majority of them joined the establishment of a State limited liability company and, from 1 January 2005, the company Secora AS was established. This means that there is today a distinction between the authority tasks of the Coastal Agency and the production activities of fishing ports and fairgrounds. This means that the Coastal Agency is today a body which mainly carries out administrative and public services under law. Therefore, it is natural that these tasks are performed by an establishment rather than by a public limited liability company. The majority of the majority of the shareholders therefore see no reason to convert the Swedish Coastal Agency into a limited liability company at this stage. The majority also don't see that we're dependent on a reorganization to get more goods across the track and the sea. Part two of the proposal addresses the issue of shifting responsibility for the Coastal Agency to the Ministry of Transport. It's not the first time this question has been raised. We should remember that the work of the Coastal Works is an important part of the overall coastal management. A comprehensive maritime and coastal management will face a number of key administrative tasks in the years to come, including: seas will, as a result of new EU-EEA legislation, be given an even more important task in the field of maritime safety and preparedness, which is a prerequisite for realising marine value creation. Moving the Coastal Plant could make this more difficult. In particular, coastal and marine management will be important in the north areas, both in terms of maritime safety and the framework conditions for maritime transport to and from north-west Russia, and not least in terms of ensuring good regulation of maritime transport in the waters around Svalbard. It is therefore most appropriate that the Coastal Plant remain in the Ministry of Coastal and Fisheries. In the light of this, I propose that this matter be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e1026	It is important to focus on how we organise government. In the transport sector, the large amount to be used for operation, maintenance and expansion should be the maximum amount of funds used for operational tasks. At the same time, we need to have an administration that ensures the quality of these tasks. In my letter of 18 April this year, I briefed the Committee on Transport and Communications on the processes associated with the organization of the Coastal Agency in recent years, for this has been thoroughly debated in previous years. With effect from 1 January 2002, the head office of the establishment was moved from Oslo to Ålesund. During the reorganisation of the station, the vessels used for the new facilities, operation and maintenance of the navigation devices were assembled in a separate unit, known as the Shipyard Coast Guard. This is a separate accounting unit directly subject to the Coastal Director. In connection with the move, the financial management of the establishment was also assessed. The budgetary powers were amended to ensure the efficient operation of the establishment. The appropriations under the Coastal Plant were collected in one heading of expenditure and revenue. This ensures the need for budgetary flexibility. Furthermore, it provides the Coastal Zone Agency with the possibility of internal governance based on business-economy principles. At the same time, new revenue powers were proposed. In this work, it was considered that the changes will provide the Coastal Plant with a good basis for rational and efficient management and operation within the framework agreed by the Stortinge. I can't see that new relationships have arisen that are changing this now. The development of the floor also continued after the move. As of 1 January 2003, responsibility for state preparedness for acute pollution was transferred from the Ministry of the Environment and the SFT to the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Department and the Coastal Administration. Thus, operational civil resources on the shores of one and the same department were increasingly brought together. The aim of the transfer was to facilitate better coordination of oil protection equipment. One aim was to obtain a more efficient use of public funds through such a pool of tasks. Nor can you see here that new conditions have arisen that would change previous assessments. The entrepreneurship of the company is separated as a state limited liability company, when Secora AS was established on 1 January 2005. This made a clearer distinction between the Coastal Authority tasks and production activities related to fishing ports and traffic controllers. Furthermore, it is an objective to increase productivity, so that we can expand the money allocated to fishing ports and fairways. The coastal works are currently a body primarily responsible for administrative tasks and services under law. It is therefore natural that this should be carried out by an administrative body and not by a state company. The coastal works must operate within the limits of the appropriations made available by the Storting. We can all wish for more resources to be made available in some areas, whether it be for port development or for oil protection. However, this should continue to be part of the annual budgetary processes, where we can see the different needs of society in the context. It is on such a basis that politicians should make our priorities. The majority of the Stortingen have just given priority to the transport sector, including port development, and also oil protection. The Soria Moria Declaration states that the Government wants a strong and efficient public sector. It shall be capable of ensuring quality, accessibility, fairness and economic efficiency. There will always be room for improvement, and we will therefore look at the possibilities for further efficiency of the Coastal Plant. As I pointed out in my letter to the Committee, this is part of the ongoing dialogue and an important part of the departmental management of the Coastal Works. This document also deals with the departmental link of the Coastal Agency. As I wrote to the committee in my response letter of April this year, this has been assessed earlier. A comprehensive maritime and coastal management will face a number of key administrative tasks in the years to come. It is pointed out that the ports with the Coastal Agency, including as a result of proposals for new EU-EEA legislation, will have an even stronger role to play in maritime safety and preparedness. This is a necessary prerequisite, for example: to realise the value creation potential of the marine and maritime sectors. The work must also be seen in conjunction with the other work of the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs in coastal and marine management. There have also been no new issues here that would change that assessment. In sum, this means that today's departmental relationship appears to be a reasonable continuation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e1049	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e1052	Just cards to the last: that view does not share the party of progress. We believe that the transport sector and the transport sector would have benefited from bringing together all the departments of a common transport ministry. It is such that the Coastal Plant has a significant lag on both the maintenance side and the investment side. In the case of investments, it is recorded from the establishment itself that even with an extension of the economic planning framework by 20 pst. there will be too low to meet the estimated needs in most coastal areas of activity. The point of proposing reorganization to a state company is to provide new financial tools; it is to go beyond today's annual budgetary framework within a expenditure budget and to open up this department, in line with those in our other proposals, to raise government loans. The effect of getting government loans to invest is that you can do things a lot faster, but based on a long-term investment principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e1061	First, I would like to say that no matter how you organise the tasks in the Norwegian administration, you will never find an organisation that does not require a seamless approach to the other departments as well. We in the Ministry of Fisheries and Coast have excellent cooperation with the Ministry of Transport. I am absolutely sure that we will be able to see the role of ports and fairways in relation to the other transport system. But so it is that oil conservation, the way we organize our maritime safety work, is closely related to the management of the sea as such. The Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs has many tasks that need to be seen in the context of the Coastal Administration. Then we can't organize ourselves away from financial needs or in a way magic out more money. We need to give priority, no matter how we organize, or what kind of funding we make. Our problem in Norway is not that we lack money. It is that we lack labour. It's a big challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e1068	The problem is that we cannot provide labour. That's a pretty worn-out answer. It is also such that many of the people who work in the construction industry reject it. The problem is to link the wealth of money and the good economy to using it in large infrastructure projects, where money is spent on investment and not on expenditure. That's the challenge, and that challenge is not a hocuspocus. The active substance and tools are also not a hokuspocus, but you have to see the difference between an annual cost and a long-term investment that lasts for 50 years. So you can use government loans to do that. But then you might have to organize the building in a slightly different way, which makes it possible to get a loan. Loans mean that you can get a clear funding for large projects, and then you pay back the annual instalment and the annual interest. That's the solution, and there's no hocus pocus. I hope the Council of State sees that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e1073	I fundamentally disagree with the analysis by the Progress Party of the situation and the claims made here by the representative Sortevik. Firstly, I disagree with the description that we do not lack labour. I believe that those who do this daily will support me in it. In order to provide more labour, we need an inclusive working life that allows more people to participate. Several hundred thousand people in Norway are out of work today. It's a problem. We also need to attract more foreign labour. Not in any of the two areas have I seen that the Progress Party has some credible recipe. So we're going to grant from the government as much money as the Norwegian economy can bear. But if we spend too much money, the good will be the best enemy. Then the interest rate shoots in the weather, and we put people with mortgages and the Norwegian export industry in a very difficult situation. We don't want to end up there.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e1083	Now it's getting pretty fun here, when the Council of State gets into, among other things. inclusive working life and there will be a money discussion. I want to challenge the council when she says that it is really the government that decides how much money we can spend. We can spend as much money as we can. So the government says that they have the definition of how much money we can spend or not spend in the Norwegian economy. I just want to ask one specific question to the Council of State. When you can spend NOK 120 billion more on the Snow White Development because of exceedances, without creating inflation in the Norwegian economy, how can the Council of State say that it is the Government that has the only solution to how much money you can spend? This was NOK 120 billion one had not foreseen to use in the Norwegian economy, and inflation did not escape for that reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e1090	This is about having a responsible budgetary policy. If we had only raised billions in the annual budgets without ensuring that we had sufficient labour at our disposal, the consequences for Norway would have been brutal. I don't think the solution of the Progress Party to sort of get out of the annual budgets and create just such hocuspocus solutions to get more money, is some way to go. Whether we had spent more oil money, we wouldn't have gotten away from the fact that we have to prioritize.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e1095	I will continue to challenge the Council of State, because she does not answer my question, how we could spend NOK 120 billion in the Norwegian economy without creating inflation, without having the negative consequences that the Council of State is saying here and preaching becomes the consequence if you spend more money in the Norwegian economy. The propulsion party wishes to use the profits from the oil revenues. So we don't want to take from the oil fund, we want to use something more of the profits. After all, the statistics of the SSB have shown that our government budget and our budgets are good at avoiding increased inflation and interest rates.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e1100	I am not sure that the Progress Party has found a researcher at the very heart of the Statistical Central Bureau who supports their oil money use, as long as the Governor is not convinced. That Statoil or others exceed their budgets is not what we're talking about here. We're talking about the budgets that the state provides every year, which are important to the pressure of the Norwegian economy. All economic disciplines in Norway say that we must be restrained from the use of oil money in high economic conditions. So we can use more when it's a recession. The government is prepared to spend as much money as the Norwegian economy can bear, but no more. There won't be any more ports of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e1105	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e1108	Now let me just spend one minute on a problem, and then I hope the Council will answer that. I mentioned in my article that we, as the committee on the inspection, have twice encountered problems - and now I am at micro- and not at macro level - linked to the fairway, i.e. the entrance, to Halden port. Most recently on the trip to Akershus quite a short time ago, the company Nexan Norway raised problems that they did not get large enough boats into the rather narrow entrance to Halden port. This matter we know has been up in Stortinget in various ways in the past - as far as I can see, well a year ago. Then, in March, the then functioning coastal minister, Dag Terje Andersen, said a lot about this. It was a poor hope, but one suggested a possible solution related to the rolling of the plan. So now this was reopened with the Transport Committee when we were on an inspection, and I hope that the Council of State - the proper Council of State, not only the effective Minister of the Coast, but the actual Minister of the Coast - can also say whether there is any hope of finding a solution for Nexans in Halden, so that they are not forced to move, to decline, but that this company, which is one of the world's leaders on the cables at sea, can continue its activity down there and expand further.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e1120	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3480]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e1128	The increase shall now be added to the case No. 1-4.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e1136	In the course of the debate, Ms Sortevik presented eight proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the implementation of the Urban Railway Project in Bergen is subject to State supervision.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The budget authorises the implementation of the said tribal and national road projects in the overall Haugaland package with State funding. The size assumes that this is done through the annual government budgets, where the funds are made transferable so that individual projects can be carried out independently of budgetary mines.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The decision rejects the extension of the tolling scheme in Kristiansand to cover new measures in 2008. The size calls on the Government to advance funds for the investment measures on the national roads mentioned in the case pending the treatment by the Storting of a new transport package for the Kristiansand region.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘For the implementation of planned measures of Rv 45 in the municipality of Gjesdal in Rogaland, the State advances the necessary funds covered by the final retirement of the State budget for 2008.’» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for a reduction in revenue due to works in connection with upgrading the Ellingsøy and Valderøy tunnels. Necessary amounts are included in the final payment of the State budget for 2008.’» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The size requests the Government to advance up to 40 million. SEK for dwellings to be moved away in connection with the construction of the Parcel Nidelv bru-Grillstad in Trondheim Municipality, which is part of the E6 project Trondheim-Stjørdal. The amount is incorporated in the final age of the State budget for 2008.’» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up a state road haulage company. The main objective of the company shall be to facilitate the development and maintenance of an efficient, safe and environmentally friendly national road network and to facilitate such development in large-scale projects based on State funding. The decision requires the Government to assume that the company’s activities are financed by long-term government loans.’;» Proposal No. 8 sounds: «The Government asks the Government to organise the Railway Agency as a State company. The main objective of the company shall be to facilitate the development and maintenance of an efficient, safe and environmentally friendly national network in Norway, and to facilitate such development in large-scale projects based on State funding. The decision requires the Government to assume that the company’s activities are financed by long-term government loans.’;» These proposals will be replaced by the Committee's voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e1208	Eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-7, by Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Proposal No. 8, from the left, is taken up to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In 2008, the Government asks the Government to file a case in the form of a major communication on increased investment in a more modern public transport system in the major urban areas.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e1232	Proposal No. 5, from the Advance Party, taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to present its own case during 2008 for the development of future collective solutions in the major cities.’ The left has announced that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e1249	The Committee's position and the other proposals of the Progress Party are then put forward as an alternative. Proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party reads: ‘The decision asks the Government to present its own case during 2008 for fees and charges in the maritime transport sector.’ Proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party reads: ‘The decision asks the Government to present its own case during 2008 on taxes and charges in the transport sector.’ Proposal No. 3 from the Progress Party reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to present its own case during 2008 on the strategy for Norwegian aviation.’ Proposal No. 4 from the Progress Party reads: ‘The decision asks the Government to present its own case on national projects during 2008 in order to develop transport nodes to ensure that the various modes of transport can work effectively together.’ Proposal No. 6 from the Progress Party: ‘The Government asks the Government to present its own case during 2008 on its own investment programme for large national transport projects.’ Proposal No. 7 from the Progress Party reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to present its own case during 2008 on the use of new financing solutions to ensure State financing of investments in the transport sector.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e1302	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Beate Heieren Hundhammer on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Proposal No. 2, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish a system which automatically offers to persons who are bound by their property for infrastructure purposes the right to redeem the properties at market value immediately after their approval.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e1326	Proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the right, from the Christian Party, and from the left, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit as soon as possible proposals for guidelines on the bonding and redemption of residential property in connection with commercial projects, which ensure that binding is automatically followed up with a redemption offer.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e1353	During the debate Arne Sortevik raised three proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘I The Government asks the Government to organise the Coastal Works Agency as a state-owned company or public limited liability company, in order to facilitate a faster and more socio-economic development and maintenance of efficient, safe and environmentally friendly maritime transport in Norway. The measure assumes that the company will receive long-term, low-interest government loans for its projects and that the company's expenditure on interest and repayment of such loans will be covered by the annual government budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-02.ana.ud1889e1439	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone want a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
