ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09-lower.ana.ud2669e40	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for the replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09-lower.ana.ud2669e47	The proposals contained in this legislative proposal are those that have been put forward in the budget paper, so it is a follow-up to it. But I will first draw attention to page three in the setting, first column, fourth paragraph, where a word has come in too much. The word "calendar month" is twice, and it's once too much. It doesn't matter to the decisions, because it says it's right, but I just want to make sure there's a little typo there. The content is that it is proposed to repeal the income test rule for persons aged between 68 and 69. So it's supposed to stimulate more people to get to work longer. Last year, you lifted the rule for the 67-year-olds, now you're doing it for the 68-year-olds. There is now one additional year's coal not covered by this income test exemption, and with a new pension scheme the principle of such income testing will be removed for all. At this point, the opposition has proposals that I'm counting on it to take up the seam. Another theme that has been discussed many times in the Grand Duchy is the requirement for three years of residence before one can be granted disability benefit or transitional benefit to surviving spouses, and for child pensions when both parents are dead. There have been several occasions in Stortinget, and a request decision has been sent to the Government to submit proposals that could better capture many of the cases raised by various majorities. The proposal that we are about to adopt today captures the cases in which he has had long-standing vested earnings in popular security, and implies a benefit on the basis of this achievement. A requirement would also be that the benefits must be so high as to constitute at least half a minimum pension and that they were a member of the social security system at the time of the social security case. Of course, most of the enquiries I have received are caught by this, but not all of them. In the years that come, maybe we can wait more like that because people move more and live more abroad. In addition, a special solution is proposed for persons who have worked in international organisations, or organisations to which Norway is a member and makes a contribution, or is responsible for manning. They shall not lose their rights in the public interest because of this service. Then it is proposed to introduce a limited entitlement to sickness benefits for retirement pensioners between 67 and 69 years of age. According to today's rules, those who take out a full old-age pension are not entitled to sickness benefits in addition to income from work, but those who receive a graduated pension are entitled to sickness benefits for 90 days. Now that we have removed this income test for the 67- and 68-year-olds, with a desire for them to be at work, it is reasonable to follow up on a change in the rules on sick pay, and that you are now entitled to sickness benefits for 90 days, such as those with a curtailed pension. It is being promoted unanimously. The Committee is also unanimous in favour of extending the right to a retirement pension for disability pensioners who are trying to work, and that right is opened up by an opportunity to apply for renewal after five years. It will be felt as a security not to have to go through a full reassessment round if one chooses to work for as long as one can. The idea behind the provision is that several recipients of disability benefits will try to work when they do not risk having their disability reduced, if it turns out that they cannot continue to work, but have to return to social security. It was the main content of the proposals that have been put forward, and I expect the opposition to explain its alternative proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09-lower.ana.ud2669e66	I would first like to draw attention to the changes that are now taking place in disability, and in particular the follow-up to the 2007 request decision. First of all, I am very pleased that the matter has finally been resolved. I think it was high time, given that it was two years after the Storting decided that the matter should have been accepted. So now we've at least got it signed out, and we've got it for treatment here today. I am also pleased to see the major problems and challenges facing those people who have worked abroad for more than five years, who have come back and actually stood on a bare ground, if they had come in a situation that has made them miserable. That being said, it is still the case that the Progress Party believes that this case has been partially dismissed. We therefore believe that some transitional rules should be in place. For example, a person leaves, works abroad for more than five years, has come back in, for example: 2003 and pending, meet the criteria for disability benefit, but because of the three-year rule up to the current date it does not, however, have effect because the three-year rule has entered into force, which will take effect from 1 January 2009. In those cases, I believe that transitional rules should be put in place, so that those people who fulfil the condition of disability, but who are affected by the three-year rule, can have their cases reviewed and come under those provisions. It also proposes the Progress Party in a proposal here today, and we believe it would have been right and important. In addition, I would also like to make a few comments about what the representative Andersen was about, about shortening the pension for the 68-year-olds. As you know, the Progress Party has, through a series of years, proposed – and unfortunately voted down in this Chamber – that everyone between 67 and 70 years of age, i.e. 67, 68 and 69 years of age, should not have a curtailment in their pension if you have chosen to stay longer in the labour market. That would have been the same for everyone. We've had that debate many times in this room, and I'm not going to travel it again. Then I register that last year the government met us a little bit by removing the curtailment rules for the 67-year-olds. This year, the curtailment rules for the 68-year-olds are removed, and in 2010 the abbreviation for the 69-year-olds will certainly be removed. The same argument has been used by the Government every year, that there will be a sensible measure to make the seniors stand longer in the labour market. My question to the Council of State is: why did it make sense last year that the 67-year-olds should not have curtailment, while the 68-year-olds should have curtailment? This year, it is no longer reasonable for the 68-year-olds to have a curtailment. Now it makes sense for them to drop this abbreviation, but it still makes sense for the 69-year-olds to have a curtailment, and most likely next year, it makes sense that the 69-year-olds should not have a curtailment either. Where is the logic of this type of thinking? Is it so to understand that only money is the problem, that it's the costs you're afraid of? In that case, I think the government parties must be honest enough to say that there are too high costs, and we are less concerned that the seniors are as far as possible in the workplace. Because that is the reality of this proposal, and what has been done since last year, is that only one year's coal of these three year's coals was taken care of when the matter was first raised. I therefore mention the suggestions in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09-lower.ana.ud2669e83	The representative Robert Eriksson has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09-lower.ana.ud2669e86	I shall confine myself to one topic, because, as the Committee's chairman pointed out, these are matters which have been the subject of budgetary procedure in themselves. As regards the position on page 2, where the members of the Committee of the Progressive Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left point out that as regards the abbreviation for the 67-, 68- and 69-year-olds, one important annual coal remains. These parties then promote proposals to abolish the curtailment of the last year's coal as well. I have to say on behalf of these parties that we are disappointed that the Government does not use this last opportunity that the Government has, to actually implement what it said it intended to do, namely to remove the abbreviation. I think many are now quite disappointed and feel deceived by the message that the Government of the Prime Minister presented at the National Meeting of the Association of Pensioners, which was duly covered by the media, among others. The day's revision, and where there was no doubt about it, and the government was very clear about it, that the curtailment was to be removed for all year's coals. Now it doesn't turn out to be the case. That's why I think many people are disappointed – and that's when you had one last occasion. However, when the opposition agrees on this, some of the first thing that a new government will do after the election of the next harvest is to remove the abbreviation also for the last year's coal, namely the 69-year-olds.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09-lower.ana.ud2669e93	The proposals under consideration today are mainly related to the 2009 draft budget. The main proposals are that the retirement pension for pensioners aged between 68 and 69 is no longer to be tested on income. In line with this, it is also proposed to introduce a limited entitlement to sick pay for old-age pensioners between 67 and 69 years of age. The retirement pension income test was suspended for 67-year-olds in 2008. It was right to start with 67-year-olds, as the change will have the greatest effect on those who have not yet settled in retirement. The background was a desire to facilitate the maintenance of older people in work. The extension to the 68-year-olds is a natural continuation. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left also propose to remove the abbreviation for the 69-year-olds in 2009. In my opinion, it is right to prioritize the 68-year-olds. Also, the introduction of a limited entitlement to health care for full-pension old-age pensioners and labour income will help to make work more attractive to these age groups. The proposals for embellishment of the three-year requirement for membership of the population until the default date for entitlement to disability pension are mainly the follow-up to a request decision. The proposals cater for long-term vested people in popular security and give them the right to disability pension on the basis of this. I have noticed that the Progress Party wants persons entitled to a disability pension as a result of the proposal to be included in future rating years and future social security periods. The question has been discussed in the proposition, and I have nothing to add to it. The same applies to the question of also covering cases where disability has occurred abroad. It must be allowed to recall that these are cases which fall outside the responsibility of the public interest under the applicable rules. It's not without a reason either. During the period when a person has resided abroad without paying taxes and social security contributions to Norway, the non-payment will easily amount to between 1 and 2 million. kr or more. It has not been given that such cases should be treated in the same way as when taxes and charges to Norway have actually been paid. I therefore believe – as in the proposition – that such cases should be resolved in social security contracts. In my opinion, the information obligation of the State of Labour and Welfare when moving abroad should be limited to providing good information to those who are actually making contact, as well as ensuring that general information is available. All reasonable requirements at that point should be met already today. The new right to disability pension will also apply to those who were disabled before 1 January 2009. Those who have been rejected in the past may apply for retreatment. Repayments may be made for three months before the claim is made, but not earlier than 1 January. There is no need for transitional arrangements, as the Progress Party has proposed. Finally, I mention that the proposition for extending the right to a retirement pension is important for the unemployed who are going to try their way into the labour market. There is increased security in this situation that they can immediately get the pension back if the work attempt fails. Following the proposal, the court may be extended by five new years on application.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09-lower.ana.ud2669e116	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09-lower.ana.ud2669e119	What got me to take a line at the Council of State was what he ended his post with, that he saw no need for any transitional rules. I would like to challenge the Council of State a little bit more when it comes to it. In any case, I have understood the social security legislation relating to disability benefits, it is very crucial when the default time is set. That's what you're assuming. I have received a number of enquiries from people who have contacted Nav in order to assess their case: What happens when this law is amended, I get my application reviewed, given that they have previously been refused because of the three-year rule, but have met the criteria for disability benefit? In those cases, Nav has told him that the application should not be re-opened. Will the Council of State then clarify to Nav how this legislation is to be interpreted, so that these too are brought up again, as the Council of State actually says from the pulpit today?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09-lower.ana.ud2669e126	I believe that both the proposition and the suspension are clear that those who have previously been rejected on the basis of the three-year rule will now be re-examined. Where I perceive that there may be a discrepancy between the majority position and the proposals of the Progress Party, it may be the time when a person expects a payment to start, which is thus set to 1 January 2009. However, I can clearly state that those who have previously been rejected the application – correctly, to the extent that, under the applicable legislation – will have the opportunity to process their application under the new legislation, but in that case with effect from 1 January 2009 at the earliest.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09-lower.ana.ud2669e131	No more words have been asked for a line. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09-lower.ana.ud2669e141	The odelsting shall vote on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09-lower.ana.ud2669e149	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposal No. 2-4, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to provide for a transitional arrangement for persons entitled to benefits under the exemption rules of Ot.prp. [[2008-2009]] No 8 who have previously received a refusal to apply for a disability pension, as justified by the 3-year rule, which would otherwise be eligible for disability pension on the basis of normal criteria.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that NAV Foreign is given an unconditional obligation to inform Norwegian citizens who move abroad for a longer period of time than the provisions of popular security to maintain rights in social security about the consequences of foreign residence.’ These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09-lower.ana.ud2669e355	Alternatively, between the recommendation from the Committee to Section 12-2, new fourth paragraph, and proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09-lower.ana.ud2669e373	Then there will be a vote between the recommendation from the Committee to the second paragraph of Section 19-4 and the first sentence of the second paragraph of the 19-6 and proposal No. 1, from the Advance Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09-lower.ana.ud2669e398	It'll be over the rest of I and the whole of II.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09-lower.ana.ud2669e408	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09-lower.ana.ud2669e418	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09-lower.ana.ud2669e464	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
