ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e43	The representative of Marianne Marthinsen, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. From 25 February to 14 March, an application for maternity leave has been submitted to the representative of Tord Lien. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Hanne Dyveke Süttar, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e67	The representative, Mr Kjønaas Kjos, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e70	On behalf of the representatives of Kenneth Svendsen, Robert Eriksson and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a reduced recycling time and driving distance for the purchase of a car for disabled people.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e75	The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e78	On behalf of Per Sandberg, Arne Sortevik, Thore A. Nistad and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a representative to change the criteria for national road ferries, so that ferries connecting national road sections are classified as a national road ferries.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e83	The representative, Olemic Thommess, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e86	On behalf of the representative Øyvind Halleraker and myself, I would like to make proposals for changing the username without the agreement of the landowner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e91	The representative of the Svein Fleet will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e95	On behalf of the representatives of Jan Tore Sanner, Martin Engeset, Lars Sponheim, André N. Skjelstad and myself, I am delighted to make proposals to ensure equal treatment of disability pensions from private and public occupational pension schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e100	The representative of Kåre Fostervold will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e103	On behalf of the representative Øyvind Korsberg and myself, I would like to make a representative proposal to make Innovation Norway's instruments more comprehensive and accessible to all applicants.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e108	The representative, Mr Höglund, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e111	On behalf of the representatives Siv Jensen, Per Ove Width and myself, I would like to propose active entry into NATO's missile defence system.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e116	The representative, Robert Eriksson, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e119	On behalf of the representatives of Anders Anundsen, Kari Kjønaas Kjos and myself, I am delighted to make suggestions to raise the ceiling on training aid for people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e124	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 1 and 2 are dealt with as a whole and consider it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e149	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 90 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: 25 minutes, 20 minutes, 10 minutes, 10 minutes, 10 minutes, 10 minutes, 5 minutes for the Christian People's Party, 5 minutes for the Centre, 5 minutes, 5 minutes for the Left and 10 minutes for Erik Solheim. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to three lines with replies after contributions from the main speakers of the parties and up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e158	The handling of the Government's big message on the state of the state of the state of the state of the state has taken a long time. Today it is approx. nine months since the date of referral. An important reason for this has been the many climate-related landfill proposals and communications that the Committee has chosen to give priority to. Let me start by thanking my colleagues in the committee for contributing to good work on this matter when the work was first started. From the point of view of the rapporteur, the treatment has been satisfactory, and the vast majority of parties have essentially dealt with the deadlines set. At the same time, let me thank the Council of State and the Ministry for the good, albeit not always as fast, answers to the questions that the Committee has requested to answer in the light of the examination of the matter. When you read newspapers and watch TV, you can easily get the impression that environment and climate are synonymous terms. St.meld. No 26 for 2006-2007, the Government's environmental policy and the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state, are thus liberatingly clear that Norway faces a wide range of non-climate environmental policy issues. The size will treat St.meld in three weeks. No 34 for 2006-2007, Norwegian climate policy. That's why I don't want to spend a lot of time talking about climate-related issues in my article. In fact, I think that when all the other environmental policy issues we have to deal with must share one debate, while the climate challenge gets a debate for itself, the other environmental policy challenges deserve this debate to be about them. I am sure that other speakers today will not agree with me on this, but that will be at the expense of the individual representative. I am at least concerned to make it clear that the Progress Party has an environmental policy profile that is broader than one theme or one thing. As the rapporteur on the matter, I think it is also right to point out that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection agrees on a number of instruments and, in fact, on even more objectives. For example, there is full agreement on the need to ensure nature as a basis for economic activity. There is also full agreement in the suspension on the need for Norwegian industry to be given framework conditions that ensure that Norwegian industry can continue to be world leaders in environmentally friendly production in the future. Similarly, there is a consensus that international free trade is a good one that has resulted in a reduction in poverty for large ethnic groups over the last decade. There is also broad agreement on a wide range of other objectives, including: the objective of reducing biodiversity loss to the natural level by 2010. This objective is both ambitious and comprehensive. The instruments that should be prioritised in order to achieve this objective are partly dissatisfying. Here are the big dividing lines in this case. The Progress Party believes that research and technology development, sustainable and traditional use, active species management, positive incentives, consumer information and not least local knowledge and management are good environmental policy instruments. The Government Parties demonstrate a greater belief in passive land protection, prohibition, coercion, taxes and state governance as the main and most appropriate instruments. The government strongly believes that politicians and bureaucrats in Oslo and Trondheim are better suited to managing the natural values of Norwegian municipalities, while the Progress Party believes that local politicians and landowners in the same municipalities are best placed to manage many of the same tasks. This represents an important dividing line between the government parties and the Progress Party. Unfortunately, it is in the municipalities where few people live that nature is best protected. This will make it easy for the big society and the majority in the United Kingdom to overrun local democracy on a case-by-case basis. However, it is my hope that the popular uprising that, among other things, The skier Frode Estil has set himself in the head, can send a signal that is so strong that even the Oslo-makta perceives the signal. There are people's reactions to the Government's policy of supremacy in Rondane, in Lierne, in Engerdal, in the Dovrefjell region, to mention someone. Tens of thousands of signatures from pig-grown areas in Norway should make an impression. Hopefully, it will make so much sense that voluntary forest protection goes from being the theme of the Government's celebrations to becoming a practical policy. For Trillemarka's part, it's too late. There, the big community chose confrontation and overrun of landowners and local democracy. On me it makes the impression when Solveg Tonby at the farm Båsum in Sigdal - one of the farms which was hardest hit by the forest protection in Trillemarka - says to the nation's holy magazine HELGA on 1 February: «Dad ran on the skate all his life. He never thought it would be like this. This would be hard for him I am almost happy father has gone away, and will not experience this." [[...]] She therefore says that she is almost happy that the father has gone away and thus relaxed and experienced this. To me, this is a powerful and important testimony to what an assault on the big community has exposed the outback population in Trillemarka. Unfortunately, it is symptomatic of the way the government acts in a wide range of cases. In fact, this big message and the attitude of the Committee are full of promises of voluntary protection, including from the government parties - perhaps a greeting from the Central Party to the voters who still trust the laws from that edge. However, the practice shows that volunteering is only effective as long as the landowners and local democracy lay down the pad area for central power. That coercion protection will continue to be an important tool for the Government in the future is also not concealed in the setting. In predatory policies, there is also sadly little willingness to realize that today’s policy is slow, but certainly strangling the field industry in the most severely affected parts of the country. Nevertheless, with the blessing of the Center Party, the government will quadruple both the bear population and the wolf population back to a very limited area, mainly in Hedmark, but also partly in Eastfold east of Glomma. In this area, it must be considered that both hunting with dog and herding sheep will be a fairy tale only in the future. Now that the Government has made it clear that a wolf attack on a dog will not be included in the new emergency guard paragraph, it must be regarded as another breach of promise from the Government, once again with the blessing of the Centre Party, and to the disappointment of the outlying population. One of the proposals of the Progress Party today is to investigate whether a higher stock of predators affects the quality of life of most people. Nord-Trøndelag has demonstrated clearly that large predatory populations affect the quality of life of the inhabitants. There is no will on the part of government parties to do so in other parts of the country that are covered by large predatory populations. The reason why the government parties oppose such an investigation is obvious, namely that the Progress Party would then have evidence that those living in the foreign municipalities will have their quality of life reduced due to high predatory populations. Similarly, there is no willingness on the part of the government parties to apply the stock targets to individual stock targets. The so-called targets of documented juveniles are very well suited as a stock target for the Oslo power, because most people don't understand what it means, namely how large the population must be to achieve the stock targets they have set. The government parties are not at all accommodating at the point of giving the Food Authority the right to deprive farmers in Norway of the rights of grazing they have today. Food surveillance can today refuse farmers who have had grazing areas they have used for centuries, the right to use these grazing areas, but they do not have the right to grant breeding permits for predators. The Progress Party wants a debate on this, but it is only reluctant on the part of the government parties. Then there is talk of both bioenergy and small power plant expansion in Norway. At the same time, the Government operates with an uninterventional nature and now seems to want to introduce a rule that it should not be possible to grant State aid to installations that reduce what is called an uninterventional nature. Here too, the Progress Party tried to get the Government to say that it had to be allowed to build forest roads, and that it had to be allowed to build small power plants in areas where the non-interventional nature is inside the picture. The government is not responding. Then I note at last that the government is also not attending when the Progress Party wants to discuss whether it is useful to continue to use aluminium as the main treatment method of Gyrodactylus salaris, despite the fact that the method is five times as expensive as rotenone, despite the fact that the method has never been successful, and despite the fact that the negative impact of aluminium is most likely worse than from rotenone. With this, I present the Committee's position and take up the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e195	The representative Tord Lien has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e200	It was a flaming post the representative held now. But when it comes to the setting, I want to ask him a little bit about where the Progress Party is going. In the message and in the setting, there is a chapter entitled Challenges 20 years after ‘Our Common Future’. I think it is a very important matter in the message and in the setting. This describes some of the challenges we face, and not least the situation in both countries and developing countries. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Progress Party, has, for example, found that anthropogenic climate emissions are a threat and that emphasis is placed on the UN Climate Panel and the other reports that have come. There is one party that is still outside and does not recognise this, and it is the Progress Party. I have to ask the representative Lien: is it still such that the Progress Party denies that the challenges we face in terms of CO2 are man-made?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e210	Now it is the case that the Government itself writes quite clearly that climate policy, climate challenges, technology and solutions, etc. should also be discussed. in connection with St.meld. 34 for 2006-2007. In its comments in today's setting, the Progress Party has made it very clear that we want to discuss this in connection with St.meld. 34 and not today's notification. Therefore, Tore Nordtun must lubricate with a little patience and wait until we about. three to four weeks shall address the climate impact assessment message, where these issues belong. Then I must also point out that the Progress Party, together with the Workers' Party, is united on a series of comments on what to do to reduce Norwegian CO2 emissions, and not least to produce more renewable energy. Especially in the last area, I would say that the Progress Party is much more progressive than the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e220	My question goes in the same street as the previous one. It was a very simple question that was just asked, simply: Does the Progress Party believe that an overwhelming majority of world climate scientists say that we are experiencing climate change that comes from human activity? Trust the researchers? It should be possible to answer yes or no. If the answer is yes, why is it not willing to go into a policy that can reduce CO2 emissions both at home and outside?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e228	In a case that looked to those degrees about field-related issues, it is interesting that the Center Party chooses to challenge the Progress Party on climate. I take note of that and take it further. I feel that I answered the question quite well instead. We will return to these questions during the discussion of St.meld. 34 on Norwegian climate policy. Then, of course, there is reason to point out that you have to take seriously both the researchers who are in the climate panel and the other researchers who are not in the climate panel. But there are researchers both inside and outside the climate panel who have divergent views on these issues. We will come back to that during the treatment of St.meld. No Thirty-four.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e235	I want to ask questions about road pricing and about the problem of car traffic entering cities. Now we have just had a climate settlement where we assume that a quarter of the climate emissions come from the transport sector. It is a sector of strong growth. As a resident of Oslo, I am also one of those who notice well how car traffic into cities is increasing, and that there are major problems in many cities. The progress party denies these problems and would rather facilitate wide, large roads and increased car traffic, combined with a petrol price of less than NOK 8 per person. liters. Then the question is whether the Progress Party will soon have to take over the research that has been done, which shows that we need to have a combination of public transport organisation with restrictions on cars in order to get a twist in both the climate, environmental, road safety and health direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e244	There is no doubt that the Progress Party is fully aware that we must have an arrangement for all types of transport, whether it is private cars or public transport. It's quite obvious. The question is who will pay the costs. Now, then, Norwegian drivers are already paying 55, or nearly 60, billion kroner in taxes and taxes. We know that the state spends less than 6 billion dollars of these 55 billion to build a new road. The Progress Party believes that it is not right to impose additional charges on Norwegian drivers simply because you live in a city. It is clear that it is necessary to assess both parking planning, the closure of streets and increased taxes on private cars. It's not a road the Progress Party is willing to go. It's directly unsocial. It will not affect the representative Thorkildsen and the representative Lien, it will primarily affect people with a number of lower incomes than ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e249	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e253	The current environmental debate is strongly influenced by the global climate challenges. Uncontrolled climate change will pose a threat to important natural values, to the balance of nature and to our ability to solve other environmental problems. We have many other important environmental policy challenges. Let me just mention the most important, and as this setting bears the mark of: CO2 emissions assurance of biodiversity chemicals that threaten health and the environment long-range transport of mercury pollution reduction of our annual NOx emissions under the Gothenburg Protocol land management waste management These are the major challenges we face nationally and internationally. This also has a lot to do with the economic growth of society. It's challenging to be able to deal with these challenges. Many of these challenges are not only national but also international. It is therefore important to get international agreements in place, so that we can be on the same boat in terms of the major challenges. International environmental work is becoming increasingly important. Problems and challenges cross borders and cannot be solved alone; they must be resolved jointly. Norway is therefore taking a great deal of responsibility. But when we take this responsibility and write about it in the protocols, it's important that we also follow it up nationally. We must seek solutions that are also sustainable. Norway is one of the few countries that deposits CO2. The government is now adding up to a lot of work in that area. It will come back to this in later debates. But there are important assumptions for this. On the part of the Government and the Workers' Party, there are indications that no permits will be granted in the future. gas power plants before controlling the management of CO2 emissions. In the case of a responsible land management, the Government has taken action in this area and will continue to do so. A new planning and building law is imminent. There, we will place greater emphasis on strengthening municipal and regional planning as a basis for land use. In connection with the new law, of course, we will also tighten up the building in the 100-metre zone, on which we went to the elections and which is in the Soria Moria Declaration, so that the general public can have maximum access to this area. I also look forward to a comprehensive management plan for the Norwegian Sea that will be presented as a major message during 2009. We're going to be a proponent in the management of our oceans. It will take place through both planning and cooperation with other countries. It is also important for us to maintain our strict requirements for the petroleum activity in our marine areas. Of course, the zero emission principle applicable to companies operating in our waters must also apply in the future. Finally, we should also ask the question of whether the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state functions properly. What should initially be a technical and scientific environmental report from the Government to the Stortinget has in many ways ended up being the venue for political symbolisms. I think we now have to take a responsibility to grade this, and we have to ask the question whether we want such a report in the future. I think it can be done much better.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e313	The President, it's gonna be a line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e316	The representative of Nordtun stated that he wanted to strengthen municipal responsibility in land management matters. There is also something about this in the setting. The Committee considers that greater responsibilities and decision-making powers may be conferred on local authorities in land matters for the benefit of the Committee. But we have seen the opposite of the Workers' Party so far in matters such as beach area, in the case of cabin construction in the mountains, not least in terms of the right of municipalities to set up their own recreational loops for snowmobile driving and also in terms of establishing e.g. micro, mini and maybe small power plants - where we know there are big queues to get it done. Is the Workers' Party also thinking of being able to delegate more powers to the local level in these areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e325	It is a very important area that the representative now takes up in his line. There is no doubt that in the future we will always be at the intersection of what we say and what laws we adopt in this House, how it should be put into practice policies and how it should be enforced in the municipalities. But it's important for us to have a whole in what we're doing, and as I also said in my main post, in terms of the challenges we're facing, among other things. in the 100 meter belt, it is for us that the public has access to these areas in the press areas. Then it must also be that the municipalities must comply with certain drawn-up laws which give this access to the public. I also think the questioner has been asked about that. We can't have it so that individual municipalities scan and actually privatize the beach zone in such a way that the public doesn't have access. There is a balance sheet, but there must be indications from this balance sheet also in respect of these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e332	Fortunately, Norway has a lot of clean energy. Yet we see that even in a normal year we have a lack of energy. We have a great potential, including: within small power plants - a potential we can exploit without any special interference in nature, for a number of these projects. But we see that there are bottlenecks. Especially within the NVE, where there are a few case handlers working on just these projects, we have a bottleneck. We see that the length of the procedure has been as long as five years in a number of cases. My question to the representative Nordtun will then be – because I guess he also shares His concern about the lack of energy: When can we expect to see a regime in the NVE that actually reduces the processing time for applications to start the production of new renewable energy, including small power plants?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e341	We also have challenges in the case-handling part, for example. small-scale power plants, but resources have been deployed to the NVE and the ministry just to get away from this queue. We recognize it's too long. The procedure should be faster. There's now funding put into it. But I would also like to say, as a final comment to Skovholt Gitmark, that it must not be such that it is completely clear without any consideration for nature protection in such a context. If it is a long river line and it has been said that it should have a certain natural character, you should not experience the next day that there are six small power plants there. In other words, there are some administrative authorities and also some local politicians who need to get into the picture and assess the situation. This is also complicated in the long process to get a yes or a no.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e350	We have learned that it is part of the environmental objectives of the Soria Moria declaration that are now being waived because they were obviously not quality-proof enough. One of those dimensions is a reduction of the noise load by 25 pst. by 2010. In the document that the Government has now presented, this objective is considerably weakened and it could be helpful to hear the representative Nordtun’s assessment of the background that one is now lowering the level of ambition. How can one be sure that one does not now get a new goal that is not being made an active effort to achieve? I am concerned that the positioning parties do not vote in favour of the opposition's proposal for a roll-out report on the impact of, and action against, noise pollution. Can we wait for new downgrading of the noise targets as the Government leaves to deliver in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e357	As far as noise is concerned, there has been an ongoing political debate over a longer period of time. I just noticed that the previous government also had problems getting into port when it came to noise targets. But I'm not going to owe it - far from it. I just want to say that in the case of noise targets, I think they've been quite ambitious. It is also important for us to set targets at such a level that we are sure that we can at least have a certain opportunity to achieve them. But we see that this is complicated. Especially in the urban areas, this has been a heavier road than what we predicted at the time. We're not giving it up. We're going to continue, but I think it's important to have realistic goals within this as well. But this is a serious challenge for humans, of course it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e364	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e367	For the Right, there is an ideological basis on which environmental policy is based. The world is constantly moving forward, and this is especially about technological progress. Of course, we just have to use them. The market will provide us with the most efficient platform to reduce climate change emissions, and the measures must build on the three elements of the Stern report: carbon pricing, technology development and the removal of barriers to environmentally friendly behaviour. To do that last thing, the tax system has to turn from red to green taxes. Climate challenges are the greatest market failure of our time. We get a fabulous return on acting now. By investing 1 pst. of world GDP today, we can reduce the effects of climate change that would otherwise cost between 5 and 20 pst. of the world's total GDP a few decades from now. We're going to have respect for private ownership, which I'll also come up with later. We have to clean up past environmental sins, whether it's shipwreck, discharge or anything. The guiding principle is that future generations must have the same opportunities as we have been given. The threat of climate change is the greatest challenge of our time. Global warming is due to human intervention such as: massive peaks of rainforest and huge emissions of greenhouse gases. The right is pleased that there is finally a broad consensus in Norway and that more and more countries recognise the need to act now. We can no longer exploit nature and ecosystems over their resilience. All parties minus the Progress Party aim to avoid global warming of more than 2 degrees in relation to pre-industrial time. According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, reductions in global emissions must start in the period 2000-2015 - in other words, now - if the target is to be achieved. Norway should be a driver of international climate change, and we must take a leading role. The Norwegian climate agreement is just one step in the right direction. Right, Christian People's Party and Left wanted longer, but we're still satisfied with what we achieved in the agreement. Norway’s credibility that drives is dependent on reducing its own emissions, contributing to the development of technology and demonstrating that it is possible to decouple economic growth from greenhouse gas emissions. Today, 1.6 billion people live without access to electricity. It would be almost impossible to draw these permanently out of poverty without access to electricity at the same time. The right fully agrees with the Council of State that clean energy should be one of the main objectives of the aid policy. Individual freedom, market economy and open world trade have given unprecedented economic and technological progress over the last few centuries. In the last 50 years, poverty has been reduced more than in the last 500 years, and hundreds of millions of people have been brought out of poverty only in countries like China and India. Market economy and globalisation have raised a large proportion of the population out of poverty in recent years. In some areas, Norway is well advanced in technology. This applies, inter alia, to: before capture and storage of CO2. All batches therefore have an ambition that Norway should be a leading country in the field of CO2 capture and landfilling. National efforts to develop technologies that capture CO2 as cheap as possible will be of great importance in reducing global CO2 emissions. It will have major global consequences that the world's energy needs are expected to increase by 60 pst. by 2030. Most of this growth is expected to be covered by fossil energy sources such as coal, oil and gas. In particular, energy demand will increase in developing and newly industrialised countries. The availability of energy is essential if these countries are to achieve a standard of living that our part of the world holds. At the same time, global greenhouse gas emissions need to be reduced. It is therefore absolutely necessary to free the world’s growing energy needs from the increase in greenhouse gases if we are to avoid a global climate disaster. Nor should we forget the efficiency and expansion of new power based on clean energy or biofuels. Norway is blessed with beautiful and varied mountain, forest and coastal landscapes, and it has a great value to take care of just these. Such areas are becoming fewer and fewer in the rest of Western Europe. On the one hand, it makes our natural areas more important from an environmental professional perspective. At the same time, however, it also increases market value in relation to a tourism perspective. For the Right, it is particularly important that we facilitate the enhancement of competence and the promotion of a sustainable travel life. Protection may be combined with non-injurious activities to help increase the value creation in districts. Tourism and business which do not damage the nature of national parks and other protected areas must also be developed. Unfortunately, the local population opposes protection because it places large areas almost desolate and free of the values they used to have. We need a new regulatory framework to balance protection and tourism and business, and we need to be able to make local assessments within a framework of national guidelines. Good spatial planning, together with sound management, is an important effort to halt biodiversity loss, and the Right is committed to the Government’s goal of halting biodiversity loss by 2010. Too many species, both in Norway and internationally, are at risk of disappearing too well. These developments are highly accelerated by human actions. We have to slow down progress now. Project to preserve the Norwegian mountain reef is a good example of turning development around, with limited resources. Another species that needs immediate emergency aid is the Norwegian lobster, or the North lobster. It is of great importance for Norwegian cultural landscapes that the number has now fallen dramatically, among other things. because of the introduction of American or Canadian lobster. The right will therefore be a driver for the launch of a project to preserve just the Norwegian lobster, including among others. placement of juveniles. Municipalities have the primary responsibility for spatial planning, and administration under other laws is delegated to municipalities to a greater extent. The right considers that a new municipal structure with fewer and larger municipalities will make the planning work more accurate and that the planning needs across administrative boundaries should be addressed through inter-municipal cooperation. I strongly disagree with the majority of the Committee, which will transfer tasks to other levels of government, including a new one. Municipalities must be given greater autonomy in planning and land-use matters. Substantial resources are currently being used to develop non-binding state plans which should also not have binding effect. The only logical thing will therefore be to reduce bureaucracy and liquidate the statutory state plans. Let me say that Right wants increased protection, but that this must be based on voluntary protection. To date, nearly 500 forest owners have offered voluntary protection for 90 areas with a total area of 350 000 deches. This needs to be further developed. The same voluntary protection must also be used in the coastal zone, and the common denominator must be that we maintain important areas for nature and the whole population, and that, of course, it should be based on market compensation for the landowners concerned. The same principle must also be applied to all forms of public restrictions on private ownership. We need the basic owners as co-players, not as opponents. Cultural memories and cultural environments represent important sources of knowledge and experiences, and that is an important part of our collective memory. The fact that the diversity of cultural memories and environments is best protected through an interaction between the private, public and voluntary sectors is a recognition throughout the Committee, and that is good. Local communities that have adopted cultural memories and heritage in a positive way have experienced this as a competitive advantage over the establishment of businesses, the choice of residence, the development of travel, etc. When we get a cultural memory year in 2009, it should be worth remembering that culture should create a broad commitment and increase interest and attention around saving our common cultural heritage. The campaign year will activate the voluntary sector through a broad approach to it. Norway’s Cultural Protection Association will play an important and central role in its implementation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e428	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e432	When discussing the environment and climate, the huge distance between the Right and the Advance Party is clearly shown. The Progress Party refuses to recognise that climate change is man-made, but it does Right. There are major disagreements about CO2 management at Kårstø - there is clearly a big difference. The parties stand apart from each other in the case of wild game management, and the recent climate agreement also shows enormous distance from the Progress Party. With such a distance in key themes of environmental and climate policy, what kind of thinking does the representative Skovholt Gitmark make about any government cooperation where the Progress Party is part of the parliamentary basis of the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e442	There is no doubt that in environmental and climate policy, the Right Party and the Progress Party stand far apart. At the same time, I think it is important to establish that right-wing wishes and will be a driving force for broadest possible civil cooperation. I believe that on a number of points it would be unproblematic to find a common good policy that will be based on centre-right solutions, especially in environmental and climate policy, and in other policy areas it would be natural for the Progress Party to have some impact on its policy. But this will be negotiations after a possible election in 2009, and it will be far too early to speculate on what lies there. I would say that for the Right, it is an absolute goal that we take today's climate challenges seriously. We can't run from the fact that, as we see it now, we are in an accelerated phase of global warming thanks to man-made actions. Therefore, man-made action is needed to limit them now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e447	The representative of Skovholt Gitmark used much of his post to refer to the global climate challenges and what lies there -- he's going to have all the honor to address it. He also pointed to the growth of the world economy, which demands and is driven by the availability of new and increasing consumption of more energy. Then it becomes a little interesting when we know that Norway is still a nation that can benefit from new renewable energy, in the form of wind power and hydropower, above all. Then my question becomes: is it that in the Right is not the time for the large hydroelectric power plants in Norway over yet? And another question, when it comes to local administration, is this local concession treatment for mini- and micro-power plants: why does the Right set a limit of 1 MW in terms of municipalities being able to process mini- and micro-power plants?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e452	Let me first say that it is also important to focus on a local approach to environmental and climate challenges. We also need to act locally. It is Norway's credibility as an international priority country that is at stake, and we are unfortunately far below the goal we have set in the United Kingdom, so local and national approaches to it are needed. Let me also say that I share Andersen's approach that we need more clean energy in Norway, and at the same time we are very lucky because there is already so much of our energy coming from clean energy. For the Right, it is extremely important that the NVE is provided with the resources to deal with applications both within windmills, other renewable energy and also especially in small power plants. Then we have wanted a greater degree of local application process related to small power plants and have set the limit of 1 MW, because we believe that those measures can also have a role that will need national legislation and a national review.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e459	One of the things I'm very pleased with about this government is the policy of tightening up the beach zone. I'm a Vestfold representative, and there we've seen what pressure it is, because plots that are close to the sea are attractive, and because people are pretty strong every now and then. We saw an example that the right knows the price of everything, but not the value of anything, linked among other things. to the East Poles - a case that ended well in the end - and related to many issues, which relate to Westfold, and which concerns a lot of municipalities. Does not the representative of Skovholt Gitmark see that it is necessary to enter into an active state, with an active policy, to ensure that even those who have not been so fortunate that they have inherited a hut, or have so much money that they can buy freedom and access to the beach zone, are protected, and that future generations will also receive a protection that they cannot be guaranteed if the market controls everything?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e466	The President will offer the representative Skovholt Gitmark five more seconds to make suggestions if he wants to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e469	Let me first of all address the proposals to which the Right is either the co-rapporteur or the proposer. Let me also say that I support a beach zone policy that makes the beach zone accessible to everyone, and it is important that the beach zone is just that, in addition to our other important areas, among other things. in the mountains. But at the same time, it should be a high degree of private ownership as well. When the public takes over land in the coastal zone, it must be based on market compensation. It must also be accompanied by money for the maintenance of the same areas. We see along the coast that areas that have been taken over by the public, largely decay and grow again, in other words: the private are now through all-man rights again with less land than they would otherwise have. At the same time, I would like to say that it is important to safeguard municipal autonomy. Local authorities are often best aware of the local situation, and should decide to a much greater extent than today, and especially after today's government took over, in relation to the management of the beach zone. For the beach zone, there must be a strong feature of the rights of all persons, it must be for everyone, but there must also be the possibility of living and having a cabin in the beach zone.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e478	The representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark has taken up the suggestions he referred to. The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e483	The climate debate has come too far. Hopefully, a broader environmental debate will also do that. On the SV side, we're glad that the relationship between what we do out there and at home has been made clear lately. We are delighted that the Government will set aside up to DKK 3 billion a year to preserve the rainforest, because this is an important climate action, important for the poorest in the world and important for biodiversity. But we think it is particularly important that a government that is so clear that Norway should be a leading international nation, also leading by a good example here at home. Therefore, the protection of the Trillemark is so important. In Norway we have 3,800 species on the so-called red list of endangered species. Many species have not even been identified. In the forest protection area established in Trillemarka, a total of 129 species of red-listed species have been registered. These will now be secured. 1 941 species are directly threatened in Norway. The reefs are one of them. Two weeks ago I had the pleasure of visiting the mountain reef project on Varanger peninsula in Finnmark together with the Nature Conservation Association. With dog joints and in 20 minus we went out of the farm inwards the mountain and met some men from the State's natural care - men who stand on every single day for species many have not even heard of, who are out in all kinds of weather to check whether Norway is going a step further in their ambition to deliver the earth in better condition than it was when we took it. Great words that we like to use here on the thing are followed up in practice every single day by dedicated people. It's nice to think about. Another area where there will be greater coherence between words and action is climate policy. We're going to discuss the climate agreement in a few weeks, so I'm going to be very careful to say that the climate communication represented a breakthrough by the fact that for the first time we've fixed the level of domestic reductions and followed up with sectorial climate action plans that make it easier to check whether we're meeting the targets. With the climate agreement, we have further streamlined Norwegian ambitions, and there is agreement on a number of measures that will turn Norway in an environmentally friendly direction. The environmental and climate debates tend to become negative debates about what restrictions need to be imposed on us now and in the future. I think we need to start talking about what opportunities the environmental and climate challenges give us. If we start to convert into an environmentally friendly low-carbon society today, we'll be able to develop thousands of new jobs that are more sustainable, more sustainable and, I think, more district friendly than we've been working on so far. Many who today place their trust in the petroleum industry will have much more to do with environmentally friendly investment in the form of long-term jobs, skills development and less environmental risks. Both coastal fishing, processing, organic farming, new renewable energy, green tourism, local food culture, environmental research and organic farming are examples of future-oriented environmental and industrial policies. The journal Arbeitsliv i Norden has estimated that new renewable energy could provide 425,000 new jobs in the Nordic region. 1 TWh bioenergy can provide 400 permanent jobs. For comparison, 1 TWh produced energy from gas power plants can provide about seven new jobs. In a district policy and environmental perspective, I have no doubt about what I would bet on. Therefore, it is good that our government has made a clear choice in terms of gas and gas power. New gas power plant concessions require CO2 management. Today this is almost taken for granted, but we in SV know what this has required of effort to get it in place. The government has also strengthened the appropriations for new renewable energy, and there will be full pressure in the future. In SV, we are busy getting up a functioning heat market and turning the heat consumption over from electricity from hydropower to other renewable heat like bio. There will soon be a bioenergy strategy to which we have expectations. It is necessary to achieve a boost in energy efficiency and growth. Here, too, there will be new grips in the future. In addition, I would like to highlight the need to manage the labour force from yesterday's industry to tomorrow's. We need the wise minds to develop a competitive green policy for Norway, and then we need to make even more courageous choices. The transport sector is a high-growth sector. A quarter of greenhouse gas emissions come from here. Without restrictive measures and alternative options for people in key strokes, emissions will increase by 40 pst. towards 2020. Several of the largest cities are extremely exposed to pollution, and it is a shame that children in, for example: this city feels that on certain days they must stay indoors because it is dangerous for them to go out. As an active cyclist in the capital, I experience that Oslo is primarily a car city, not a bicycle city. 70 pst. of all journeys in Norway between 1 km and 2 km made by those over 18 years of age who have a driving licence, be carried out by car - 70 pst. In many places in the country where people could have alternatives, public transport is far too poorly developed and too expensive. The site planning is too poor in many places, and the mall is still being built around the house that doesn't give people alternatives other than driving a car if they're going to act there. Here the Government is tightening up its policy. In addition, the largest cities are challenged to cooperate on future cities where a new and environmentally friendly transport policy is one of the areas to be visited by the press. The cities that want to benefit from public transport must be willing to impose restrictions on car traffic as well, because we know that it is not only useful to expand the collective solutions, the aim of which is to reduce climate emissions and local pollution. SV has long been in for a so-called rush-time ticket or free-of-charge ticket. The assumption is that public transport will be expanded first. The experience from Stockholm and London shows that road pricing combined with a strengthening of the collective offer is leading to a marked decline in car use and higher collective shareholdings. But I would warn against doing as the bourgeois government in Sweden: weaken the collective offer after people have given their support to the needy tax, as they call it there, by referendum. The congestion tax was very upsetting. It actually got bigger and bigger because people saw it had good effect. We are about to get a new planning and building law that tightens up the dispensation access in the beach zone. There has already been a new practice from our government in this field, as I mentioned in the reply with the representative Skovholt Gitmark from the Right. As a Westfolding, I am especially pleased with that. We experience in our county a massive privatisation of the beach zone, and ordinary people are pushed out of the finest areas near the sea. On top of this comes a snuff privatisation and, in addition, private purchases or attempts to do so, by e.g. pearls like the East Bolarna. Through massive popular mobilization, we were able to stop just that. Afterwards, our government has gone in with funds to purchase more pearls to free the beach zone for most people. It's about taking responsibility for more than the luckiest and richest to benefit from our common nature, and it's about taking responsibility for future generations - those who don't have the right to vote today. We're about to get a law on natural diversity, a law on marks and a law on motorcycling. A separate waste policy case shall be drawn up, an agreement has been reached to reduce NOx emissions, a forum for environmentally friendly shipping has been established and a green tax exchange is in progress. The species database has been provided with additional means to identify endangered species, and more is to be done for the rocks and for the wild species. An action plan for the sustainable use and care of national parks and other protected areas shall be drawn up. In development, there has been a strong commitment to environmental aid, not least our combined Minister for the Environment and Development. Consumer policy should also have a clearer environmental profile. It's very important, because I think most people are asking for the opportunity to get more information about what kind of goods they can choose from in stores, what's sustainably produced goods, and what's not. I could also mention more than this. I think we are many in Stortinget and in other countries who have an intolerance in the environment and climate. We want most things done ten years ago. Nothing is better than that, and if we manage to reconcile the impatient forces in the future as well, environmental and climate policies will experience a strong rise in the years to come. That's what's needed, because there's a lot of governments and big business here that's neglected. Finally, the State of the Kingdom is a state report that provides an overview of challenges and how the Government intends to meet them in the future. We get a lot of useful information, while clearly it would be an advantage if we had a simple and accessible overview of how the instruments that have been introduced work in relation to the environmental objectives we have adopted. In this way, the debate could become a little less lucrative, and we could get a clarification of what action needs to be taken to achieve the objectives we want. I also clearly support the need for environmental reporting to be coordinated with the reporting by the Ministry of Finance of the National Strategy for Sustainable Development.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e526	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e530	Thorkildsen is familiar with Vestfold's great beach zone problem. Now it's like we're from different counties and different municipalities. Some of us have very good access to areas along the coastline, in the hundred meter belt. As I understand it, the new signals are coming now. In the past, the Government has signalled acceptance for differentiation between different municipalities, press areas, in the new Planning and Building Act - i.e. room for differentiation. Is it then to understand that the Government and Thorkildsen now go beyond the fact that there is a need for differentiation in relation to the needs of the different municipalities and counties?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e535	No, no, no. It is clear that there is a need for a differentiated approach to this. We have a long-term country with different challenges. What is important is to ensure that we, especially where there is a great deal of pressure, care for the majority's need for access to the beach zone, and that we ensure that there is not as much access to exemptions as many municipalities have given today. So the answer is that navigation if the law is not yet presented, it is clear that it will be put up to a differentiated policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e540	I am tempted to ask the representative what she thinks will happen to the prices of properties in the beach zone if you completely remove the new building, but since I already know the answer, I refuse to do so. However, I could imagine a clear response to something that the representative himself also addressed in his speech, namely that the environmental and climate debate is much perceived as a negative debate, and that we need to focus much more on opportunities. The Stern report states that we need to build up the constraints on environmentally friendly behaviour. For many years, the right has promoted a number of positive actions, including: tax incentives, to make people choose more environmentally friendly behaviour. Then my question is: why is SV's approach to these proposals always negative, and why does SV not have one single proposal for tax incentives instead of tax increases?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e549	It is not right, as the representative Gitmark here says, that we never support proposals that stimulate environmentally friendly behaviour. On the contrary, we have made a change in tax policy, which is designed to encourage people to choose environmentally friendly and to punish themselves in an environmentally hostile way. This applies, for example: car taxes, where it is now cheaper to choose the environmentally friendly solutions and more expensive to choose the environmentally hostile ones. Another example is the possibility of running through the bombing for free if, for example: has an electric or hydrogen car, and the possibility to park for free if you have that type of car. Here there are really quite a number of different proposals, those that we have tabled in the past and that we are also in the process of implementing. This is an ongoing work in the Ministry of Finance, which will also continue in the context of the future budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e554	The Christian People's Party believes that today's legislation on the distribution of unaddressed advertising should be mirrored, so that anyone who wishes to receive such advertising must adhere to the sticker with 'Yes, thank you' in the mailbox. Surveys show that up to 80 pst. by the population will not hang such a mark. The amendment of the marketing law in line with the ‘yes, thank you’ principle will result in a significant reduction in the amount of waste in addition to environmental savings in the form of reduced production and distribution of advertising material. Here is my question: How does SV propose to change the provisions of the Marketing Act relating to the distribution of unaddressed advertising in line with the ‘yes, thank you’ principle?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e559	SV is in favour of that very proposal. In addition to the fact that, in our opinion, it is a good suggestion that instead of doing what many people have done, namely hanging a no-tank sticker on the mailbox if you do not want advertising, we should also have the mirroring principle - as the representative points out - that we have also raised questions relating to telephone sales, that instead of having to reserve it, you could register in a base if you wanted to be an object for telephone sales. Then the situation is that it's not the government's policy. It's not in the Soria Moria statement, and that's why it's an action that I think we need to work with in the longer term to get a majority in favour. Because I think in the population there is great sympathy for this very proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e566	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e569	I will first address the joint proposals from the Left and Christian People's Party. The Government makes the following statement of programme in the introductory part of the Storing Message: «The government will ensure that environmental protection remains in place there» — i.e. At the top of the political agenda, ‘by making Norway a leading country in environmental protection policy and an example for other countries. We will address the major challenges and design actions and instruments that deliver results. We will have economic development and increased well-being, but the environment will not pay the price." These words obligate. As of today, Norway is far from being the country in which the government says we're going to be. Norway has long been a bad example for other countries in environmental policy. Today, our greenhouse gas emissions are more than four times as high as in China, if we calculate emissions per capita. Greenhouse gas emissions continue to increase. Norway is a major exporter of fossil energy in the form of oil and gas, which, together with coal, is the main cause of global warming problems. Norway is far from the target of halting biodiversity loss by 2010. We are not able to meet the commitment in the Gothenburg Protocol to reduce NOx emissions. Growth in consumption is increasing for each day, with subsequent increases in the amount of waste. Until now, the environment has paid a large part of the price of economic development and increased welfare in Norway. The government says in this message that they're going to reverse this development. The Christian People's Party shall participate in ensuring that this not only becomes fine words, but a commitment to the Government shall be tested year by year. There is a broad consensus, including in the United Kingdom, that the threat of global climate change is the greatest political challenge of our time. The Christian People's Party is pleased that a broad majority in the United Kingdom has managed to unite on a settlement on climate policy. The agreement, which was signed on 16 January, provides the basis for what will be Norway’s climate policy in the years to come. The negotiations based on the Climate Communication and the 61 demands of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have resulted in significantly more ambitious and binding policies in the climate field than the Government had initially set up. The follow-up to the agreement will be demanding but will be implemented. In the future, more and more targeted measures will be required to achieve the climate objectives than the agreement provides. The Christian People's Party shall be a driving force in this work, whether we are in opposition or in position. Local air pollution is a major problem, especially in the big cities. The government introduced a reduced annual tax for diesel cars with factory-mounted particulate filters in the State budget for 2008. This is a good measure, but not enough. The Christian People's Party believes that the Government must also introduce particle filter requirements in all new diesel cars to protect the local environment of urban areas. It is also appropriate to provide for an aid scheme for the retrofitting of particulate filters in old diesel cars, with a subsequent reduction in the annual tax. In order to further intensify efforts against local air pollution, municipalities should be allowed to introduce low-emission zones in areas to reduce local air pollution. The Christian People's Party is on the predatory settlement adopted in the Stortinget in the spring of 2004. Norway has an obligation under the Berne Convention to ensure the survival of all the major predatory species in Norwegian nature. It is important to reduce the level of conflict in predatory policies, which precise monitoring data and good stock records will help. Following the agreement on predators, the population of predators has increased significantly in Sweden, and there is reason to believe that this could eventually lead to a similar increase in the Norwegian border municipalities. The predatory agreement does not include the cross-border flocks in the national stock target for wolves. If this population grows in such a way that most of the wolf population will be outside national administration, there will be a breach of an important prerequisite for the conclusion of the settlement. The Government should therefore come to the Grand Duchy with proposals for action if this is to happen. At the same time, the Christian People's Party will underline the important function of emergency protection in order to increase security in situations where predators become too close. In the view of the Christian People's Party, any change in Section 11 of the Civil Protection Act concerning emergency workers, as notified by the Government, must cover all the large predators in this country. By means of the Gothenburg Protocol, Norway is obliged to reduce emissions of long-range transport pollution. As it looks today, Norway will not be able to reduce emissions of NOx to the extent that we are obliged to, by 2010. The recently negotiated agreement between the country and 14 trade organisations is good, but it is too late. Until today, the government has invested everything on a non-functioning NOx tax. Had the red-greens followed up the Bondevik II government's strategy, such as: provided for direct impositions and requirements financed through third-party solutions, Norway would probably be much closer to fulfilling our commitments under the Gothenburg Protocol. The Christian People's Party wants to use fiscal policy to stimulate more environmentally friendly behaviour. Green tax exchange is an effective way to phase out environmentally harmful consumption. We hope to see this clearly in the next government budget proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e602	The representative John Thune has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e607	In this matter as in a number of other important environmental matters, we are witnessing that the Christian People's Party is closer to today's government than they are to the Advance Party. That's good, especially for the environment. Left Party leader Lars Sponheim has given the Norwegian people a clear and clear message that some future government cooperation with the Progress Party is out-of-date, among others. Because the distance from environmental policy is too great. On that occasion, I wonder whether the Christian People's Party can be as clear on this issue as the Left Party. Or is it so that perhaps sitting in a power position means so much to the Christian People's Party that the environmental policy of the future becomes the loser?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e614	No matter what position the Christian People's Party is in, we're going to take care of the environment. We want to make sure that. I think it's the most important thing. To advance what government the Christian People's Party is going to go into the future, I'm not doing here. But we're going to take care of the environment anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e620	Like the Center Party, the Christian People's Party is busy with a good environmental policy, and they are to be commended for their commitment to the environment. My question is also about cooperation with other parties. There's a two-part question. The one thing is: is the environment so important to the Christian People's Party that it will have consequences for which party they well cooperate with in the future? And question two: Does the representative believe that the good environmental solutions exist in cooperation with the primary Right Party and the Progress Party or with the government constellation that is now in power?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e627	I think that the climate agreement we have now reached, well also says his/her about whom we work best with. Connecting this to government now seems to me to be too early. But we're going to make the climate deal that's been made. What we're doing, and that's what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e632	I would also like to ask the representative of Thune about something related to the climate agreement, and that concerns the municipalities. If we are to achieve the targets that we have set nationally on reducing greenhouse gas emissions, we need to have the municipalities with us, and there is a Christian People's Party in key positions around the country. I think it is extremely important that we from Stortinget too put pressure on and inspire our local representatives, so that they too address the challenge of another transport policy, land policy, waste policy, energy policy and procurement policy - that is, the many areas to be addressed by municipalities. Then really is the question of whether the Christian People's Party will be a driver, no matter who they cooperate with locally, in order to bring about really offensive climate action plans in all municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e639	The simple answer is yes. The more complementary is that over the last few years we have had many environmental plans in some municipalities where the Christian People's Party has been active, and we're going to be active in many others still. In some municipalities a lot has happened in the areas of energy saving and local combustion plants, which means that they have received district heating and saved a lot of oil emissions. I come from a municipality where we have reduced CO2 emissions by 4 pst. Calculated per month incorporates due to those arrangements. So that's where we'll contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e649	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e652	The announcement of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state is a particularly comprehensive one. It addresses everything from cultural memory and landscape protection to consumption, climate challenges and transport – a theme that is all important, but on which there is no time to go into detail in such a brief article. So I want to use the time to deepen the Central Party's approach to some of the questions raised in the message. The central party's starting point is the administration idea, the idea that the values that we value in society, the well-managed nature, the cultural landscape and the culture that we have inherited from those who preceded us are to be passed on to the next generation in at least the same condition. All developments must be viable. The resource use beyond what is viable is a run from people in other places in the world, or from those who come after us. This requires good and responsible management, more proper consumption rather than greater consumption and good technology solutions used in the right way. It requires a better use of resources and conservation of nature, cultural landscapes and viable communities, local communities with the intention and ability to manage their own development. The communication on the state of the state of the state of the kingdom reminds us of something we have achieved in environmental policy, but also of what challenges we face. Good environmental and nature management requires local anchoring and involvement. Without local communities taking an active part in the preservation of important natural and cultural landscape values, we will not be able to sustain them. In nature management, it must therefore be a goal to play with the local population and to have good and locally anchored processes around the measures. Our marine areas are extremely vulnerable. Developments in the North Sea Basin are disturbing. Small fish populations and low recruitment indicate that developments in this sea area are moving in a direction that we don't want. We need more knowledge about this, as the majority in the committee also points to in the setting. Arctic ice melting is not just a threat to biological deficiency. It also increases the likelihood of more transport along the northern corridors, thereby increasing the risk of accidents with consequences for the environment. The center party is aware that we have an oil preparedness and a tug-boat readiness that is adapted to the future challenges we are facing in this area. The international climate challenges make us from the Center Party's side think it's necessary to do a green trick. The climate message currently being handled by Stortinget is a correct step in this direction. The production of new energy is one of the most important tasks for Norway in this task. It also gives us challenges. The centre party thinks we need to have an active, but good natural management, which allows us to extract more of the great potential we have before the production of renewable energy. Then we must also take on board some priorities that open up to this. It is not possible to be burning for wind power, but to be against the establishment of windmills. It is not possible to speak hot for the expansion of hydropower, but it is not possible to allow projects of minor expansions in our watercourse. It is not possible to travel around and ‘preach’ on bioenergy, bioheat and forest as a resource, but to oppose the construction of the infrastructure needed to extract these resources. I note that there are some who are trying on such a strategy. The centre party wants to increase the production of renewable energy and is willing to manage nature in such a way that we can draw more of the potential we have in this area. We believe it is possible before good and defensive nature management. Then I finally want to refer to the offensive environmental policy that the government is pursuing, and that makes the red-green government the most offensive environmental and climate government this country has ever had.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e675	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e678	I have to start by saying that I wish I had more than one question, but it's not safe for me to get. So the center party is talking -- in an article about a lot of traditional center parties -- very little about just these things. This despite the fact that a popular uprising is taking place today against the government's foreign policy in large parts of the country. Some of the things people are cursed at the Government for are the hundred meters belt, predatory policies, the management of protected areas, etc. Now we heard that even the Christian People's Party believes that a new emergency section should deal with all large predators, and I would also believe the defense of my own dog. Can the Senterpartiet then accept the needy paragraph, which has been promised in the Soria Moria Declaration, which does not deal with all the large predators?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e687	The policy on predatory animals has been established by means of an agreement on predators in the Grand Duchy and continued in the Government Declaration. The representative, Lien and I could probably be some of the things that predatory politics might have had a different linguistic design if it were the game program for our two parties that were at the heart of it. But also the Center Party has to take over, as the Progress Party often feels, that the majority in this Chamber wants a different policy. Then we are busy being offensive and working for adaptation within that policy to facilitate those who live and feed in the areas where this is a conflict. Then I have to say that the paradox we're up against is that the Progress Party's predatory policy is not the solution to the predatory problem. What would have been an effective solution to the predatory challenges would have been that the Progress Party had implemented its agricultural policy. Then one would have efficiently removed all the grazing animals from these areas. So we'd be rid of the problem, but it's not a policy that the Center Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e694	There's been a discussion about the beach zone in the past. There have been a lot of clear signals from the government parties - among others. from the 'coming man' in the Centre Party, Ola Borten Moe, who is now head of the nutrition committee - to liberalise - liberalize, Mr. President - the administration of the 100 meter belt. The rules of the Law on the Law on the Beach Zone are thus to be liberalised in Utmarks-Norway, outside the press areas. Today, there are signals from Inga Marte Thorkildsen and Tore Nordtun that a tightening should be made. Does this mean that the Central Party has now accepted that what to do is tighten up the press areas and maintain today's hopeless policies in peripheral areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e699	The representative I know well about Borten Moe, and I know his point of view in these matters. What the representative Borten Moe has said is that this country looks very different, depending on the cows in the country a cage and lives. Therefore, one must have a law that takes a height for precisely that there are different challenges depending on where in the country a cage is. If the representative, Mr. Tord Lien, asks me whether I am staging the degradation that is taking place in the press areas, the degradation that we are witnessing from the beach son of the press area, the answer to that is no. The center part doesn't want to build up every millimeter of the beach son. We want a policy to adapt that geography looks different if one is in the interior of Oslofjord or in Sogn and Fjordane or in the representative Lien's county.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e705	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e708	The treatment of the State Environmental State Communication is characterised by the fact that there has been a parallel treatment of the Government’s Climate Communication. Many of the issues raised in the state of the country's environment have also been the subject of climate communication and negotiations. What we can say is that in the last few months, while the Committee on Energy and the Environment has dealt with the climate communication and the Communication on the State of the Environment, environmental policy in Norway has become more ambitious, and we have put in place more effective instruments to achieve the objectives we set for key environmental areas. There is a positive stock after half a year of work in the United Kingdom with important environmental issues. I note with satisfaction that the Left, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Right, has the power to move the Government on important environmental issues. In this connection, it was interesting to read an interview with SV’s local representative Hallgeir Langeland in Stavanger Aftenblad. It was essentially an article of everything that was bad and looked at by the government, which concluded that he saw the need to discuss government issues now, and he kept open the possibility that SV should conclude with no to the question of whether to continue in government. What was the light in Hallgeir Langeland’s political life was a strong satisfaction with the climate agreement. He said he was pleased that the opposition helped SV to put in place a more ambitious climate policy. I hope it's a pleasure that the council shares with Hallgeir Langeland. It is also in this that we have had to help SV convince some of the people they are working with in the government. I also state that the Minister for the Environment has said that he is tired of having to spend a lot of time correcting old environmental sins. It is in reality a ramsal criticism of his own boss, Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg. For there are some who are responsible for old environmental sins that have been up to date in recent times, and it is Jens Stoltenberg. It was he and his chief of staff at SMK, Schjött-Pedersen, who tailored the regime that made it possible with the Snow White extension, which has caused major environmental problems lately. It was Stoltenberg who insisted on overthrowing a government, because a gas power plant was to be built on Kårstø without cleaning. It was Jens Stoltenberg, and also Erik Solheim, who insisted on scrapping a set of green certificates that have made us largely stationary in the development of renewable energy sources in Norway for two years. So the environmental sins that now have to be corrected are caused by the Workers' Party and workers' party-driven governments. In one area, I see that the Council of State is in danger of going the other way. Instead of correcting errors, he takes an area where there has been a clear environmental policy and creates confusion. I'm thinking about the Snow Home Road. It was considered a positive breakthrough for the environment that Snowheim Road, also mentioned in the Committee’s position, was to be removed as part of the rehabilitation of this area. Following the examination in the Committee and following the response of the Council of State to the Committee, there is full misconception as to what is to be done with this way forward. I hope that the Council of State will take advantage of the opportunity in its contribution to establish that this path will be removed, as the previous government has provided. It is also a major problem in environmental policy that there is no match between what one says one should do and what one actually does. We see it, among other things. with regard to the provision of oil protection equipment, etc. I want to point to an area that has received too little attention, and it is open-air, where this government should have positive publicity, because the increased allocations for securing areas. However, there is considerable backlog in terms of funds for oversight and funds for activity related to the outdoor sector. It would be positive if an open-air policy rebalanced in the 2009 budget by increasing the allocations for area management and activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e725	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e728	The representative Kvassheim made a contribution where he concentrated on a little bit of narrow areas. It was a little unexpected on my part. We know, of course, that Kvassheim and his party have been hardworking and hardworking environmentalists, and they deserve to be praised for it. I would like to challenge the representative on something else if that's okay, in relation to what he had in his post. We know that with regard to the use of environmentally friendly biofuels/biofuels, the Left has been a driver in that matter. After all, some information has come to suggest that the production of different types of biofuels is not environmentally friendly at all. We also see that food soils and production soils are used and replaced by the production of food, so that food prices and such things increase. Then my question to the representative of Kvassheim is: does the Left look a little more nuanced on this by using agricultural land, for example. to produce what is called environmentally friendly fuel/fuel?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e735	Now it is enough that the Left's policy in general is somewhat more nuanced than that of the Progress Party. It looks like this area, and it looks like other areas. It's just like this is saying, that it's not like all biofuels are produced in an environmentally friendly and good way, but a lot of it is. It is therefore important to put in place a certification system that ensures that the good solutions are selected and that they are stimulated and lifted. I was recently a few days ago visiting a waste area at Lillehammer, where one plans to produce biodiesel based on waste gases from the landfill. There are also many examples of wood that can be produced well, but it is important to have a certification system. Then I also register with wondering that the representative Andersen says that I stuck to the narrow areas in my post. I had climate policy in a broad sense as a main entry point in the article, but I note that it sees the Progress Party as a narrow environmental area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e744	Yesterday I attended a meeting with the Skogeigar Association, where they made it clear that if one were to realise the offensive objectives we have, among other things. for the production of bioenergy and bioheat from forest, we need to build infrastructure that will get us out of the forest. It was the most important tool. In the setting, the Left points to the impending Minister of Agriculture Lars Sponheim removing the possibility of tax advantages in the construction of forest roads. The Left Party adopted such an anti-environmental policy in the context of the 2007 state budget. My question is, is it a goal for the Left that one should increase the production of bioenergy and bioheat from forests, or is it just party speakers? And if it is, does forestry take the wrong place in that there is infrastructure that is needed to extract more forest for such production?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e753	The answer to the question is yes. The left is to make use of biomass for energy production and contributed significantly to it in the previous government. But unlike the Center Party, which acts as a special interest when discussing forest policy, the Left is an environmental party that takes full account of it. This is why both biodiversity and forest access must be taken into account. Therefore, there is reason to congratulate the Centre Party on having an impact in the Government in order to build on narrow forest interests. Therefore, one has changed those tax arrangements. One has again opened up investment in the way, to great despair for the environmental movement. But it's possible to combine these considerations, and that's the Left's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e758	If the representative Hallgeir Langeland from Rogaland were to be in doubt as to whether it is right for SV to be in the government, we can at least rejoice that the representative Kvassheim is not in doubt that it is positive to have SV in the government. The message that came out after the climate agreement was at least that the left was satisfied that SV was in government. The representative of Kvassheim was involved in many relationships with the Workers' Party. Then I'd like to bring out a friend of the representative Kvassheim, the party on the right. In this setting, you will find the right hand side of many areas along with the Progress Party. We know that the Right has a very old-fashioned approach to petroleum policy in particular. One of the comments made by the Right is that the global CO2 emissions should not be allowed to interfere with the construction of new gas power plants in Norway. How has the Left intend to manage to prevent the Right from implementing this?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e768	We want to do as we did when we were in government: we created a platform and decided that we would not be allowed to build gas power plants without CO2 handling. We practiced that. We did not grant any new permits for the construction of gas power plants in addition to what was described in the government statement. We conducted that policy in cooperation with the Right, as opposed to today's government, which delivers something quite different from what it promised in the case of Mongstad, and which promised to clean up Kårstø in 2009. Now we know that will happen a lot later. In practice, through cooperation on the climate agreement, the Right has shown that together we were able to concentrate on a significantly more ambitious climate policy than the government parties were. I am absolutely convinced that it has not been on SV, but in internal cooperation relations in the Government, SV does not have a clear view of the Workers' Party and the Center Party to get through to what we have been able to achieve in the Stortinget with our right back.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e778	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e781	I want to use my article to comment on some of the issues that have emerged in the debate. Let me start with the contribution from the committee leader, Gunnar Kvassheim, who is of course quite right that this last year has been a dramatic change both in Norway and globally in terms of the environment. From being a topic far below the political agenda, which, particularly globally, but also in Norway, was handled by environmental protection specialists, Norway and internationally have moved up in the political first division: it is now a top theme in all contexts. As an example, I can mention that last week the Foreign Minister came back from China and told them that the Chinese leaders were now talking about CCS, carbon, capture and storage, as if it were a matter of course. I'm sure the Chinese leaders hadn't heard of this term either as late as a year ago. It just shows how dramatic it's all been moved. This has led to many shifts in Norwegian policy in a more positive direction in the last year. It has a part of the honor for it, and it has a part of the honor for it. The entry here today from representatives of the government parties refers to the fullness and clarity of all government parties on this. In all modesty: former state councillor Helen Bjørnøy has also requested little of the credit for this. However, I am not so much concerned with who has the honor, and even less of who is responsible for all the past deeds, which the committee's chairman seems very concerned about. In the case of Snow White, which is the leading example you've drawn out, there are only two parties that are the innocents. It's the Center Party and the SW. But how far we come with a debate about who has an absolutely flawless past in this matter, when the Snow White field is expanded, costs 50-60 billion kroner and has major emissions problems, is something else. At least I want to spend my time and energy looking forward, looking at how we can solve the problems, and not assign blame and honor to the past. I would like to thank you for your excellent cooperation in the context of the climate agreement. Then Peter Skovholt pointed Gitmark at what's the big global problem. That's how we're going to get the dramatic economic growth that the world needs, that all the poor countries of the world want, and that they're begging and asking for every day, but without the emissions that industrialism has now given. We have succeeded quite well in some areas. The Montreal Protocol on the Ozone Layer is a good example of this. The Gothenburg process in the case of NOx is another example. The car industry, for example, has progress towards the removal of NOx emissions from new cars. But we haven't gotten far in terms of CO2 and the emissions that give rise to the global climate crisis. That's the big challenge we're facing globally. Pure energy as a vision for the globe is central. CO2 capture and storage must be part of the solution when such a large part of global emissions come from coal, oil and gas. The EU has said that there should be 10-15 carbon capture and storage pilot projects within the EU. That's a brilliant vision. What we do on Kårstø and Mongstad, fits into that picture. The Americans are now working on their projects in West Virginia. Overall, this could be sufficient projects to succeed. I think it's most likely that someone else will land on the moon first, because everything indicates that doing something easier in terms of coal, than in terms of oil and gas. When we "land on the moon" with the Mongstad project, it may be that someone is standing there and is Armstrong already, but now let it be a minor problem. The most important thing is that the globe solves this problem, that we get this to both in terms of oil, gas and coal. The next week is the Global Meeting of Environment Ministers in Monaco. I would like to take up these themes with full force there, in order to try to create as broad and broad a connection as possible to the idea of CO2 capture and storage and clean energy. I would also like to point out that those working on the UN Environment Programme have a problem now, because the political crisis in Kenya can make their work more difficult, since they are based in Nairobi. Then the debate points to the fact that the Progress Party is all alone. The intervention of the party representative in this debate was a single, coherent argument against environmental protection. At every point, they argued against it. No mention was made of what the Progress Party will contribute to improve environmental protection in Norway. I was in America recently. Now everyone with political significance has accepted that the globe is being warmed up, that it is due to human pollution, and that the task is to do something about it. John McCain, who is probably the Presidential candidate closest to the Advancement Party, is crystal clear. George Bush is just as ready. Governor Schwarzenegger in California is even clearer. Even on the right-hand side of the United States, there is now competition about who is the most clear on this issue. So the next question of course is, what do you do with that? Here in Norway we have a party where the Vice-Chairman, Per Sandberg, travels along the whole of the Sørland coast and tells him to win voters by telling people that the Progress Party gives the bluff in the climate. In an article here today, point by point was argued against environmental protection instead of arguing for. Then we're told that the answer to the question that the whole world has now answered, the Progress Party will give in four weeks. In the meantime, they shall win pickers on the opposite side. That answer must soon be available. Pepsi Cola is far ahead of the Advance Party in recognition of this. Maybe it should be a thinker. How long will the Advance Party be in the club of those who believe that the earth is flat? So biodiversity and Trillemarka. Just to have said it: I am pleased that there is a great deal of excitement about the government's goal of halting the loss of biodiversity. As far as Trillemarka is concerned, we need to engage in dialogue with the municipalities in order to operate the protection in the most gentle way. We provide significant support for local industry funds. The big vision is to get much more voluntary protection. That's where I share the opinion of the majority of the population. This concerns voluntary protection on a state-wide basis, voluntary protection within the church forests and voluntary protection on a private basis. I want to remind Stortinget that this is going to cost. I am asking for the drive and drive from Stortinget to ensure that we get the money that it costs to make protection on a voluntary basis, with full compensation for the landowners. Another important issue that the Committee has been dealing with is NOx emissions. We have signed an agreement with 14 business organisations to reduce NOx emissions in Norway by 30,000 tonnes and to comply with the Gothenburg Protocol. This is a brilliant agreement, which, if we succeed with it, can become a model for other environmental agreements. We are voluntary in a process of business, and it may also contribute to the necessary development of environmental technologies in Norway that we all want. Following a pattern from the management plans for the Barents Sea and the Lofoten, we will draw up comprehensive management plans for the Norwegian Sea by 2009 and for the North Sea by 2015. We will work hard with the United Nations Maritime Organisation, the IMO, to reduce climate emissions and other emissions from shipping. An important theme is to get shipping into the international quota system. It is a difficult and complicated task, but Norway will tackle it and go to the top. Another theme is ballast water, which poses a risk of spreading alien species to Norwegian waters. We will now prepare a draft national regulation requiring ballast water management in the period until we have international agreements in this area. Environmental toxins are an important topic as well as climate and biodiversity. Norway is working closely towards the EU. EU REACH legislation is the most advanced tool we have in this area, but Norway can go ahead in some demarcated areas and go beyond what the EU has done. We want to combine the close international work with the EU in this area with national action in terms of individual products and individual toxins, which will allow us to go further. Let me then make a comment on the debate between Mr Sande and Mr Lien on protection in the coastal zone. It was also quite right that the representative, Mr Sande, said that before the Progress Party had completed its agricultural policy, the party was hardly justified in terms of predatory policy. Because what the point of protecting sheep in District Norway from predators is when the threat from the agricultural policy of the Progress Party is incredibly much greater, I don't understand. The current debate, however, was on the coastal zone. Let it be clear: the government's policy is two-fold and differentiated. We want a tougher policy for protecting the beach zone in the areas where the beach zone is threatened. This is along the Sørland coast, the Oslo fjord and the coast around the major urban areas of Norway. We do not need the same policy in Vikna or in Loppa as we need in Kragerø or in Lillesand. We will come up with a proposal for a regulation that provides a completely different protection - clearer and tougher - of the coastal zone in the densely populated areas, where it must be protected. Of course, it should not make it more difficult to set up a river bridge in Vikna, in Loppa, in Havøysund or along the Sogn and Fjordane coasts. This differentiation helps us to see what Norway is like. I would like to invite the Progress Party to cooperate on how we can also protect common people, common peoples, the right to move in the beach zone, along the Oslo fjord, without a meeting an endless series of boundaries. We're going to have a differentiated, nuanced policy that recognises how varied and how large our country is, with different approaches to the Oslo Earth and elsewhere in the country. I had several things, but I might get back to that in the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e849	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e852	I almost got to thank the State Council for spending more time talking about the Progress Party than about the Government's environmental policy in its contribution. I appreciate it so much. A policy has been established to protect 5 pst. of the productive forest in Norway. In Middle Norway this will result in 25-30 pst. of the mature forest will not be available for the next 20 years at most. At the same time, there are clear signals from the Government that there is no longer any desire to provide State aid or to open up the use of forest funds for measures that reduce the non-interventional nature. So this is what we're talking about in influenza areas that cover 62 pst. of the area of Norway. If there was no longer any opportunity to build a forest road on 62 pst. of the area of Norway, it would be serious and would weaken access to highly mature forests. Can the Council of State order the Government to consider the introduction of such legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e859	I want to focus on the answer to the first question that was asked, namely why I spend so much time at the Progress Party in my post. This is because the Progress Party may be Norway's biggest environmental problem, and I will explain why. I heard Professor Jørgen Randers, head of the Low-Emission Committee, speak at the Business Institute this week. He said that the costs of solving the climate problems are very small, as the representative of Skovholt Gitmark was also involved. If we do this now, the costs will be a microscopic part of gross domestic product a few years in advance, so there are small costs. But we are facing a huge decision-making crisis, because resistance to some of the things we have to do is being mobilized. When we have a Norwegian party that sees it as its life's task to travel around and mobilize all the pockets of resistance that need to be found somewhere in the country, against several of the measures that one has to do, it is in itself a significant Norwegian environmental problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e866	The tax system must be turned from red taxes to green taxes. In reply to my reply to the representative, Thorkildsen, she took part in the meeting. raise the car charges. The right-hand approach is that we need safer and more environmentally friendly cars, and that's what we need to use the charging system to do. That was also the reason why the Right introduced a private proposal where we wanted an environmental component or a CO2 component, which was also followed up by the Government in its 2007 state budget proposal. So my question is: if we now establish that we want to get up the sale of more environmentally friendly cars at the expense of existing petrol and diesel cars, then the Council of State wants to press its own finance minister to facilitate a charging system that sufficiently rewards the positive aspects of e.g.: flexible, hydrogen or hybrid cars? And: does the Council of State want to make this system so predictable that people dare to buy a car by knowing pretty much what the disposal price will be?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e876	I just want to remind you first that of course it is the Minister of Transport who has the formal responsibility for this, but my answer to the general question is yes; we need a transition to be premiered if you buy the environmentally friendly cars. They will go down in price, and the price of the more environmentally damaging will go up. The finance minister had a consultation round with environmental organisations just about green tax exchange this week, and we use the term ‘from blue to green taxes’, but now let it go. Yes, we want such a conversion. So, of course, there's a lot of technical questions about this, which we can come back to, but we'll see in the budget for the autumn whether we can't get significantly any longer in such a conversion. I also agree with the point made by the representative Gitmark that there must be predictability in this for the negotiators, for the industry and for the people most. If you know that it changes in six months or a year, it's clear that it doesn't give you the right incentives.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e883	Cultural memories are an important part of society's common memory. It is therefore important to ensure the restoration of cultural memories and reduce their losses. The main features of cultural memory policy up to 2020 were drawn up in St.meld. No 16 for 2004–2005, Living with cultural memories, promoted by the Bondevik II Government. In the examination of the cultural memory announcement, the Stortinget took a decision inviting the Government to step up the fund capital of Norwegian cultural memory funds, reaching DKK 1.4 billion during 2009. The fund's capital is today at approx. NOK 1 billion, and the Government proposed no increase in fund capital in the budget for the current year. Can the Council of State here and now assure that the Government will follow up the decision of the Storting to increase the fund capital of the Norwegian Cultural Memory Fund to DKK 1.4 billion?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e892	First, I would like to thank Mr Thune for including cultural memories in this debate. It's so incredibly easy to be forgotten. I also had something about it in my script, but I felt that I had to put the Advance Party in place a little, and then it wasn't the things I was told. Cultural memories are easy to forget. There are significant challenges to the decay of Norwegian cultural memories. The World Times recently had a look up about it, and it's a theme that we'll try to do more with. With regard to the specific issue of the Cultural Memory Fund, which I noticed is that the Committee is also widely involved, I will come back to it in the budget. But I would very much like to invite the Christian People's Party and the opposition to a broad cooperation on a stronger protection of cultural memories in Norway. We have an incredible number of beautiful cultural memories across the whole country. Some of them are in good condition, but some are also in decay.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e901	Tomorrow, the government-appointed Thorium Committee will present its position. There was great enthusiasm in the thorium lobby when the government chose to go to the step of appointing a sample, and there are created expectations. In the view of the Left, there is no country in Europe that is less able to build nuclear power plants than Norway, and there is hardly any country that has less reason to invest in nuclear power in energy policy than Norway. In our opinion, the division of labour in terms of economic and technological resources should be linked to CO2 capture and e.g. against large-scale offshore mill production. In the Left, we're going to be crystal clear on a no to nuclear power in Norwegian energy policy in the time to come. Can we expect the government to be as ready?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e911	Of course, we want to wait for what comes in the setting from the Thorium committee, but I share a lot of the views of the representative Kvassheim. Now let the sample present its setting, and let's see what they've come up with, so we can get a more informed debate. More knowledge about a theme will always be of the good. Many of the major objections to nuclear power seem to exist. We are very far from being able to have a clean thorium power plant where you don't have to use uranium. Then the issue of proliferation hazards to nuclear weapons will still exist. I also fully agree with the main point of view that this is not an area where we have some special competence. Norway has significant competence in and builds up CO2 capture and storage. I believe it is natural for us to build up corresponding windmills, not least windmills at sea. We should concentrate on international work sharing where we can make a special contribution. It is very difficult to see that Norway has a wide environment of engineers and others who were going to tell Norway to do so in that particular area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e923	Then I'll try again. Now I have taken note of the question. Can the Council of State order the Government to make 62 pst. of Norway’s area inaccessible to forestry and hydroelectric development by imposing a ban on the use of State aid and forest funds in the influencing areas of non-interventional areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e930	No, we have no ambition to do 62 pst. by Norway not available, either. This is the opposite of the current issue in Norway today, which is that we have very few areas that are inaccessible and to which the general public does not have wide access. The opposite of what's being warned here is the main problem itself. If we look at maps of areas in Norway that are at a certain distance from the nearest road, the disappearing few are compared to what it was. The Government announces a review of the Forest Road Construction Grants Code and the consideration of non-interventional natural areas will be assessed in this context. Of course - and I think that's obvious - 62 pst will not. Norway is made inaccessible to anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e936	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e939	The State Council of Solheim brought in an alarming aggressive attack on the Progress Party in its intervention. I think this was somewhat unfair. The Progress Party has noticed that the Government wants Norway to be a leading country in environmental policy and that we need to pursue an environmental policy that protects both nature, human beings, health and life. In my view, these are good objectives, but it obviously requires us to strike the right balance between several different societal considerations. One very good thing that I want to highlight in this setting is that an overall committee indicates that it is the municipalities that have the primary responsibility for land management in Norway. It is believed that municipalities can benefit from greater responsibility and decision-making power over land issues. This is very good. In this context, the Progress Party is strongly committed to giving each municipality greater municipal autonomy in as many areas as possible, and increasing municipal autonomy in planning and land-use matters should, in the view of the Progress Party, be an obvious consequence of such an overall assessment as we heard here. This refers to the right to decide on construction matters in the hundred metres belt by sea or watercourses, the right to allow recreational services in loop networks within their own municipal boundaries, or to exercise concession authority in matters relating to the construction of smaller hydroelectric power stations in unregulated watercourses. In the case of watercourse and coniferous protection, or any other form of protection of Norwegian nature, this should be exercised very carefully and avoided, for example. landowner conflicts as high as possible. The Progress Party has noticed that the global focus has become more prominent in this big message. Climate change, deforestation and forest protection are both important issues in the Communication. This is quite correct in itself, because Norway is clearly part of our planet, both on good and bad. But here in Norway, we've been proving for hundreds of years that we can use our natural resources and take care of our nature in a pretty good way. So we must not get there that our nature should not be touched by humans. This interaction between nature and humans has long traditions in Norway. Norwegians are nature-loving people who know how to live, harvest, use and appreciate our nature in the best way during the summer and all year round. We must not impose too many unnecessary restrictions on the natural use of Norwegian nature, for society is hardly served by an excessive protection regime in Norwegian outland in the future. In an international perspective, cooperation in following climate change closely is important. Safeguarding the development of marine and terrestrial areas and developing good and efficient environmental technologies are also important. We all live on the same planet. What is happening in India, in China or in other countries also concerns all of us who live in Norway, and in Europe, therefore we must cooperate internationally. In a global perspective, we know what significant increases in energy consumption in the world are facing in the coming years. Only in the next 25 years can we expect maybe more than 50 pst. increase in world energy consumption. The development of environmentally friendly energy use as well as better clean-up technologies is a common challenge for all countries in this energy growth perspective. The foreseeable increase in energy consumption in the world, together with a notable population growth in many countries, will significantly increase the pressure on earth's natural resources in the future. Both energy production and a well-developed waste sorting and recycling system are an integral part of Norway’s efforts to preserve nature and the environment. I am pleased that we in Norway have a strong focus on nature and the environment. Without this, our quality of life, our standard of living, and -- I kept saying -- the material foundation of the country's inhabitants would be considerably reduced in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e960	I could so far join the last speaker and applauded and said that I was 100 pst. Agree, and then just walk quietly down, but I don't want to. In the case of St.meld. No 26 for 2006-2007 on the environment policy of the government and the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of affairs, it is a very important thing to look into what the state is today and how we want the future to be. Many areas and almost all levels of government, including private industry and the individual in our society, are affected by the communication. The environment in both national and global contexts is what concerns people most. Let me take an example from the close things. After some enquiries regarding the labelling of packaging and in which the waste fraction is to be placed, I asked a written question to the Minister for the Environment and Development. I would quote from both questions and answers. The question was simply: ‘Does the Council intend to take initiatives against producers of goods and packaging so that all packaging is clearly marked in relation to the waste fraction in which it is to be placed?’ The reason for this is simply that there are many people who want to make their contribution. It is just that the telephone directory has been easy to get into the paper waste, while it is going into the waste, because it is recycled and is not going to be used again. There are some such misunderstandings, so people just get a little confused. Then I get the answer from the Council of State: «In the packaging sector, the Ministry of the Environment has concluded agreements with the industry in which the industry undertakes to work to optimise packaging use...». In addition, it says: ‘By means of agreements, the Ministry of the Environment gives industry the freedom to choose for themselves the measures they consider most appropriate to achieve the objectives.’ In addition, the Council of State states: ‘I share your view that it is important for consumers to receive guidance so that they can make environmentally sound choices. Detailed national marking requirements’, etc. And then the Council of State is afraid to impose too stringent demands on the industry in relation to what it wants. I must say, I'm a little surprised, that a government council responsible for the environment, which also represents SV, which is at least not unknown to come up with directives on both the one hand and the other, does not see the value of us asking for information as individuals. Then, suddenly, the industry is going to decide which information is to be provided. This attitude, in my view, does not contribute to a broad environmental exposure, nor is there any correlation between life and learning. It's quite essential. In the case of waste in general, the Party is committed to recycling as much as possible, either in the form of energy or for recovery. Although there are shared opinions on challenges, problem areas and ways to solve them, it is important in the political debate to listen to and obtain information from several different teams before binding decisions are taken. When, for example: As far as climate policy is concerned, which we are also coming back to in our own case, the majority of the Committee is obviously solely in line with the United Nations Climate Change Panel and states that man-made climate change is one of the greatest challenges facing humanity. The Progress Party, on the other hand, allows itself to ask some critical questions and is ridiculed by the majority for this. The majority of the committee disregards the fact that other researchers, who have also participated in the panel, have subsequently reversed and criticised the politicised conclusion of the 4th interim report. We believe that this is a good proof that critical questions still have to be asked. Nor should one forget that it may make sense to have in mind that there have always been climatic changes on earth. In a note from the Advance Party and the Right, it is pointed out that even our oil wealth dates from a time when the sea level was much lower than today, and the North Sea and the Norwegian Sea were forested areas and moorland. In the context of more close and global challenges in the Communication, it is important, in the view of the Progress Party, to pursue an environmental policy that provides demonstrable and important environmental impact and that municipalities are given the right of self-determination. As mentioned at the outset, the RM is wide-ranging and addresses many challenges. It is important to have good solutions to environmental challenges, and it is important that we, as politicians, make feasible plans and solutions that are to live with most people, both locally and globally.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1004	In the Communication on the Government's Environmental Policy and the State of the State, St.meld. No 26 for 2006-2007, the Government demonstrates its environmental policy objectives and ambitions in relation to the Soria Moria Declaration, but also to several environmental policy challenges and the way we should go. The Committee considers it important that the Government looks at the appropriate functioning of the Communication on the State of the State of the State of the Environment in its present form. Can we have a big and comprehensive message? Can we use the web more, etc.? It may be useful to look at how other countries inform about the state of the nation’s environment. A chapter that I think is very important in the RM is the chapter on environmental aid. I am very pleased that the current government places the list high and aims at Norway being the leader in environmental assistance. Environmental cooperation with China, South Africa and Indonesia are good examples of this. In Indonesia, Norway, among others, supports: measures against illegal logging and local forest management measures. The government wants to spend $3 billion a year on preserving the rainforest. This is a good climate action, which produces large, fast and positive results in terms of CO2 emissions. So over to something completely different, and it's about waste. The old slogan that waste is a resource is equally striking, although we recover more than half of the waste generated in Norway today. Recovery is becoming increasingly important to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Today's material recovery is estimated to provide greenhouse gas savings of 3.9 million CO2, which is 7 pst. We can still increase the recycling of paper, cardboard, wood and plastic. We can impose waste plans on all construction projects, we have to impose a ban on the landfill of organic waste, and we know that residual waste can be an important source of energy supply in Norway. But then we have to have more combustion and expand district heating systems. All of this will have a positive impact on the climate. We are going to ban landfill during 2009, but it is important to think about geography and transport, so that we get some transitional arrangements that are adapted to local and regional solutions. In Norway, we have hundreds of old landfills that emit large amounts of methane. When the Storting is presented with a waste case, it must contain measures to ensure such landfills - and who is to pay the bill. Furthermore, biogas production is forward-looking, as it provides both compost residues and biogas that can be used for energy purposes. We need a certification there. Producer responsibility works well, but we should extend responsibility. An example is the paint industry in the case of hazardous waste. Moreover, in Norway, wealth only in northern countries, more than 200 used TVs per year. day, because ‘all’ is now to have a flat screen. The mountains of hazardous waste are increasing, as receptions are unable to escape. Mobile phones, electrical and electronic small products are hazardous waste and an increasing problem. Each person throws about 400 kg of waste each year, and part of it ends up in wild fillings, being burned, buried or thrown to the sea. Who has clean-up responsibilities? This and the other issues mentioned above are important to put the search light on in a future case for Stortinget. The Government shall establish a State-owned waste prevention and recovery undertaking - a State-owned operator working with a more efficient resource use alongside the SFT. Today, the SFT is shaping all the rules and setting all the conditions. The question is whether this gives the best results in an industry in which more people will compete. Let us take advantage of the value of ‘sewage’ in Norway instead of driving the waste to Sweden for miles. Maybe we should also look at some framework conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1036	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1039	Let me start by saying a little about car traffic in the big cities. This weekend, the Workers' Party said to increase the taxation of the drivers in Trondheim dramatically, both through tolls and through increased fuel charges. This is a policy SV likes. I'm pretty sure I am. However, SINTEF reiterates that better planning of Trondheim and better road development in Trondheim will have a much better environmental impact than the measures proposed by the Trondheim Workers' Party. The normal thing is that when SINTEF -- which is one of the world's leading research environments -- says something, both the government councils and the representatives of the government parties are clapping. But when SINTEF says that the road policy of the Progress Party is also sensible from an environmental point of view, the skyscrapers are immediately closed again. When State Council Solheim ridicules the progress party's approach to foreign policy, I am, not on behalf of myself, but on behalf of the population of Utmarks-Norway, a little cursed. In fact, the State Council of Solheim is standing here on the pulpit and says that he knows best how to manage the values in Utmarks-Norway - values that the people of Utmarks-Norway have managed for centuries. But I stand here and say that it's not I who know best, and it's not Solheim who knows best, but it's local politicians and landowners in Utmarks Norway who know best how to take care of the natural values, as they've done for centuries, even in the future. That's what we're basing our environmental policy on, and I think it's on the limit of being disrespectful when you're ridiculed from this pulpit. I believe in rapporteur Vinje in Telemark, although he represents SV. I believe that rapporteur Vinje in Telemark, in the municipality also called Vinje, is better able to manage the foreign interests in Vinje than Erik Solheim and Tord Lien are. But then this is the beach zone. The representatives of Thorkildsen and Nordtun say we should tighten up on the beach zone. Government councillor Solheim and representative Sande say we should have differentiation. The councils are called Vikna. We can't have the same policy in Vikna as in Westfold, but he consistently refuses to answer if it means that we should tighten into Westfold and have the same bad governance in Vikna, also in the future. So the question that hangs in the air is, is there going to be a more liberal policy in Vikna than what you have today? In today's debate, I can state that the Central Party is completely failing. The representative Sande says that it is not possible to invest in bioenergy without building a forest road. It is not possible to bet on hydropower and at the same time to be opposed to expansion. But that's exactly what the government does--it's for one thing and against the other, and meets itself in the door all the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1054	I didn't really intend to ask for a 3-minute post, but I think I had to, because it was both surprising and a little sad to hear Left Gunnar Kvassheim's attack on Jens Stoltenberg and the government's climate policy. It was surprising, because Kvassheim is really criticizing his own policy -- a policy that is now rooted in a climate settlement that he himself agreed to adopt four weeks ago. But it's probably like four weeks is a long time in the opposition's eternal hiccup after a look-up. I also think that the post was a bit approximate, and that it was a passing of facts. I believe that this is not an environmental debate like the one we have today, worthy. Let me draw something out. At the initiative of the government of Stoltenberg, Norway has achieved a broad climate agreement on future environmental policies. The climate negotiations with the opposition, with the exception of the Progress Party, were tough, but they were good and constructive. An offensive, future climate policy was put in place here. To mention: Carbon neutrality in 2030, Norway will go ahead, greenhouse gas emission reductions of 15-20 million. tonnes of CO2 by 2020, about two thirds of Norway’s total emission reductions are taken nationally. The agreement also gave us 70 million dollars. extra this year for renewable energy, emissions to CO2 management, marine wind turbines, energy technology, transport, developing countries and rainforest, to mention something. These are the facts. This has now been put in place, on the initiative of the current government. Never has any government in the world, and that's also the fact, set itself such ambitious climate goals as this. I think it is good that Kvassheim and Left will now appear to be climate friendly in the opposition, but it is now strange that when Kvassheim himself put in a central position under the bourgeois government, not much was talking, at least not high, about climate. Yes, Snow White was mentioned as an example. We have made tough demands on CO2 emissions in Norway. I knew that the previous government didn't let two sticks in the cross to do anything to say no to Snow White, or put things in place for CO2 cleaning in the Snow White field. I think we should be a little bit more sober when we talk here, and stick a little bit more to the facts, what has happened in the past as well. The government parties did not have to invite to the climate settlement, but we wanted to establish a climate settlement that was broad and not least long-term. We have ensured that, and Norway is now leading the climate change process. We think that's very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1077	Let me start by promoting the proposal that the left has in the configuration. The representative Nordtun is obliged to combine two aspects that are mentioned in my article. I was in my post very satisfied with the climate agreement, and concluded that it is far into the government parties glad that the opposition had the power to move the government in a positive direction. There was a clear receipt in my post. That's what Nordtun now refers to in his post, and that's where we agree. What was behind me was that the Minister for the Environment has said that he is now tired of having to clean up old environmental sins. Then I said that for all practical purposes it must mean a ramsal criticism of Jens Stoltenberg. For the old environmental sins that one in Norwegian policy has had to deal with in recent months, Jens Stoltenberg has largely been raising and inciting in previous government contexts. Then it's not like Nordtun says, that the Bondevik II government did not deliver an offensive climate policy. It did one both at home and internationally. I would remind the representative that several of the climate proposals that the Bondevik II government had were so ambitious and offensive that the Labour Party could not vote for them. It was then solved in Stortinget in such a way that the Bondevik II government got a majority with SV. I definitely recognize the history, just as I acknowledge what we have done in the context of the climate agreement. I want to get into two relationships that I did not have time to mention in my first post. One is the need for a tax shift in the extension of the climate agreement. It's an area where the Left would like to invite to cooperate with the Government, to find good solutions to change societal development in a more environmentally friendly direction. We had in our alternative state budget a tax exchange of over NOK 3 billion, and we hope to be able to make a budget statement for 2009. Then the Council of State is right that cultural memories should be a more central part of this debate. Action is needed both in relation to those who own peaceful buildings and there is a need to raise general efforts in this area. Therefore, it is somewhat surprising to note that the government parties do not vote in favour of two proposals that relate to this very fact, which are in the vote, both in terms of the deduction rights of those who have liberated buildings and an obligation to increase the Culture Memory Fund. But we expect, in the light of what the Council of State said, that such positive contributions will come into the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1097	The representative of Gunnar Kvassheim has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1100	I found the post of Tord Lien from the Progress Party pointed out that the Progress Party is a climate turmoil, as the Council of State says. Not because one, like the representative Thorsen, asks critical questions about the research - the research is always faced with critical questions - but because the Progress Party, when action is taken to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, is the party that fights the most against the necessary and important measures. So one does not operate on the precautionary principle, but on the precautionary principle, where one will wait for the consequences and see if it really is something in it, before one might consider taking the necessary measures. Then he makes a number of completely groundless claims when it comes to the government's commitment to renewable energy production. It is not the case that one is opposed to the use of hydropower; on the contrary, a series of projects are being built at mini- and micro-power plants that generate new renewable energy for the country. One has warned of a greater investment in wind power, and the total investment in renewable energy is far greater than the government that the Progress Party supports in the previous period could achieve. So those claims are completely groundless. So finally, the representative Tord Lien is talking about the field industry and about the ability of the villagers to influence their own future. I'm totally in agreement with Tord Lien in is important. But there must be someone there, there must be a population in the countryside, if there is to be any point. Agricultural policy for the Progress Party provides dramatic cuts in customs duties, half of which are supported by agriculture. This will result in a downsizing of the industry that is in Norwegian towns today, and there is no one left to ensure the local administration that Tord Lien asks for.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1110	Let me first answer Torny Pedersen that we definitely need to look more closely at how we're going to get to a better reporting system. As part of it, let's look at how it's reported in other countries. It can always give good indications of how we can do things better. I noticed what was written about this, and the post that was kept about it. I think it will stimulate a broad debate on getting a better reporting system. So we're going to deal with that. I'll also tell Bente Thorsen that I'll see again on the packaging, see if that answer was good enough, or if it's more we can do. Let me also say, as Erling Sande said, that it is not that questions are asked about or are discussed around the United Nations Climate Panel, which is the problem. That is not what we are criticising the Progress Party for - of course all science must be discussed throughout all times. But when all the countries around the world, without exception, travel to Bali and say that they will base their future policies on the recommendations of the United Nations Climate Panel, and there is one party - in Norway - that says that they do not want what all the countries around the world want, then one must be allowed to ask: What does the Progress Party know? What is it George Bush, Hu Jintao, Putin and all the others don't know, but as the Progress Party knows? When all three central presidential candidates who are left in the United States now, Obama, Hillary Clinton and John McCain, have a strong and clear commitment, when one of them becomes president, to take international leadership in the climate field together with the EU and Europe, what is it that you in the Progress Party know no one else in the world has understood? That's what we're questioning, not that we're discussing. Of course, you should have an ongoing discussion on these issues. So to Kvassheim. I think we're going to put aside the historical debates. My main view is that it was done very little in the environmental field in Norway from the mid-1990s until 2005. That politics is in the right direction now, the government has the main credit for, as I see it. But I'm willing to share a good part of that honor with the opposition, because the opposition has done a lot of things, for example. in the climate agreement, which was not done before. That's good. Let's celebrate together the improvements that have come, but even more important is to focus on what we need to do further. Because what we now have as a policy is not the ultimate goal. We're going to have to develop policies every day. Now it wasn't enough time for Tord Lien. I just want to say, in answer to the most specific question that was asked: the municipality of Vikna will have more opportunity to plan its development through the new plan law and then see the questions in context regarding how to think around the beach zone in its municipality. But we need a strong, clear and clear reduction in the development of the central areas such as Kragerø, Lillesand or Grimstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1123	Now it was not so that the Progress Party decided to stand outside the climate negotiations, it was a message we received clearly from Stoltenberg and Solheim that we were not wanted in that debate. With regard to the measures on clean-up in Mongstad and renewable energy investment in Norway, the Progress Party is first of all in agreement with the Government in many things, and in many areas much more progressive. As for the will and the ability to tax and prohibit a whole lot of things, it is quite obvious that there is a great distance between the Advance Party and the Government. Then I find reason to take up the views of the Center Party. There is no doubt that the uprising we have in the foreign municipalities will not stop after today's voting. The centre party is completely failing on a number of foreign policy issues. The answer from the Central Party, and so far from Solheim, is that the agricultural policy of the Advance Party would have depopulated the District Norway. But it is that with today's government, 3,000 farms disappear every year. The party of progress is not in government, but it still disappears 3,000 farms every year. The government has a concession policy that allows hundreds of farms to be destroyed every year. The reason why the representative Sande comes with sour glimmer against the Progress Party is that he knows that it is not just farmers who live in Utmarks-Norway, and that both farmers and others are more and more leaving the Centre Party - with good reason, as the Centre Party has left its core points of view in many of these important matters. I note that the uprising in the foreign municipalities in Norway will continue for good reason. Because I have seen that the State Council has asked for the floor once more, I shall end with some words of wisdom, but I cannot guarantee that I will end the debate with them. So you can't live by sitting in the woods and watching the moss grow - and you can't live by sitting in the spring and watching the sun go down.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1134	Let me first sign out the positive invitation Gunnar Kvassheim came to cooperate around the tax change. It is a typical issue that requires political leadership, and where it is important to have broad cooperation in the EEA. The reason for that is very simple. All the tax reliefs a government might be able to join in that area, will go through with one voice and have full jubalon from everything and everyone. In particular, all attempts to increase the taxes on environmentally harmful businesses face criticism, especially from the Progress Party, which runs around the country and the beach and looks for the smallest small group that might be dissatisfied with something that could make the climate better, to see how they can exploit that group to get votes. It puts pressure on the Right, which can otherwise agree with the Progress Party on some general questions about charging policy, and makes it more difficult to get to the sensible policy we need - we need more of what is more pleasant, friendly and positive, and a tougher attitude towards the negative. We want a broad discussion with the opposition parties about it. So I'd like to be very clear on why it was impossible to have the Advance Party on the climate deal. It's very simple. If a party thought we didn't need the pension scheme in Norway, how on earth would we be able to have a deal with that retirement party? You have to have a certain base in the first place. Only those parties that appear to have a pension scheme in Norway, which appears to be important and that older people need pensions, are natural partners in a pension settlement. That's also the case with a climate settlement. When you're not even sure if it's a problem, you're not a natural partner in the discussion about how to solve the problem. The other six parties in the Biggest believe this is one of the difficult challenges humanity is facing, so we can also sit down together and discuss how we're going to solve it. Of course, when you don't even know if it's a problem, you can't be involved in the discussion about solutions to it. So finally about who knows best. Local politicians have good sense and good sense. It is only in extreme exceptional cases that future generations need to be protected from the solutions proposed by local politicians in relation to the beach zone. But also there I would ask the Progress Party to review its positions. We cannot have it so that the policies of the Progress Party are not discussed properly in the Stortinget. The Progress Party began with dissatisfaction with local politicians. Anders Lange's lecture was about how to disapprove politicians and bureaucrats. The Progress Party has a health policy that will deprive local politicians of almost all influence on the health system. Only when one can create dissatisfaction with environmental policy are local politicians important to the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1145	The representative Erling Sande has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment of up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1148	It's just a short comment to make it quite clear that it's not like Tord Lien's trying to create the impression that the Progress Party will be welcomed in all the districts of this country. In fact, the policy pursued by the previous government, with the support of the Progress Party, in reducing regional policy instruments, when it comes to the removal of support for municipal food funds, contributed to the creation of value in the districts, was strongly criticised in the districts. Then I did not fully appreciate Tord Lien's regret that the number of users went down, or if he only registered it. I'm sorry that the number of gardening is being reduced. But when one claims that medicine is reducing the income in the industry, yes, then is a reasonable optimism about the means of action - whether it is a threat to Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1155	The representative, Mr. Tord Lien, is the rapporteur, so he has a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1158	This could cancel out. Now we are far inside both a health policy and an agricultural policy debate. I want to grasp what Solheim said about extreme cases. Statistically, Solheim probably has a point there. There is no significant proportion of the land items being treated in Norwegian municipalities that are at Solheim's table. The main reason for this is that local politicians have given up - partly because you have strict legislation, and you know that you are not allowed to do what you want, so you give up, or you give up when the County comes with a notice of objection. So it might be that Solheim has a point statistically. I don't think local politicians feel that they have very much freedom of action in these types of land issues. When it comes to health policy, we're going to start with one thing. It is to treat as many patients as possible, not to have the most complicated legislation, which is completely impossible to understand, as the government of Stoltenberg uses its policy. As far as agricultural policy is concerned, we would have increased and more effective use of the agricultural policy of the Progress Party, and we would have made sure that the hundreds of uses, if not thousands, that are empty today, could be split up so that the neighbour had access to the land and that the houses could be used. There had been light in the houses, which the government else is very busy with. I think that concludes the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1171	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2. [[See pages 2126 and 2128]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1186	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 65 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and State Council Tora Aasland 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1197	The Committee's position concerns a theme which is gradually becoming known to the Committee and to the Storting, namely the strengthening of teacher competence and the recruitment of new teachers. The Committee agrees on the following starting point: that the teacher is important for students’ learning outcomes and that teachers are the main single factor in Norwegian school. That is the Committee's common starting point. There is also something in common in the reality description, e.g. that we are in a situation where we are right in the face of a teacher crisis and that at least we will get it strengthened. NRK Rogaland today reports that there are 200 teachers missing in Stavanger, and the nations today report that in Hå på Jären you choose to pay the teachers extra well to be sure to get some. It's today's snapshot of one of the background themes -- teacher recruitment. In the description of the situation, the Committee stands united, but as often happens in politics, it is distinguished when the instruments are to be presented - i.e. There is something common here too: we all fully agree that this has been discussed several times, and when we refer to the past, the documents will show that there has also been disagreement. So as I move on, I want the majority, who are the government parties, to justify their position, because the majority proposes what the vote turns out to be, namely that the proposal is annexed to the protocol, while the minority has a series of proposals that will be taken up by the representative Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide later. With regard to the proposals made by the minority, it is almost incomprehensible to me, as the case-rapporteur, that we should not stand together about at least three of them. The first is simply about continuing the post-training effort that lies within the Knowledge Lift, which I, as a Norwegian citizen, perceives that the Government will. The second proposal is about how we actually record that this training reaches them, that is, the teachers, because we've got a lot of concerns about it. One of the later proposals is about senior measures, to ensure that, for example, in concrete terms. real-time teachers may remain in school according to the description given. All of these points are rejected at the vote that comes. When it comes to the left, we're going to go on important points beyond what we're talking about here with others. But we have had an opportunity to deal with this in the past, and we have an opportunity to deal with this later, for example. when the Committee and the Stortinget are given a chance to re-assess a teacher's vow for Norwegian teachers in future discussions on teacher training in general. It's almost strange that the government parties systematically reject proposals that might in any practical way contribute to the recruitment of teachers to the school. I have to admit, I don't understand. I do not understand it, because it is now - I think - ten years since the representative Sigvald Uppøen Hansen took a similar initiative towards the then state council Jon Lilletun. He was received, as it is called in his language, with great rejoicing and enthusiasm; he was accepted well. And not only that: he triggered an action. For the first time, the Left promoted a proposal to recruit more teachers, the representative Upbeøen Hansen suggested that this should be listened to by the then Council of State - that was the Council of State Djupedal - in the sense of «doing something with». After these wise words from the representative Upbeøen Hansen, however, we have come to the stage of the position war that basically shows that the majority has a position where they still either refer to things that the Government has done or to upcoming grievances, while the opposition has various practical proposals that will try to remedy the situation, both in terms of recruitment and in terms of competence. This wonder is then reported, and then it will be that later in the debate, both from the majority and from other parties, we will have the reasons for our position. Nevertheless, if we look at the comments, we are all happy that there can be a contact between school and business. We know that there are good suggestions in this area, and we are all concerned with getting more real-time teachers. But as I said, when we come to the point where we have to set up working time and bonus schemes to give a handshake to real-time teachers - from 55 years of age - to make them longer in school, and actually follow up on the concrete knowledge that everyone agrees on, and describes in this message, our paths are separated. These lines of division are getting almost unimaginable. They also become understandable because more people think we should make a school-political settlement. One cannot then enter into a school-political settlement between someone who still either refers to things that have been done before, or to something that is going to happen, while all the others point to concrete proposals now. They're old dividing lines -- they're kind of dear, but they're all the more important. The debate will illuminate them. The Norwegian school debate deserves that these divisions be allowed to stay there until the necessary solutions, both in terms of recruitment and teacher competence, are put forward. I refer to the committee's position on the majority's position, namely that the proposal is annexed to the protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1218	Is it a topic that has received a lot of attention in the last year, and so it is, teaching competence, as the representative Dørum said. And we all agree, every time, that it's important that we have teachers who have the right skills - it's in relation to subjects, steps one should teach, and competence in classroom management, for example. We have spent a great deal of money through the introduction of the promise of knowledge for this very purpose, and we have two large-scale messages in store that will focus on quality in education and on changes in teacher training itself. Of course, if we're going to get what we want at school, it's important that we get involved in the Great Britain and create a framework for getting good teachers to help us achieve our educational policy objectives. But I think the most important thing is what's going on locally and regionally. It is the municipalities and county councils that are school owners and that are responsible for having sufficient competence at each school so that the students receive the education they are going to have. Therefore, it is important that we communicate well with the teachers themselves, the parents and the school owners. I have doubts as to whether the proposal for a representative we have in front of us today adds up to it. I'll try to justify it. My experience is that there's a lot of good development work going on in school. School owners are increasingly very concerned that they should have local strategies for the development of their schools. Of course, I know best the municipality I live in, and the county that I belong to, but I have a certain impression that there is a lot of good development work going on in school across the country just to promote the quality of teaching and learning outcomes for the students. As a school owner, it has an independent responsibility to identify the competence that it has, and what action to take to address it. The training courses I have seen locally are just a follow-up to local surveys. In addition, the measures are very loyal to the priorities that have followed with the introduction of the Knowledge Lift. The representative proposal also focuses on cooperation between business and school. Here I think the school owners have followed closely. Young entrepreneurship and student businesses are popular and good measures in schools. These measures are also supported by industry. However, I agree that one should stimulate more cooperation with local companies, and not least motivate employees in the business community with, for example, real skills to qualify for school education. But cooperation is happening all the time, and I experience business as very interested in the development of the Norwegian school. That was well demonstrated during this year's NHO collection here in Oslo. That's why it's important that we in Stortinget have good communication with the actors out in School-Norway, and that's not what we'll get when we're constantly asking the Government to follow up and make sure the school owners do their job. I believe more in dialogue with all the actors than in regulations and controls to ensure that what we do from central decisions is in line with what is experienced as relevant both in municipalities and county municipalities. Municipalities and county councils are teachers' employers and have to follow up both pay and working conditions. They do that, and they do it well. Nord-Trundellag County, for example, has for a number of years had its own senior measures for teachers and other employees over 60 years of age. Anyone who has passed 60 years, and wants to, can go down to 80 pst. full pay position. This is done to ensure that the county council, among others. shall ensure that well-qualified teachers do not stop but continue in school until retirement. We who sit in Stortinget must then have confidence that those who have authority will take responsibility. That is why I am somewhat surprised at the draft representative we are dealing with today, not least on the basis of the fact that the Right in the last period, as I understood it, was concerned with the most decentralised school development possible. Either I've misunderstood, or there's a big change in the party's school policy now that the party is in opposition. Having said that, of course, I am positive and concerned that we are going to contribute to the development of the competences of teachers and research and development in school. The additional means of competence that have followed the introduction of the Knowledge promise have been absolutely necessary, and I am concerned that we will continue to contribute when this year is over. The way in which this contribution is to be made needs to be discussed in the context of the quality-of-school notification. A central responsibility we have is to follow up our universities and universities have relevant and good continuing training offers for teachers. It is also essential that offers are readily available throughout the country. If it becomes too difficult to participate in continuing education, it will lead to a large number of heifers. This applies not only in traditional schools but also within, for example: management, which was another topic we discussed not long ago. If teachers and those who are already school leaders are to acquire formal management skills, the offer must be readily available. With regard to the recruitment of teachers, there is also much we can contribute - primarily by having a good teacher education many people apply for and, not least, complete. In addition, we must help to ensure that the framework conditions are good for those who are already working at school. In the magazine Education that comes tomorrow, one of the headlines is ‘Time to do the job’. It also says: ‘Too much of what happens in school is abuse of the time of the teachers and does not promote the learning of the students.’ Teachers at the Mølldamm secondary school in Bærum will throw out unnecessary planning, documentation, reporting, meetings and minutes. There might be something in this that teachers spend a lot of their time on activities that they don't perceive promoting learning. We may be able to help make school days easier, and we should be concerned about that when we discuss the quality of education. There may be time for both a critical review of everything that we centrally impose on teachers of tasks and to see if other groups of professionals can contribute to the school day, so that teachers can concentrate primarily on education. It may be that others are better qualified than teachers to deal with different issues in school everyday life. I also think that the cooperation between home and school can develop a lot. It will make it easier both to be parents and teachers if this is further stimulated and developed. Mutual understanding and clear expectations between home and school could help to improve the experience of the school day for both students and teachers. We need to do our part to increase teachers' competence in this area and parents' interest in home/school cooperation. It can also be a focus area, for example. for the county councillors supervising the schools. At all, it is important that we contribute what we can in order for teachers to experience it as meaningful teaching right up to retirement age, and not least make the teaching profession attractive to young people. That depends on whether the knowledge nation of Norway will develop further. I have great faith in the local forces in this context. I believe in the role of local authorities and county councils as school owners, and that they help us to achieve the educational policy objectives without constantly being imposed by the central authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1246	The proposals deal, as the rapporteur said, with a well-known theme in this Chamber. The challenge with the proposals is that they do not become less relevant as time goes on - rather on the contrary. It is interesting to note that the government is currently actively using the media to create the impression that it will do something for the Norwegian school. We are still reading about a prime minister, with various companions, who relaunches old policies or adopts opposition proposals that the government parties have previously voted against. I fear that we are now facing a government that is more concerned with marking the will to act rather than being in possession of the ability to act. It's the last thing any government has to measure, the actual ability to solve challenges. We saw it on Tuesday, when the government parties in the Chamber voted down important proposals to combat trouble and unrest at school, while the Prime Minister said on the same day that he would solve the same challenges - but he has to spend more time. The challenges are in school today! The proposal we are discussing today basically receives the same kind of treatment of the government parties as the motion for a resolution by the Progress Party on Tuesday. They agree that this is a challenge, but they do not have the ability to contribute to the challenge. When half of the high school teachers are over 50 years old, a waiting and seeing attitude is of little help. Then it should be recognized that the time for action has come. Of course, you can ask why it's so important to ensure the recruitment of teachers right now. The reason is obvious. If we do not have a sufficient number of teachers with a high level of professional competence, it will affect the competence of all future professionals. Nevertheless, the Progress Party allows itself to remember that the teaching resources we already have in school are being used too poorly. The working time agreement for teachers acts as a handicap for school development and better use of school competence resources. A key prerequisite for solving short-term skills challenges will therefore be to put pressure on the social partners to find a working time system that will enable us to learn more from each educational year, combined with other measures, such as: wages and salaries, improved status through various measures and the right and obligation to continue training, in order to maintain the balance. In fact, in a short time we may face a situation where this is the only way to succeed in our future training. There is strong pressure in the labour market, and this pressure is one of the reasons for promoting the proposals included in the vote. Unfortunately, however, in a pressurised labour market, recruitment measures in one area can help to weaken recruitment in other areas that are also important. For this reason, the Progress Party in the suspension has indicated that we are a bit sceptical about all personnel challenges to be addressed through different and specific recruitment measures for specific groups. Today, we see in the press that there are more than 300 unoccupied police posts in this country. The Joint Police Association believes that this is because trained police officers get better conditions in private companies than in the police. That means it's hard to recruit policemen for police positions. It may also be linked to the very tight police budgets, but it is probably a concrete example of recruitment challenges in public positions. We can also read today that teachers who are added to the municipality of Haå in Rogaland receive 80 000 kroner in extra pay, which means that KS now fears a real payroll in the municipal settlement. This is today's picture, today's media clip. This would indicate that the issue of these proposals is very topical and that something needs to be done now - today! Nevertheless, the Government is also pushing ahead with these challenges. They've been at risk to solve these challenges for two and a half years. Now they only have one and a half years left of their reign, and they're still pushing on it. The proposals on which the Progress Party is involved in this setting, which the Right’s representative wishes to include in his statement, are important contributions in order to increase recruitment to the teaching profession and to maintain existing competences in the school longer. The opposition shows the force of action in general flocks. The plural government is sitting on the fence and waiting a little longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1274	First, I almost have to pay a little visit to the representative Gerd Janne Kristoffersen, because the right has always been and is still concerned with decentralised school development. We are committed to setting some national framework within which schools and school owners have freedom. It stands in stark contrast to the policy of the Workers' Party when they were in the last government, when they were not engaged in setting any national framework and goals, but were very concerned about managing precise methods and the developments that would take place. Today's proposals are a follow-up to what the Right has done in government. So it's not about directing development in any particular direction, but it's about facilitating good school development and good school ownership. The background to the promotion of these proposals by the Right is the need to strengthen teaching skills at school and to improve the recruitment of new teachers. Quality in school depends, as we know, on good teachers. There has gradually become a broad consensus that the teacher is the most important individual factor in the school. Competitive, motivated, committed and professionally secure teachers with high ambitions on behalf of all students are the key to good learning outcomes. Fortunately, we have a lot of such teachers in school, but we need more. We're expanding our school day and we're going to need more teachers, and we also have other challenges that I'm going to face, which makes us need a lot. So as the need increases, we experience a marked decline in the number of applicants for general teacher training. An increasing proportion of teachers are over 50 years old. In high school, as many as half of the teachers are over 50. Therefore, it is important that we strengthen the measures we can use to train more teachers. The right considers that the government does not take this challenge sufficiently seriously -- both because our proposals today are going to be voted down by the government parties, and because on several occasions the government parties have had the opportunity to vote in favour of proposals to create recruitment plans for teachers, but they have voted against. In addition, we have a challenge in keeping teachers in school as far as possible. Many newly educated teachers quit the job during the first five years after they were trained as teachers, and very many quit earlier than they have to in relation to retirement. In the evaluation carried out by NIFU STEP of the general teacher training provided in Report No. 23 for 2006, implementation and non-response have been analysed among general school students. NIFU STEP concludes that the study progress in general teacher training is weak and that re-election and non-response are extensive. The report also shows that there is a large difference in the proportion of completion between teacher training places, but that the overall results show that there has been some improvement in the throughput of the study after the quality reform. The evaluation by NOKUT of general teacher training shows that there is a basis for strengthening the recording requirements. In this context, it is gratifying to note that there now appears to be a cross-political consensus on the Storting that it was right to introduce admission requirements for general teacher training. We remember, as we know, that especially SV was strong opponents of it when the previous government introduced it. NOKUT’s evaluation also shows that it may be reasonable to specialize in general teacher training against age. We know that there is a very big difference between teaching in the second step and in the tenth step. Different skills are required to succeed. The right therefore believes that education should be more specialised in relation to the level at which it is to be taught. In this context, the right proposes to raise the admission requirements in Norwegian and mathematics to general teacher education, while specialising in age. The average non-compliance with general teacher training is 27 pst. This average hides enormous differences - on everything between 11 pst. and 51 pst. As an incentive to improve throughflows, the Right proposes the launch of a ten-year scheme in which teachers at both universities and colleges receive a donation of their student loans of NOK 20 000 when completing their education. It is an active tool that can be used to recruit more teachers, just as one has previously actively used the Loan Fund to recruit for specific courses, or for example: to reward long-term education. In the context of the development of the Knowledge promise, the previous government developed a strategy for enhancing initial training competence ranging from 2005 to 2008. This strategy describes the school owner’s important role in the development of skills and the local responsibility for assessing needs and priorities. Substantial funding has been included in this strategy. The size has granted 375 million. kr annually. However, the evaluations currently available show that teachers have received too little of the continuing training they should have under the strategy. There appears to be too little interaction between school owners and teachers on the needs to be met, and in particular, the professional-specific follow-up training appears to be a priority. The evaluations available show that there is a need to possibly change some of the device in the use of the means of competence. At the same time, it is very important that this effort continues after its initial expiry in 2008. We are therefore proposing to extend the 2011 competence for development strategy, with at least the same amount of resources as we currently have. There is also a need for more systematic continuing training, not just the reform-related continuing training that we, typically seen, often use in Norway. In order to ensure that students receive training relevant to the needs of the labour market, it is important to develop close cooperation between school and local business and labour. The NHO project Businesses in school have the primary objective of providing students and students with a better understanding of work and business issues, and of providing the best possible basis for future value creation. The curriculum also underlines that a good interaction between school and business can make training in the field more concrete and real-life, and that it can increase students' desire to learn. This is a cooperation that will also have an impact on the major challenge we face in leaving school. We therefore believe that it is appropriate to consider the introduction of positions in school according to the model of Professor 2, which means that there are professionals who take their skills into school. In this way, education can be made more practical and concrete for students, and teachers can also acquire more learning strategies for teaching. In addition, the strengthening of the links between working life and school has been a major bonus. A major challenge in Norwegian society and at the same time a very political discussion is as well-known as how to get people to work longer. This applies not least within the school. Age distribution among teachers is as mentioned, and, in particular, there will be a large shortage of real-time teachers in a short time. At the same time, we know that the situation is quite parallel for language teachers. Many quit, retire early or become disabled after a long career in school. But these teachers have an incredibly important competence. The students and the school will undoubtedly benefit from keeping them in school as far as possible. Against this background, it is important to stimulate more teachers to work longer. We propose senior measures for real-time teachers from the age of 55, either in the form of an economic bonus scheme as a carrot to get them to work longer, or by making the teaching obligation so that teachers are employed full-time, but teach less. Many teachers are tired after a long life as teachers. I have a lot of understanding of that, but the skills they possess, we have to try to stay in school for as long as possible. One might say that there is a golden opportunity to get the same teachers who might teach less, to help develop pedagogical methods, to guide younger real-time teachers, and to develop the subjects. These are concrete measures that need to be taken to maintain competence. In the 2008 Right Alternative State Budget, we proposed adding 30 million. to these senior measures as a hand bill to municipalities and county councils in order to implement such a type of action. But as so often before, the government parties today are going to choose to go against proposals that they really think are both positive and good. The right and the other opposition parties have recently given the government many opportunities to realize the beautiful words of the last few months about bet in school. The answer is really always the same: the government will come back to them in some big message that comes during either spring or autumn. But the school doesn't need any more staging messages, investigations or documents, the school needs action. We want, with the proposals we are promoting, to further strengthen the promise of knowledge. We think it's the right way to go. If it's really an interest in the government to do the same thing, it's a mystery to me why they can't vote for the proposals we're making today. It should be completely unproblematic. The right has a strong desire for a school to provide all students with the same opportunities, to focus on knowledge, quality and requirements, and to help balance differences between students due to social background. Then we can't wait for a government that thinks it's more important not to support proposals other parties have promoted, than actually to get to a good development in school. The right is impatient on behalf of the students. We expect the Government to move from word to action. I am addressing the proposals to which the Right is promoting alone or which are co-sponsors.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1312	The representative Ms Soreide has addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1315	Teachers have one of the most important jobs in Norway and are the most important people in school. They teach our children how to deal with everyday life and their lives. Thousands of teachers in school are making a tremendous effort to provide our children with knowledge so that they can meet tomorrow's challenges. They deserve praise. As politicians, we have a great responsibility for, among other things, enabling teachers to meet the many children every day and provide them with what they need for knowledge, help and follow-up. Our community depends on the good teacher. That's why it's our job to set things straight so that teachers are allowed to be teachers. We all remember the good teacher who managed to get us to do a little bit more, which made us curious, who brought us more knowledge, who opened new doors and took us on a journey that was teaching and made us see contexts and thus understand a little bit more. We remember those who encouraged us, who spoke to us when we cried, who understood us, and who praised us when we had accomplished our utmost. We can and should thank the teachers for having created independent children with self-confidence and knowledge of democracy and understanding of democracy. It's these values on which we build a safe and fair society. This says that we're the best in the world -- and we're going to be proud of that. PISA and PIRLS and the national tests in December 2007 show that we need to work more systematically in terms of both reading, writing and numeracy at school, because many children leave school without being able to read and write properly. This is serious. It is necessary to be able to read and write in today's society. It's important to get in early with efforts, as the big message from this government about early action--...and no one was left standing--emphasizing. Providing help to children at the earliest possible stage is important. If you feel mastery, you can turn against the knowledge and not from the knowledge. SV is very happy that the government has expanded the hour in primary school. From autumn onwards, from first to fourth class steps there will be five hours more per week, which will be used for enhanced writing and reading training, numerical understanding and language. Children are looking for knowledge and want to learn more. I'm glad that the government comes with a big message about quality in school this spring, where one will systematize better reading and writing training at the previous class stages, but also throughout the school run. We know that good systematic reading and writing training is important. We have an important job ahead of us to keep the skilled teachers and recruit new ones. We do this by investing in the teachers and letting them develop their skills. Investing in continuing training for teachers is important. We spend a lot of money on this. I have been out in many schools in Norway, and the feedback from the teachers is that what is currently offered by continuing training is often too little systematic or too little relevant, or the courses are too short. The money spent on continuing education is important and relevant and SV believes that it can be used in a more systematic way. That is why I am pleased that the Government is working on this, and will come back to this in the big message of quality in the training coming this spring. When it is announced that in a few months' time there will be a big message in which one will go into exactly the problem that the opposition is addressing, I would say that it is almost unprofessional of the opposition to propose this. I call for a more constructive debate on this, both content, organisation and so on. To know yourself, you have to know your story. I think it's an important manoeuvre that all of us politicians should do, especially in important matters. There's a lot to learn from it, and it's important to see if you've changed your course or if you're continuing the same course. I want to go back to teacher training. The last time we adopted new teacher training was in 2002, just six years ago. It's Right Teacher Training we're now assessing, and as there's a broad consensus that we're going to change. When the Right in its comments and in articles in the debate today goes into the strup of the SV, this is quite ironic, because we have not been responsible for the implementation of the previous policy. We come in as cleaners and make sure you get a new and better teacher training. It's important that we have a predictable process. What the opposition is promoting today in Stortinget is little predictable and little forward-looking for our teachers. It's almost unprofessional. We can't play pingpong with our teachers. We need to get a teacher training that can last more than just six years next time. We need to have a broad and comprehensive debate on teacher training and not just make individual proposals. It's about recruiting the profession. It's about taking the teachers seriously. I would like to draw up the SV’s proposal in connection with the Storing Communication presented in 2002. These were not adopted. They were dismayed by today's opposition. The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have made proposals to ensure that kindergarten owners and school owners receive an offer of cooperation with teacher institutions on guidance for newly educated teachers. We promoted this proposal because we thought that all teachers should receive guidance when going to work. We know that NOKUT also places emphasis on practice, as it is called. It is important to have closer cooperation between the educational institutions and the school. SV submitted proposals for an obliging escalation plan to strengthen the training of teachers. This government has followed up, and you will get back to this spring's big news. SV wanted to strengthen the pedagogics and didactics of training and referred to the criticism expressed in the Norwegian Network Council’s evaluation. Several of the main problems raised in 2002 have also been identified in the new evaluation carried out by NOKUT. In particular, this applies to the obligation to include teaching in curricula in all disciplines, vocational themes across subjects, better relations between theory and practical training and clarification of areas of competence in the training programme. Here the Right should have listened to SV. We followed the advice of researchers and submitted suggestions when we could, i.e. when the teacher training was up in the previous period. The right did not join. It's with a certain irony that right now, suddenly, it's incredibly busy to adopt some elements of a teacher's education that is in a thorough process. Teacher training is an important issue, and it is important that the opposition begins to think about politics and participates in a discussion of content and a broad discussion of what is important in teacher training, such as structure and content. We need to ensure a teacher training that can last for years. Teachers need and demand stability and predictability, not demonstration proposals that do not lead to a better school. General teacher training has been evaluated by NOKUT. I want to spend some time on it, because this is a very important evaluation. General teacher training is criticised for quality as well as for relevance, and we cannot live with this for a long time. The Panel has identified both organisational and management problems related to general teacher training. It is claimed that professional and pedagogical communities are often lacking in education and that in many places there is a lack of common understanding between management levels in terms of education objectives and strategies and who is responsible for decision-making processes. This is the management of individual institutions in the process of changing. This is a work undertaken by the Council of State. NOCUT underlines the importance of the need for professional training for teachers, and this is important. At the same time, it has been pointed out that the dropout rate is too high and that there is a need for a more research-focused education. The evaluation of NOKUT is broad and covers a wide range of areas. It is necessary to have a broad discussion of changes in teacher training, both on structure and on content. It is a very broad and complex debate, which needs to be seen in its entirety and in its context. SV will not be in favour of any of the proposals currently being promoted by the Right and the Opposition, because these are only demonstration proposals. When we get a big message about teacher training and can see an overall context in this in a short time, there is no need to make any single proposals. We need to get a teacher training through time, which is not a left-hand job that needs to change after six years. The opposition's handling of this reminds me of Gro Harlem Brundtland's EU strategy. From the EU’s adoption to Norway’s adoption, it should be so short that even the EU became in doubt as to who invented it. This is the case with the opposition today: from the Government it announces that it will undergo the general teacher training until the Right asks the Government to adopt the content, it is short time. This government has strengthened both the local economy and the focus on continuing education and training, and we have started well in relation to entrepreneurship in the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1368	Since I only have 5 minutes, I am not going to use my entire post to comment on the posts of the representative Lena Jensen. But let me say it in that way that SV should be very happy that they have experienced the governments Bondevik I and Bondevik II, who looked at all the proposals that SV promoted. We voted in favour of what we were in favour of, and we voted against what we opposed. I think it will pay off for this hall, for the climate and for this government to listen to and see that there are other people who have an commitment both to the school and to what is moving out in the debate. I'm not going to spend more energy on it now, but go over to my post. Then we can rather take this discussion on a later occasion. I feel that in this matter the government parties are voting against what they really are in favour of. It's an honest thing to disagree politically, because we're often in this room, because we're different political parties. But with the focus we now have at school, with the commitment of parents, students, teachers and professionals, I think it would have been worthwhile to look at the content of some of the proposals that lie in this matter. We've had questions about recruitment. The left has had proposals, the opposition has made more proposals on how we can solve this, but the government parties voted against them. Increasing teacher recruitment takes place, among other things: to make the teaching profession attractive. I believe that today's teachers can be the best recruiters if they themselves thrive, have good working conditions and feel that they are being listened to when they make recordings. What they've come up with now is, don't give us more hours, but more teachers into the hours we already have. An increased teacher recruitment is also about a good senior policy, about taking care of the good teachers we have, and the Christian People's Party believes that a mentoring system could help maintain the competence of many experienced teachers, plus that it would help to give a good start to the young teachers that exist. Youth is facing very special challenges. The review of reform 97 showed that youth was in many ways excluded from the reforms ahead of the Knowledge promise. One of the challenges facing high school is theoretical education. I think it is important to be able to offer students who are short on the theoretical, a more practical school day. We must have a youth step that can take care of both the theoretical strengths and the practical strengths of the students. This is why it is important to recruit teachers with knowledge of youth, who can meet students in the best possible way. If we succeed in that, we can help prevent the apostasy that exists in high school. The Christian People’s Party supports the Right’s proposal to extend the strategy for developing skills in initial training with the same resource effort as today or higher resource effort than today. We believe we're not in port. We believe that there is a need to better monitor the skills of teachers in order to ensure an even better and more targeted benefit from the development of skills we have. We also agree that provision should be made for local authorities to be more actively involved in education in the business and public institutions. There is a lot of expertise and cooperation will be of mutual benefit to business and school. However, we also believe that it may be possible to attract more groups of professionals to school where it is useful and where one knows that the students will be able to benefit from it. The Minister of Knowledge has announced a case of improved general teacher training on the basis of the evaluation we have seen. It meets the Christian People's Party. We see it as most natural to address the issues that address both the raising of admission requirements and the specialisation of general teacher training against age, in a broader review. But let me already give some consideration, even though we are not voting for those proposals now. I think the Storting should assume that we have both large schools in cities and small schools in the districts. The specialisation that is now being discussed in relation to general teacher education will be easy to care for in large places with large schools, but in small Åseral, where there are not so many inhabitants, we will have problems with a specialised education. Let me just add that notion. We believe that it would be useful to consider the individual elements of teacher training when dealing with this matter, but let us listen to and vote for the proposals we are in favour of, and against, those we oppose.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1398	School issues are probably one of the most debated issues in the media in winter, but also in this room. Everyone thinks something about school, everyone wants it to get better. Different instruments are proposed, and their emphasis varies. It can be better school management, more teachers, fewer students in each group, earlier efforts for those who need it, etc. It's probably right that we need different instruments. Today, then, the theme is strengthened teaching skills. It's important. It is not to be expected that teachers will be equally good at teaching at all ten levels in primary school with four-year teacher training. In addition, a teacher must teach in all disciplines. This, of course, is a very comprehensive task. The Committee agrees fully with the initial wording of the opinion: ‘In the view of the Committee, the teacher is the main individual factor in Norwegian school.’ We can read the same in St.meld. No 16 for 2006-2007, Chapter 6.1.1: «Competent employees are the main prerequisite for good quality and social cohesion throughout the education system.» There's no doubt about it. The skill needs of kindergarten, school and for the part of counselling services have reasonably changed in response to changing social and work needs. All the time, there's a growing demand for more learning for everyone. That's good, but it's demanding. We are aware that the average age of Norwegian teachers is high. It is well described in the document, so I will not take it up again. But I can mention that, for example. In Uppland, as I know best, over 40 pst. by the teachers in the course of a five-year period. We're going to hope they don't. But that shows the fact that you have to be busy with recruitment. At the same time, it has to be arranged for people to be able to stand longer in work. Valuable competences may otherwise disappear too quickly. Fortunately, we know that a very important work is being done in this area locally. Many municipalities are doing a lot to make older teachers longer at work. It is also decided that the Government will present a big message about the teacher role and teacher training around the turn of the year 2008/2009. It will address the essential points in this area and will also address some of the questions raised in the document from the Right. In a society of such rapid change and with a relatively high average age of professionals, it must be stressed that the need for the continued development of systematic systems for the enhancement of skills in the form of continuing training is high. Teachers and principals in primary and secondary schools also need an offer after the strategy period for continuing education expires the current year. In several cases, the government has expressed its willingness to continue to co-finance the government for this purpose, and it is in this context expressed by the ministerial team that a systematic system is necessary to meet the needs of teachers for the development of their skills, both professionally and pedagogically. It is valuable to develop the quality of training. The strategy for developing skills in the context of the Knowledge promise is under ongoing evaluation. The Council of State and the Ministry are concerned about the introduction of these schemes as a support for the implementation of the Knowledge Lift. When the strategy period expires this year, it will be natural to see how good schemes can be found in another way. So a little bit about working with business and public institutions. It is important to develop cooperation between business and school. It is a strength for the education sector to draw on the skills of businesses and public enterprises. Entrepreneurship as a educational platform is one of several instruments for school-business cooperation. Entrepreneurship training was strengthened in the context of the introduction of the Knowledgelift in 2006. Entrepreneurship is defined in several plans for primary school in the new curricula introduced by the Knowledge Lift. We know that business appreciates these plans. Several departments are part of a spice team for the organization Young Entrepreneurship. The setting mentions that there are 40000 students present, but now the latest figures show that there are 90 000 who have participated in different activities in 2007. It's an important contribution to learning a little about – and maybe get the taste of – business development. This will be one of many measures to update the school and teachers to keep up with today's society. And this happens locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1432	There is little doubt that there is a broad consensus here in the Grand Duchy as well as in society that the competence of teachers is the most crucial factor for the benefits of training. Nor is there any disagreement that this leads to high demands for basic training for teachers and to a framework for good and relevant development of competence through the career of teachers. In addition, we know that it is important how the newly educated teacher masters the transition to the profession. Nationally, we need to ensure that the provision of basic and continuing education meets the knowledge needs of the school. Locally, each school and school owner needs to ensure that competence is relevant and properly structured to meet the challenges there. In addition, each teacher shall know and learn that the various stages of training are designed to meet the individual’s needs. Municipalities and county councils have a fundamental legal responsibility to take care of the development of their teachers. Through a good staff policy that includes a conscious relationship both to recruitment and skills development, municipalities and county councils and other school owners must ensure that they are perceived as attractive employers both for newly educated teachers and for teachers who have been in school for a long time. Nevertheless, there is no need to underestimate the major national challenges of recruiting, maintaining and developing teachers. Norway shares these challenges with many other countries, and efforts are being made both nationally and internationally to identify the challenges and take action. I'm concerned that we have to try to see the big contexts, and that we have to be able to think strategically and in the long term. The representative proposal under consideration today consists of a number of individual proposals. I would say that there is no lack of respect for the commitment and for the characteristics of the proposals that they are good at meeting the challenges we face. So my main answer is that these have to be treated in a larger context, and I'll say a little bit more about it. The representative of Dørum called for ‘discipline’ from state councils and referred to former State councillor Lilletun. I would like to refer to the letter sent to the Committee by the Council of State, which he opens by saying, ‘I thank you for the extensive and interesting proposals of representatives for various measures’. We are looking with great interest and transparency at the proposals that have been put forward, and I can assure those who have promoted the matter here today that this is thoroughly assessed in two big messages, which we are doing very well. Let me comment on some pages that come to mind in this matter. The desire to extend the period of the «Competence for Development» strategy is mentioned. This strategy expires in 2008, which is also the last year of the launch of the Knowledge Lift. The strategy was developed to support the implementation of the reform and has thus had its time. It is therefore not appropriate to extend it in its present form. I record that the Right states that the strategy has not worked according to the intentions. I would dare to say that, all the time when the reports from 2007 have not yet arrived, and the evaluation from Fafo has not been completed. «Development competence» was developed in cooperation with the parties and signed by, among others, the National Council of the Right Kristin Klemet in 2004. Its intentions were not primarily professional further education, which the representatives of the Right are now calling for, it was reform-related post-training, which I heard from Eriksen Soreide in his post. Nevertheless, in this effort there have been earmarked funds for continuing training in natural and foreign languages, with a total of over 100 million. kr during the period. Just because the objectives of the strategy were linked to the reform, state planning for continuing education must now be reconsidered and efforts must be made with knowledge of today's needs. - President, do I only have five minutes?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1452	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1455	Sorry, I thought I had 10 minutes. What's important for me to say in advance here is that in common with many of the proposals that come from the opposition, they require an overall assessment. I can assure the Stortinget, and especially since the opposition parties, that we will take these proposals very seriously in the context of the two large-scale messages we are now working on - that is just before they are sent to Stortinget - a growing message of quality in education and a comprehensive report of the teacher's role and teacher's training.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1462	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1465	The Council of State says that the opposition's proposals are good, and that she will evaluate them carefully. Then I believe that the Council of State does not share the view of SV's representative Lena Jensen regarding these proposals, that they are unprofessional and only intended as 'demonstration proposals'. Have I understood that correctly?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1470	I understood the characteristic of the representative Lena Jensen that it was about making proposals now while it was known that the department was running messages in these areas, not that it was on the proposals themselves, but that they came at this stage in the process. I would like to stress very strongly that we are not sitting on any fence and waiting. We are fully working on these two messages, which are relevant in this context, and I would also like to make sure that the proposals made in this document are important elements of the work we are doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1475	So the proposals that the Right is behind with several other opposition parties were promoted on 5 October last year. It was a long time before the government had decided whether to promote a big message about teacher training, and it was also long before one had started talking about a big message about quality. That's why I also perceive the Council of State that she believes that the proposals are not unprofessional or demonstration proposals, as her party colleague Lena Jensen clearly believes. I want to grasp something that the representative Inger S. Enger said, namely that in Uppland can 40 pst. teachers will retire during a five-year period. She says, "We hope they don't." Well, this seems to be the government's strategy for teacher recruitment: sit still and hope it goes over. But how is the government going to be able to recruit more teachers to the posts that are now empty, not least to fill the needs we have as a result of an extended school day?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1482	There are two answers to that question. One is what I said in my post, and as other representatives have also been in this room, about the responsibility of the school owner in terms of development and, to some extent, measures to keep older teachers. I fully agree that it is important, but it is part of a school development, and to the extent that a more general perspective is needed on this, it will be an important part of the forthcoming communication on the role of teachers and teacher training. The second answer to the question of how to solve the recruitment problem is that of course there are a number of actions that have been ongoing all along, and it's not like you don't have students in the teacher's colleges today - we have a lot of them. We hope that we will be able to keep the recruiting up, while looking forward to getting even better suggestions in place - with the Stortinge's blessing - when the teacher's education message comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1489	Let me first comment on the proposal when you know that there is a message coming. I think you can look at the government's own party in the last period that it happened just as it was, but it was nevertheless included in a serious assessment. Let me stress this a little bit with teacher training and changes to it. In my post, I mentioned something about this with the district blockage. My first question is: does the Council of State see that there may be a challenge of over-specialisation in relation to being a teacher in small schools? The second thing I want to ask for a little more concrete is: the Christian People's Party has been in government, and we can see the challenge of making partial proposals. But there are some big overall suggestions, for example: this with the national recruitment plan. This is not something we have to adopt in detail. That's a lot more of the big, overall, we're going to start this, and it's urgent because we have a decrease in the number of applicants for education. Does the council see that this was something you could have gone for before you got it all on the table?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1498	I am very pleased that the representative Dagrun Eriksen, both now and in his contribution, clarified the need to see things in context. That's what we're trying to do. There is no easy way to better and more holistic thinking about teacher training. We have many variants today, and I can assure you that we are looking at both the big and the small schools in terms of the challenges we have, that we are looking at specialisations both in terms of trades and in terms of stages. It's an important task for us to keep a general teacher and a general teacher role, which is the core of our entire school system. Then we need specializations as well, and we need extra action because of the recruitment, but I think we're well served to spend time on that process and listen to suggestions that come from here and elsewhere, to get the best possible message to the Stortinget about the teacher's education and role.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1503	With today's snapshot that I took from the pulpit: in Haå municipality in Rogaland - and the council knows Rogaland - you find it absolutely necessary to raise the salary by 80,000 kroner to get hold of teachers. In Stavanger, you know, 200 teachers are missing. Several times in the past, it has been suggested by the Left and other parties that we should have a national obligating recruitment plan, first for high school and then for primary school. Of course, such a plan will have different elements. Time and again it has been voted down. Does the Council of State now see that there can be a basis for such systematic recruitment - i.e. not a renewal of teacher training - based on the training we have, based on the continuing training we have, to ensure that Norwegian schools get the teachers it needs, and that we are able to maintain the seniors who are willing to run, if you have wise measures? To put it another way: is the Council of State now prepared to assess a national recruitment plan for teachers both in high school and primary school?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1510	I can assure the representative that we are constantly assessing the situation at school in terms of recruitment, and also in terms of working conditions for the teachers. But I want to make it clear once again that the school owners, i.e. the municipalities and county councils have an important responsibility for the part of this which concerns the quality and development of the school and the framework conditions for which we are responsible, cf. what happens, for example: in Rogaland, to which the representative referred. We see the need for recruitment, but we also see the need for us, for example. as regards admission and development of the education itself, the right persons to be teachers. We also see a necessary balance in relation to recruitment to other important professions in society. We have a continuous overview and keep track of this. Our purpose is that we get the good teachers, the motivated, and those who can and will work in school in a good way. We want to make sure that both the quality notice and the teaching notice will take important account of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1518	Just like on Tuesday when we were dealing with unrest, trouble and lost time in school, we saw that the government parties refused to endorse the opposition's improvement proposal, even if they agreed with the intentions. The government parties are constantly referring to upcoming large-scale announcements. In this case, it is about recruiting and retaining labour, and the question then becomes: does the Council not see that school owners, due to such postponement and decision-making refusal, can continue to be lagging behind in the fight for skilled labour in an increasingly tight labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1525	I strongly reject the fact that the government refuses to make decisions and refuses to take a case up to a thorough assessment. That's exactly what we're doing in these cases. No one's made haste in such matters as this. It's about one of the most important things we have: getting good teachers in place in a school that's going to train the workforce of the future. I can assure both the Stortinget and the representative that this is a work that is demanding, which is very important and which has not been served by the swift and easy solutions. We take the proposals into consideration in an overall assessment and come back to Stortinget as soon as we have worked this through in a thorough and qualitative manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1530	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1533	Education and school have gained extra focus since the international and national results were presented last autumn. The results in themselves did not reveal much new. That's why I get a little tired when I hear teachers say that they feel this focus is being hoarded at themselves. This is where it has to change its attitude. I myself have worked in the public sector for 30 years, first at a hospital where we worked to obtain accreditation and ISO certification. Then we learned that deviation management and poor results were somewhat positive, because it revealed an improvement potential. It's only when you know what you're doing wrong that you have the opportunity to fix it and get better. I had this setting with me when I was going to implement a statutory internal control system in a nursing home I managed. Where the attitude had previously been that it was wrong to make mistakes, a rather silent one should be to avoid negative consequences, it is a challenge to reverse the trend so that a learner gets a learning business that strives to improve. Unfortunately, there is no equivalent requirement for a quality control system in the school. But the challenge is equally full of creating a positive culture to reveal an improvement potential. An important prerequisite for getting a good school is of course to have a good teacher who has the necessary professional weight and is safe on himself in the educational situation. The school shall have both a educational perspective and an educational perspective. It is important that all actors carry this with them in the development work, so that one focuses attention on both values, learning environment and results, as demonstrated by tests, tests and examinations. The most important factor for pupils’ learning outcomes and learning appetites is the teacher himself. This implies that the teacher is competent, knowledgeable and motivated. Such a teacher will in a good way stimulate students’ learning, curiosity and endurance and give them a mastery feeling. We have to create a school that's in time and that's in time. ICT developments have exploded in a few years. Many of today's teachers took their education before the date or at its speed. The good integration of the use of digital resources in the teaching arrangements of the individual teacher suggests that the teacher has sufficient confidence in the use of digital aids and learning materials. This means that the teacher must be digitally competent. Digital competence for a teacher is related to the ability to use ICT with good professional and educational understanding, to be source-critical, and to be aware when the use of digital resources can provide learning effects, and when the use of ICT is superfluous. It is therefore important to facilitate the enhancement of the digital competences of teachers. The identification of the individual teacher's competence is essential to enable school owners to put in place the necessary targeted actions in the field of continuing education and vocational training. In addition to the teacher’s self-confidence about the need for professional updating, teacher evaluation will be important for such monitoring. Properly done, teacher evaluation could help raise the quality of educational activities and increase the participation of pupils in school life. It is necessary to provide constructive feedback to the school and teachers, and not to make them feel like bullying or harassment by the employees. Many teachers have been in school all their lives, first as students and students themselves, and later as teachers. It is essential that teachers also have knowledge and understanding of developments and changes in business and society. Cooperation between primary, secondary and higher education and external actors such as knowledge centres and businesses must be intensified and professionalised. The school is the main provider of business, and therefore the future competence policy depends on early entry into school. Network construction is a keyword in this context. It is important to facilitate the exchange of skills and hospitation schemes. The opposition parties therefore promote a proposal to consider the introduction of positions in school according to the model of Professor 2 in higher education. The promise of knowledge has contributed to the provision of state resources for the development of competences to counties and municipalities. It is gratifying that, in 2007, the funds seem to have gone to the teacher group and to professional development to a greater extent than in the previous year, in line with the leaders of the strategy. The opposition will extend this effort for a further three years. A key prerequisite for success in the skills strategy for the Knowledge Commitment is the ability and willingness of school owners to organise the processes in order for teachers and school leaders to feel that the measures taken meet their perceived needs. Fafo has been commissioned by the Education Directorate to evaluate the strategy, and preliminary findings may indicate that school owners need to work more on the commitment and anchoring at school level. The proposal we are discussing here today is about recruiting and maintaining good teaching skills. Once again, we see that the government parties are not willing to adopt the proposals the opposition parties are promoting. It is regrettable that the Storting cannot unite to express agreement where there is actually agreement. So instead, we have to wait for further announcements from the Government. The school cannot afford to lose the fight for the labour force, therefore measures need to be put in place to ensure competence through recruitment and active policies to maintain and further develop good teaching skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1552	I noticed that the previous speaker claimed that there must be a change of attitude among the teachers. It will be on his behalf and on behalf of the Party of Advancement. If someone's busy making improvements in school, it's just the teachers. I think there's a lot of learning activities going on in schools. To suggest something else is a gross downgrading of the school and the teachers. There is little doubt that the teacher's role in creating an even better school is important. In the Workers' Party, we are pleased that we have an idealistic and committed teacher corps that extend far to make the school the best possible. So it's important when we're discussing school, that we don't contribute to creating a negative attitude among the teachers. Signals may indicate that some teachers feel like target disks, and some also claim that they are sorry to tell you that they work as teachers. We should put it on our hearts when we discuss how the school as a whole is going to get better. Everyone has a potential for improvement - central authorities, school owners, school managers, teachers, parents and students. Interaction and doing good to each other will be crucial if we are able to create better quality in school. In this respect, it is also important what we, as key political actors, say and do. Political rhetoric and black coloring of the school are hardly going to make the school any better. It's important to have it with you when you're discussing learning skills and recruiting new teachers, as we do today. It will undoubtedly be absolutely essential for the recruitment of several new, engaged and skilled teachers that a non-black-painting situation in Norwegian school. Sometimes I just wonder whether the purpose of the right-hand side black paint is to weaken the public school and thus facilitate private commercial operators. When it comes to teaching skills, we agree that this must be continuously put into practice. So do we. In this way, this government follows up the Quality Reform and ensures that teachers receive continuing training. There is also work to see how to improve teacher training. Given the common challenges facing our societies in creating a good school for the future, it is strange that the right side, and especially the Right and Advance Party, seem to be the most concerned with creating the worst possible impression of the school. In my opinion, when the opposition, or at least parts of the opposition, makes the school the ‘school’, it is a gross downgrading of the work done at school. We understand that both school owners, school leaders, teachers, parents, and students will feel this hurt. It hardly motivates extra efforts, and it hardly promotes increased quality in school. Then it is also produced as a problem that students thrive at school. I can't believe there's any problem. That must be a good starting point for even more learning. Well-being and motivation are, as you know, important factors for learning. If we are to make sure that more teachers stay in school, that they stay longer, and that new ones are recruited, we as central politicians must help build confidence in those who have to take the heaviest promises to get the school even better. Unfortunately, I don't think the rhetoric of the last few months from the opposition contributes to it. But it's never known to be too late to turn around. Thorbjørn Jagland reinstated here the president's office.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1570	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1573	The proposals on the left vote for, are based on love for school, love for teachers, and we have understood for the longest time -- as those who work at school have understood -- that there is a lot of teachers needed. Each time the Left and other parties promote proposals for a plan to ensure teachers, for example: For example, in the United Kingdom, the number of drugrelated deaths among drug users in the EU increased by about one third of the total number of drugrelated deaths among young people aged 15–64, while in the United Kingdom, the number of drugrelated deaths among young people aged 15–64 was estimated to be higher than in the United Kingdom, while in the United Kingdom, the proportion of drugrelated deaths among young people aged 15–64 was higher than in the United Kingdom, and the proportion of drugrelated deaths among young people aged 15–64. Make engineers become realists, we almost get an answer that reminds us of Heide Steen's famous submarine captain. If we want more teachers, we get the answer: are you playing ballalaika? In the last article by Freddy de Ruiter, we get the feeling that we're dealing with systematic black paint. This becomes a bit special, because if we are going to change into the right parliamentary form, it is that every time we promote an overall proposal for recruitment based on seniors, transition from other professions and what we all know is that we are proud of the school, that is, a systematic continuing training, we are either talking about something else, or we are told that there is a big message. And great news is in my life and based on my experience two things. There may be a long-term obliging plan, such as the research report has been, or there may be documents presented because the Councils are simply 1) blah, or 2) do not know what they are going to get money for. Then the staging message is an active way to walk the water. Time and again, we have felt that the big shots are being used by the red-green government in this way, while, of course, the messages as the research report has been used can be used in two ways: almost like a long-term plan, because the Storting follows up with concrete proposals, which bind governments. The government's strategy has gradually become as follows: the government parties in the hall are a little laid-back and a little offensive to the opposition. Then come the councils and are cozy, yes hinted sympathetic in all their style--they should have--but the content disappears in some coming big message that comes in a while. In this way, we are not even close to having a debate on what we should give priority to, and how we should prioritise it. So when I'm engaged, and other members of opposition parties are engaged, it's because we're just in this grip of power. When this seizure of power is used so systematically, I tell you about it from the pulpit in the way I do. So we're going to get rehearsal exercises. We want to keep on dunking and dunking until we get a national recruitment plan for teachers in primary and secondary schools, and until we get a systematic, competent continuing education. Everyone here agrees that school is the most important single factor in school. Yes, but why in the world can't you spend the money first on enough teachers and good teachers? Why can't you do that? Or is it perhaps because some still need some kind of social worker conversion after the last election campaign was conducted by the Red-Green parties on what kind of meal variants were the most important ones to enter school? Is that what it's all about? That should not be the case, because collective self-criticism has been taken from both the SV and the Workers' Party - now the knowledge has to focus. Then we write in message after message that the teacher is most important. Then we come to the measures that make us honor the teachers -- and as the teachers know they need -- and then we either get discouraged, or we're referred to a big message. I keep this post just because I want to eat to the fronts, and because without a clear rhetoric, it's going to be totally dull in politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1584	I am quite fresh in this room, but I have always had great respect for the national assembly and the competence of the national assembly. That is why I was a little surprised when the representative Lena Jensen concluded that it is unthinkable to make concrete proposals. It must then be that the SV was at least unprofessional until 2005 - that in 2005 they suddenly got a serious cut over themselves. I think that is disrespectful of the Storting. And now it is that we are not going to make concrete proposals, but are going to discuss the whole of big messages. Then it's time to ask, where has the overall strength of this government been in the previous two and a half years? Now it's a year and a half again. It was because they had previously made proposals for an obliging training plan for teachers. Yes, it may be, but in the government they have voted against the exact same proposal. I don't know if it's more serious than what the representative Jensen tried to illustrate to some opposition parties. She also thought it was time for the opposition to think politics. Yeah, maybe. In our opinion, some people may have thought politics beyond what this government has done. The proposal we are discussing today was promoted in October - long before the big messages referred to here were planned, at least to Stortinget. Demonstration proposals don't give a better school, no. But action gives a better school. Concrete action provides a better school. It is the opposition who, on a case-by-case basis, proposes concrete action. And it's the government parties that say no in exactly the same cases, we have to look at this in more detail, we have to consider this further. The time is running out for those students who are in school today. Government parties should also be included. I do not think it is right that representatives from the government parties contribute to weakening the position of the Stortinge by saying that it is unthinkable to make concrete proposals. It is unthinkable not to make concrete proposals. I also think it's interesting that the representative of big business Freddy de Ruiter presents it as if the opposition by swearing the school should have had the intention to facilitate private players in the school market. It's a relatively unprofessional claim. So it's not the opposition's purpose to weaken the school. Had it been, we wouldn't have been so concerned about promoting the concrete proposals to make the school better. The goal is for the school to be the best possible for the students who go there today, and then it has to be more than rhetoric from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1600	It's not very often I get upset by sitting in the hall and joining in a debate like this, but I did today. In fact, I am outraged when representatives from the government parties characterise opposition proposals as unprofessional, simply because we want a broad debate on school content. After a 2005 election campaign in which SV's contribution to improving school was that the students would get warm salmon, not to talk about a election campaign where the representative Lena Jensen's contribution to a better school was to give all the students a free mobile phone, I think it is relatively unprofessional of a representative to characterize the concrete proposals of other parties on school improvement as unprofessional, and not least to call for a more constructive debate. The reason we don't get a constructive enough debate is that the government parties reject any proposal we make, because they don't want to go into reality, pending big-time announcements that come once in the future. When the representative of Lena Jensen claims that this government has been clearing-houses after the previous government in terms of general teacher training, the representative could not have read the evaluation of the education - precisely because we introduced a new teacher training that the institutions have not followed up, partly because of the lack of management of the institutions. It's not because the education itself was not good enough, but because it's not being followed up by the institutions. When several of the government parties in this room claim that it is completely unnecessary to present proposals now to improve teacher training, I think it is also a very defensive attitude. Thus, the government has spent two and a half years, from the evaluation coming in the autumn of 2007, to the presentation of a big message around the turn of the year 2008-2009, to gather on what might come up in concrete proposals. So those teachers don't get out of school in many, many years yet. That patience and that time does not have the opposition. That is why we want to press the Government to make some concrete proposals now that can help improve general teacher training. That's what the government should think of as a handshake. They should not view it as unprofessional or a little constructive proposals. On the contrary, this is the opposition's attempt to move the Government in the right direction and to get constructive things for general teacher training as well. I also notice that the representative Freddy de Ruiter believes that the opposition parties have a great interest in building up the public school to build up private alternatives. With respect to reporting, I don't know if I'm going to take it very seriously. If there is one thing the previous government did, it was to facilitate a major reform of basic education, that is, the promise of knowledge, a reform for more and better learning for all students. If it's not a strengthening of the public school, I don't know. Sometimes I could wish that the representatives of the government parties could use at least a little bit of the time they spend characterising those who want to choose an alternative, instead of strengthening the public school. Then we could get a better public school. We don't get that using the rhetoric that government parties are now using.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1618	SV is concerned with the proposals that are being put forward in the Chamber today, not in October, November or December. One of the proposals under consideration today is the continuation of the competence development programme. Yes, the competence development programme shall be continued and notified by the Government. We have announced that you will return with some kind of continuation of the type of program in the Storing Message that comes in two months. The majority of the committee wrote this in a note in its opinion. This is what I call unprofessional in the opposition, because it can also be involved in a debate on the content and the direction you want such a type of continuation of the competence programme to take. The right in the hall today has announced that they are very pleased with the teacher training that is today. It's just that the institutions don't follow it up. But SV does not agree with this. We are doing well in a process of changing and improving the teacher training that is today. The evaluation from NOKUT has come. It's very clear. Governments are in close dialogue with the various educational institutions in order to make rapid changes to the challenges they face. Governments have reduced a range of experts, professionals, researchers, teachers, students, etc. which would provide a concrete feedback on what you want to change in teacher training. This committee of experts has come back. Various types of trials have been started in the field of teacher training and are well-informed. There will be a big message about teacher training. What is important is that you do not have a piecewise and divided proposal. What the opposition today invites the Storting to do is to take piece by piece and split suggestions, in relation to a comprehensive teacher training, up to voting. Teacher training is so important that we need to have a thorough and comprehensive process, a process in which I want to invite the opposition to a broad political debate. This government has strengthened the municipal economy. We have invested in continuing education. We have introduced free teaching materials in high school. We've been investing in Young Entrepreneurship. We have been committed to stronger cooperation between the company and the school. We have increased the number of hours. We've introduced fruit and vegetables in school, because nutrition and learning belong together. I could have framed a lot of things like this government has done. We're in a good process and we're in a good process of creating a better school for our children.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1629	For the first time in a very long time, we in our country have had a proper debate on school. That's why I find it sad to both read an interview with the Minister of Knowledge in some newspapers and hear representatives from the government parties here call this debate political rhetoric and black paint of the school. For the first time, we're now going to discuss more than whether we're going to have food or not in school. For the first time, we're in and we're discussing the content of school and not just the difference between private and public schools. This should have been a warm welcome, because it's this commitment we need to create a good school. The government parties here today say that we have to get back to this in a larger context when we get to messages. My experience with this government is that when we get to the messages, and the opposition is ready again, with new and good suggestions, the government parties vote no then as well. It seems quite discouraging when a person wants to join and create a good school and make good sense of how it can be done. It's strange to hear the representative Jensen, who says: we're going for an extension of the development of competence, but we won't vote for it. It seems incredibly strange to people out there. When the Government and the government's representatives themselves, like the Prime Minister and the Council of State, promote five-point lists here and five-point lists there on how to improve the school, it does so before making these messages where to see everything in context. Then you can conclude and give concrete action on how to do things. I think this government must begin to move respect into this room, where the decisions and commitment for the good school are; it's not just out in the media it's going to happen. We need to work together to create the good public school. I would like to repeat once again: Had the Socialist Left Party been treated in that way, through all the proposals and individual decisions and everything that came with in the last period, I think the level of frustration had been incredibly high. But on the contrary, they met with us agreeing on this, we want to work together on a number of points. So let me end by using the quote that Freddy de Ruiter used: it's never too late to turn. I think it's going to be very late before this government turns around.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1645	Today we have had a thorough review of a proposal for a representative. Many of these matters have been said by the government parties that we will come back to when working with a big message. This is what Mr. Dørum calls an act of power. Then it is tempting to ask: how many times did Minister of Justice Dørum do well to vote in favour of a proposal by the Socialist Left Party, the Central Party or the Workers' Party during the last part-session? Is it the case that we do not accept representative proposals over the table while you are in opposition, calling it a thorough process while you are in government? I think it's getting a careful review of this in a big message absolutely is taking these matters seriously. The representative of Dørum has also participated in, during this week, attaching to the protocol matters to which he will come back and evaluate at a later stage. So I think here you use some rules when you're in opposition, and other rules in position.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1650	It would be interesting to get a statistics on it. Maybe we'll work it out. I am not so sure that a violent political tip is positive. I note that the opposition is upset, but I should not forget that there are many people who are upset out in School-Norway about something they might experience as a stamp. So we're going to be careful in the political rhetoric and the political debate, because getting a political win doesn't necessarily give a win in School Norway. That's what I warned you in my post. It is not necessarily related only to the proposals put forward today. These are, to a large extent, proposals, but they have been seen in connection with the political debates and rhetoric of the last few months. Then I think it's going to be hard to recruit new teachers for school. I hardly think that there are many who want to go to a school that is perceived as bad etc. So we have a responsibility to build trust and build faith in the school, where all actors move in the same direction. In this way, I agree with the representative of Dagrun Eriksen. Obviously, we all have the best possible school, but then it's actually important what we say. I also have to say that you get upset about the characteristics that have been used several times from some opposition parties in the last few months, such as. «The School of Toys». What kind of signal does it send out to the teachers, what kind of signal does it send out to the students and the parents, that we have a playground in Norway? Of course we don't. But everyone agrees that school can get better. So finally, the issue of privatisation, and that the previous government strengthened the quality. We agreed on the strengthening of quality, but we strongly disagreed with the cuts in the municipal economy that led to many municipal budgets and primary schools being strangled. We strongly disagreed with the liberalisation of the law that would lead, if we had not stopped it, to several thousand new school places within, among other things. The John Bauer schools had got footholds, which would definitely weaken the public school. So we're wondering if it's now a new strategy to bring forward the private, commercial actors. I also record that if the Right Party and the Advance Party come to power at the next election, it is free for private, commercial actors like the John Bauer Schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1661	I'm not going to go into history writing, but under minority parliamentarism, it's simply wise to have a dialogue with the Storting. It should have been under majority parliamentaryism, too. For this reason, proposals were adopted several times in the period 2001-2005 on the initiative of the Chamber, including in particular: because many of the initiatives were good. It was in areas like violence in close relationships and doing something for children and young people. There was a debate about it. It also applies to quite demanding parts of criminal law, because it was absolutely necessary to create an understanding. I actually remember once when I didn't use power, but spent quite a lot of time ensuring broad support, among other things. from the Labour Party when it came to getting a police directorate in Norway. The shape was calm, because we realized that we were going to live with the solutions for a long time. What now raises the debate here is not a series of different proposals, but there are proposals relating to the following sentence, on which the whole Committee agrees: ‘In the view of the Committee, the teacher is the main individual factor in Norwegian school.’ That's what the Church, Education and Research Committee writes. When you write it, and repeatedly make suggestions about the teacher, whether it's systematic continuing training or recruitment plans, and it's not being followed up, of course, you try parts of it. It is with the background of this I commented that you are being subjected to a seizure of power. Because if the government parties had an alternative policy, they could either have written it in here or they could when we, for example, come to news, submit the proposals. What we feel is that the government parties' task in the hall is to avoid the opposition's criticism of the Government. Fair enough if that's the case, but then you can't get to ride on that horse that you have an outstretched hand. Then it's the real duty of the opposition to be the propellor of the batch and to agree to produce what is. Both in this case and in previous cases, the opposition parties have been concerned that the teacher is the most important single factor, therefore the proposal to recruit when we see that there are too few teachers, therefore the proposal to strengthen competence - not because we have something against the teachers. For everyone who has spoken to Norwegian teachers knows that this will be received with enthusiasm, and it will be received as a handshake from society. When it comes to local economy, I think it's going to be an interesting debate in the future, among other things. Because now -- without trying to analyze why, because I have a sense of -- actually start to cut. You can see that in studies from KS, where you're told that in every municipality you're essentially going to bet on school, but in a terrible number of them you're going to suck on teachers, and in some places it's actually a struggle if you're going to have fruit and green, or more teachers. My party traps in that conflict then select more teachers, because then you come to a value choice. Is it true, then, that teachers are the most important individual factor, or not? That's how the debate makes sense, and that's how it also moves. This isn't about black paint, but it's just about making sure that the teacher, as the most important single factor, gets a handshake both through good further education, and that there's enough of them. And it's the responsibility of the authorities to take it seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1677	Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1680	After the representative de Ruiter got the rest pulse back after first being high in his previous post, he is now very concerned to be cautious in the political debate. I fully agree with that. But then I believe that the representative de Ruiter must also have a minimum degree of backwardness in relation to what he says about the politics of other parties. It has never been the politics of the Right Party or the other opposition parties, nor will it ever be, that it should be a -- as he calls it - free from commercial actors on the private school front. This is what the representative de Ruiter knows very well, so he should be too good to come up with that kind of characteristic. The reason why the Right and the other opposition parties promote the proposals we make is because we have a desire for good development in public school. I think it is particularly important when representatives from the government parties say that they should be pressed to adopt proposals over the table. Our proposals have been there since 5 October last year. They have been lying out longer than an average big message does, and they have had a good opportunity to go into the proposals carefully. What is paradoxical, and what opposition parties point out today, is that these are proposals for which the government says they are. But they still choose to vote against it. That is why I see this debate we have had today, so far it has been good, but it has also been revealing what is the Government's strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1692	Anders Anundsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1695	I think the representative Anniken Huitfeldt put the nail on his head, I had almost said -- hit the nail on his head in his short post here, when she really reduces it all to a political game. That's what she actually did when she threw the ball over to the previous government to see how many proposals they voted for in that period. If that is where we are in the debate on Norwegian school, then I am very concerned. This government has repeatedly invited to a good and close dialogue with the opposition parties in the United Kingdom on important issues, and they have done so in this debate as well. We're serious about that. Then we too, as opposition, have to be taken seriously. We haven't been in this context. I think it's sad if we're still going to have it this way in Norwegian debate about school that the opposition is voting for what everyone is for, while the government parties say they are in favour, and vote against what they are in favour of. And in the next debate, we are discussing political contempt. There's a context here.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1702	Lena Jensen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1705	It is important for the opposition to promote proposals, and it is important that the position should promote proposals in the Norwegian economy. The SV and I have raised the issue is that when the opposition comes up with proposals that the Government has announced that it will deliver a notice in a few months' time, there is something else. Then you can consider characterising this as a demonstration proposal. I'm very concerned that we're going to have a good dialogue. We're going to discuss, and we're going to discuss content. We're going to take each other on politics, not on rhetoric, because it's so important to have a teacher training that provides the tools that teachers need to be a safe and professional teacher. It is important that we get a teacher training in place, and that we make changes in the current teacher training, based on both the evaluations and the input received from various sectors, as well as from teachers, parents and students. It is important that we take it further - but discuss politics, not rhetoric.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1712	Just a few comments - first to the representative Dørum: It is clear that the level of the municipal economy is probably not where everyone could have wanted it to be. There will always be a need for maybe more. But that the level today is in a completely different place from what it would have done if the development under the previous government had continued, there is no doubt about it. To the representative Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide: With the policy of the previous government, we would have thousands of private school places, among others. John Bauer in the cities--the cities would be flooded by John Bauer schools. John Bauer can hardly be described as a non-profit. I also think of a future where the Right is dependent on the Advance Party, which wants the private schools to be able to make dividends. So I imagine a future where you get private schools that establish themselves in Norway -- commercial -- that take dividends. Recent media surveys have also shown that this may be the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1721	I think it's okay that it's a school policy debate, a debate from different political points of view. I just want to clarify when it comes to the government's work on these issues, which is about two messages to the Storting, which is under very active work, that we are very open to take into account the assumptions, the arguments and the assessments made by the opposition parties. I want to make it clear that we need the debate, we need to build on different political opinions. But I ask for an understanding that, both in the quality work at school and not least in the work on teacher training and a broad review of the teacher's important role in school, we need the overall assessment, which also consists of the input from the opposition, in this proposal. I just want to make sure that both the government parties and the opposition need to take part in the important debate leading up to what is to be done in the Grand Duchy after these messages, and that we are open to and take seriously the different points of view that have emerged. However, I ask for an understanding that we cannot deal with proposals individually. Some of them are a little bit more complete than others. But many of the proposals that have come forward here are very specific and delimited, and we have to put them into a larger whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1731	It is in such a debate that many themes emerge. But there is one theme that should not be contradicted: It has not been allowed to serve in Norwegian school. And as long as the Left and Right, who have agreed on a bill, have anything to say in this Parliament, it will not be allowed either. Those who are going to try to bypass it will be taken for trying to cheat. I'd like to say it so crystal clear. Nor will it be appropriate to be able to dump applications to take over the public school offer in, for example: Tromsø, Trondheim or Stavanger. There was a clarification, a clarification, in the old law on high school when the matter was being dealt with last year, just to ensure that it was not possible. We, who had made the old law, thought it was not the intention then, but we wanted to make sure it was clear. Now let that ghost rest, it's not going to come back. I would recommend the speakers from the Workers' Party to leave it buried where it is buried, and concentrate the debate on the public school. That's the theme here. And then I'd like to say that when we first get voted down -- and that's fair -- I'm glad that the Council of State is accelerating the job in a way that we expect from a Norwegian state council. I would like to say that, at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1740	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2128]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1755	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from the Council of State in the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1764	After the previous debate, it is very gratifying to be able to say that there is an overall committee in favour of better conditions for students who have children in their studies. Students who have children are subject to different sets of rules. The different sets of rules don't always work optimally and don't necessarily harmonize with each other. In the setting we ask the department to look at this. The Law of Higher Education specifies: «A student who has a child during the studies shall be entitled to leave from the studies during pregnancy and to care for children.» It is particularly important that the institution facilitates the pregnancy, both in the context of the prenatal examination and in the context of the re-initiation of the studies after completion of the leave. The institution's responsibility does not imply that the student is entitled to start the study immediately after completion of leave, but that the institution should facilitate this as far as practicable. Today, it is not well arranged for students who have children in the middle of the studies. In some educational institutions, it is difficult to have an examination postponed or accelerated. Differences in the practice of institutions are referred to in the interpretation of this paragraph of the Law on Higher Education. In addition, it is difficult to take part in the study while on leave. An overall committee asks in the ‘Ministry consider giving students who have a term in the middle of the examination period, right to an examination or examination at an earlier date’. With such a right for students, institutions will have to interpret the legislation equally. It will provide greater flexibility for students who are waiting for children. One part of such work will be to coordinate the legislation to which the students are subject. It is a young piece of legislation and arrangements, in which it is difficult to identify. The Code of the State Loan Fund and the Law on Higher Education should be more coordinated. The well-being thing in Oslo and the Student Parliament in Oslo have focused on the fact that students on maternity leave are not defined as students. Issues related to students on maternity leave, including: how they are still able to make use of the social welfare services while on leave should become central to the work that the Ministry is now starting. Good welfare arrangements for young children’s parents are central. That is why I am very pleased that the Christian People's Party has put forward proposals for better organisation and that we are voting for that proposal today. Students who have children need better framework conditions. I am particularly pleased that we are now asking the Council of State to look specifically at student papers and their situation. I believe that they are not well cared for in today's legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1786	The Progress Party sees it as positive that the Stortinget looks at the problem of students who have children in the course of study, and the proposal points to a number of current areas we need to look at. Students who have children during their studies come into a special situation, as they can not formally retain their status as students if they take maternity leave. That this creates problems for the individual, there is no doubt about it. Students who have children are financially vulnerable. That is why we should take a closer look at this field. We don't know much about it. After the introduction of the Quality Reform, we see that demand for more examinations through the semesters, more use of mandatory attendance and more seminaring has come. This has made it a major challenge for pregnant women to meet the requirements. We also see different arrangements for when the exam can be taken, depending on the place of study to which you belong, when the term, for example. coincides with the examination time. Many then want to finish the exam as soon as possible, rather than waiting until after the leave. In such cases, there should be a right to expedite or postpone examinations until before or after birth. Another important issue is the organisation of exams in relation to birth and studies. This applies to both men and women. We see that men who want to take part in the maternity leave, especially in parts of the semester, also face problems. So this isn't a problem that's only related to the woman. It is also important to consider the conflict between maternity leave and compulsory education when shorter leave is needed. The Progress Party also asks that various issues be addressed for Norwegian students who have children during education abroad. Internationalisation is an important theme for the Committee. Therefore, we know that ensuring good quality in higher education is one of the most important areas of internationalisation. Our wish is to increase the number of students taking all or part of the education abroad. It is of great importance that different incentives be used to facilitate this, even if you are in a family situation that is both time and economical. It is therefore much more necessary to facilitate mutual agreement with the foreign university, so that pregnancy does not hinder the conduct of the studies. We want the Ministry to include in its review an assessment of the conversion scheme of loans to scholarships based on earned credits for students who have been part-time ill. We also believe that there will be an advantage to a review of existing legislation with a view to improving the coordination of different provisions, in line with what the rapporteur pointed out. After all, the most important thing for us is that it's actually possible to say, well, thanks, both of them-- to children and to studies. Finally, I would like to make a brief comment on what the rapporteur said about this proposal being a unanimous committee behind it, and that is good. But if there had been entirely concrete proposals in this matter, and not just a proposal to send it to the department for further processing, I personally believe that they had been voted down.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1807	It is very gratifying that there is a great deal of political consensus about further developing welfare schemes, for which SV has always worked. SV's objectives are equal opportunities for different people. It requires not only equal rights, but also that the framework conditions are such that there are really equal opportunities for everyone. Being a parent is perhaps the greatest thing under a human being. It's amazing, not only for those who become mothers or fathers, but also for society, that new world citizens see the light of day. Our future depends on young people choosing to become parents. It is the coming generations that are to fill the many tasks we have in the future. In fact, we are facing a rather dramatic situation in order to be able to meet the needs of industry for labour in the years to come. We need all the children we can have. Norway is in the top level in Europe with regard to the number of children born. It's just the welfare systems that we have, that make us have that location. It is an objective of the knowledge nation of Norway that more and more young people are taking education, preferably long-term higher education. Many students do not complete their studies until they are well over 30 years old. It goes without saying that we'll get a lot of people who will consider becoming parents while they're still students. It is important that the framework conditions are such that one chooses to say yes to it, depending on whether one is in the middle of a study. Then we have to have a code that is interconnected. Then we have to have mechanisms that make the different educational institutions' interpretation of the legislation the same, and that there are no different practices from institutions to institutions. It is therefore necessary to review current legislation with a view to harmonising and non-discrimination between students. Equal rights to higher education are very important, but it is equally important to ensure equal opportunities for higher education for all, including those who choose to have children while they are students.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1822	Since I was quite upset with the government parties in the previous case, I will start this matter by thanking the case rapporteur for a good piece of work. I think it's positive that we can get together on this particular matter. The background for the Christian People's Party choosing to present this proposal was an enquiry from the Welfare Council in Oslo. They could tell us what challenges, coincidences and problems students have children, or are waiting for children, meet in the education system. They feel that society is giving conflicting signals in terms of women and pregnancy. It is expected that women will be able to have children early. At the same time, the schemes add up to the true opposite. Fortunately, more and more women choose to take a good and long education, but the support schemes for pregnancy during the study have not followed this development. I believe that society has not arranged enough for women to choose to have children during their studies. It must be possible to combine having children in higher education. Equal rights to education and equal rights to complete the studies must also apply to students with children during their studies. In the proposal we have shown many different challenges students with children encounters that make it difficult for students to combine children and studies in a good way. This applies, inter alia, to: the economy, the legislation on leave and the requirements of the Quality Reform. Many students with children experience a difficult financial situation, and that is the same principle as for students as for employees. Compensation is granted for loss of income or in the case of loss of student funding. It's just that students initially have much less than most employees. If you stand between your studies and your job, or have lost your right to study support, you only get one-off support and child welfare, which is almost impossible to live on. We in the Christian People's Party believe that the one-time benefit should be raised to 2 G, and that will be a good help for this group as well. In addition, it is difficult to get a job as a pregnant woman, as the employer usually does not want a worker to leave within a short period of time. The law does not allow discrimination against pregnant women, but unfortunately many have experienced this in practice. I believe that there should be a clear and common regulatory framework for parental specific rights in the course of study. However, responsibility lies not only with the education authorities. It is also essential that each apprenticeship should take the issue more seriously and show flexibility in the field of parental responsibilities. I believe that students who are pregnant should not be in doubt about what premises and procedures are underlying, if they want to take leave. Today, unfortunately, there are different practices around the rules of leave for study places between and even between faculties. The issue also has a gender perspective. Having children during the study period delays women’s studies, therefore, adequate arrangements must be made so that women are not made losers in the course of the study. I believe that the absence of the right to a deferred examination at birth is an example of women's rights being insufficiently guaranteed. This means that women spend longer time than is necessary in the studies and that they come out later in the workplace than men. Such rights should therefore be guaranteed by the Law of Higher Education and should not be left to the discretion of the individual place of study. Women's rights here will often be displaced for economic reasons. At the same time, I would like to stress the importance that the Ministry also notes that the Committee requests that the arrangements existing in cases where father is a student be also assessed. The sooner dad and kids get hooked up, the better the relationship gets later in life. Many feedback has come to us from students of fathers who have difficulties with e.g. to be able to provide for it, in particular in the case of leave. Let me end by saying that I'm very happy that a joint committee today will take the challenges of students with children seriously, and that the department will carry out a comprehensive review of the different regulations for students who have children in their studies, as to how these can work optimally and in harmony with each other. The field needs a comprehensive review, so that there can be security for women and men in the course of study and better opportunities for family creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1850	I'm really just going to take the floor to thank the Christian People's Party, because I think this time they had a very good proposal. It's shown by everyone supporting it. To be honest, in fact, there is a more twisted code - or lack of legislation - than one would believe in this area, in 2008. So it's good that this was taken care of, because we want people to have children -- many of them -- and we want them to have a good education. Then it is important that we do something about the legislation, and that students who have children are offered decent conditions. It is important to coordinate legislation in order to make it easier to deal with it. It also refers to the proposal for a decision. The Committee would like to look at all the pages of this topic. I will mention a small example that has come to my table in this matter - just to illustrate how difficult and how strange it is in a way. This applies to women who get sick during pregnancy. In addition, if they are - let's say - so unfortunate that they have a part-time job that gives entitlement to sickness benefits, then the rules of the Loan Fund have been designed so that if they receive sickness benefits from the employer, they do not receive sickness benefits from the Loan Fund as a grant, but as a loan, despite what they receive from the employer, they may be much less than the amount they had received from the grant scheme. It shows that it is important to address this. Our friend, who got sick during pregnancy, was told from Lånekassa that she could not accept sickness benefits from the company. And that's not okay-- for serious businesses. This is just meant as an example, but it shows that it is very important that this was taken into account by the Christian People's Party. And it was absolutely right and necessary that the entire committee support to get a review of this important area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1859	On the basis of a proposal from the Christian People's Party, a Joint Church, Education and Research Committee has asked the Government to review the framework conditions for students who have children in their studies. The Committee believes that better provision should be made for students who have children while in education. In doing so, the Committee focuses on an important issue for a number of reasons. Firstly, for students who have children during their studies, action is important for the principle that everyone should have equal opportunities for higher education. This principle is important not only for individuals but also because research and education need to attract the best minds. Secondly, the initiative has an important aspect of gender equality, while supporting the families of young children. There are already several good measures for students who have children during the study period, but the Committee asks for an assessment of whether changes can be made that will improve overall the framework conditions for this group of students. The Committee's recommendation refers to a number of different legislation that the Ministry now needs to review. We have also seen that there are some weaknesses in the existing arrangements. At some points work has been done well in the ministry. A review of the Law on Higher Education is currently being carried out and, in this context, looks at the rules on the right to leave from studies and examinations due to birth and the possibility of taking up the studies after completion of leave. The Ministry will also assess the study funding legislation in the light of this. The Ministry plans to present proposals for changes to the Law of the University and Higher Education of the Grand Duchy during the autumn. Furthermore, the Committee points out that students on leave should have the possibility of retaining their rights to use student cooperation services, and this is something that the Ministry is now considering in the preparation of regulations for the new law on student relations, as recently adopted by the Stortinget. This Act enters into force on 1 August 2008, and the Ministry has the objective of applying the regulations from the same date. In addition to assessments related to changes in these different legislations, I will give the Storting an overall feedback in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1876	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1879	In working life, we talk about an inclusive working life, and we have facilitated and stimulated workers to take advantage of their residual working capacity. In the case of students who are pregnant or who have, after birth, e.g.: birth depression or sick child, it's like 100 pst. search message and full leave. The loan fund ignores whether the student produces less than 30 study credits. Does the Council of State see the importance of also facilitating the possibility for those who fall into this category to benefit from their residual study capacity, so that they may be able to complete their studies earlier?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1888	I have noticed the differing views that have emerged in dealing with this matter as regards what is considered to be getting sick, in addition to normal pregnancy. I'm very concerned that we're going to look at this in the assessments we're doing now, so that we also get this into the overall review. Because it shouldn't be that because you're a student, you don't get the benefit of the arrangements we have in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1894	I was first going to ask a little about the time perspective, but there the council came to me in advance and gave good feedback on it. That's a question we get from many of the students who are concerned about this matter, so we can now pass it on. I want to challenge the Council of State that in the proposal we write something about economics, and the study funding is an important part of it. My question is about the Council of State, for example. could talk to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality and look at the level of the one-off benefit, because it is a challenge today that parents who have children who are not related to the labour market currently receive only NOK 30000, and there is not a sum that makes it possible to buy equipment or to keep it going. My recommendation to the Council of State is: could the Council of State expect to talk to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, and look at the level of one-off social assistance?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1903	As for the first part of the question, which I answered in the post, the department has also received input from the student relations and the welfare council, so we see the seriousness of the proposals that have been promoted here, and which we will of course include in the thinking about changing the law. I can also answer the second question asked by the representative, that I have very good cooperation with the Minister for Children and Gender Equality in several areas, and of course has nothing to do with addressing the question of this support scheme with her.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1910	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2129]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1929	In the course of the debate, 30 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-5, from Tord Lien on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 6, by Tord Lien on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 7-12, from Peter Skovholt Gitmark on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 13-22, by Mr Tord Lien, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposals Nos. 23 and 24, from Peter Skovholt Gitmark on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 25, by Peter Skovholt Gitmark on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 26-29, by John Thune on behalf of the Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 30, from Gunnar Kvassheim on behalf of the Left First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 30, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests that consideration be given to the conservation of the coastal zone and to natural and outdoor values for increased weights when driving roads and railways’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e1971	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 26-29, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote its own case for the Storting on how to reduce the need for large-scale nature interference in high voltage lines, as well as alternative cable/sea cable solutions in particularly vulnerable areas.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The Government requests the transfer of the micro- and mini-power concession authority under the Water Resource Act to the State.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government, in the context of the 2009 draft budget, to provide for a significant tax exchange with a reduction in the tax burden on labour and an increase in the tax on consumption and environmentally harmful behaviour.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for a mechanism in which individuals and businesses must request the telephone directory in order to receive it.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e2003	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13-22, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 13 sounds: «The Government requests the transfer of the concession authority for hydropower plants with installed power up to 3 MW to the primary municipalities.» Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government requests that all passenger cars without a catalyst be included in the forthcoming enhanced parcel system.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government requests proposals for increased local management of the 100 metre belt both in the coastal zone and along watercourses.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government requests the removal of small power plants and clean forest highways from the definition of ‘diluted technical intervention’ when the measurement parameter ‘intervention-free nature’ is measured.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to include all major predatory species, as well as the defence of dogs and their own land, in the design of new Section 11 of the Wildlife Act, and to bring this to the attention of Stortinget, so that the law can come into force before 10 September 2008.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a country-wide assessment of the impact of current predatory policies on the quality of life of the population of outlying municipalities.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government asks the government to reconsider and reduce the stock target for the bear and to submit a case on this to the Stortinget no later than spring 2009.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case for the Storting to introduce individual-based stock targets to replace the juvenile stock targets it has today by spring 2009.’» Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to abolish the management area of the wolf.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to refer to the necessary legislative changes to give the Food Safety Authority access to breeding permits as a means of reducing animal diseases in the case of buffaloes.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e2066	There is a vote on proposal No. Twenty-five, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to promote the necessary legislative proposals to delegate to each municipality the concession authority for all power plants up to 1 MW.’ The President assumes that the Progress Party now wants to support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e2083	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 23 and 24, from the Right Party and the Christian Party. Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to make appropriate proposals for action if the stock of wolves with Sweden exceeds the stock or if the burden is more concentrated than at the time of the settlement of predators in the Storting.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case for the amendment of Section 11 of the Viltslagen, Emergency Army Paragraph, in time for the law to come into force before or coincide with 1 May 2008.’ The President assumes that the Progress Party now wants to support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e2107	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7-12, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to take the initiative in setting up industry-driven return schemes for boats, caravans and heavy goods vehicles and buses.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the municipalities to authorise the introduction of low-carbon zones in areas under the Road Traffic Act in order to reduce local air pollution.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The biggest demand of the Government in the context of the 2009 State budget is to raise significantly the level of effort in the field of forest protection.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the Government to follow up the decision of the Storting to increase the capital of the Norwegian Cultural Memory Fund to 1.4 billion in 2009. crowns.’» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to propose a legislative ban on the landfill of biodegradable waste from 1 January 2009.’» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government requests that particulate filter requirements be introduced by the Government in all new diesel cars’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e2150	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to promote a case for the Stortinget by spring 2008 at the latest, with a strategy for industrial development and jobs in municipalities with a high level of protection. Such a strategy should consist of: 1.to identify which municipalities have a high level of protection bonding or other Community objectives;2.to develop a categorised approach to municipalities by degree of banding/protection;3.to establish national guidelines for all departments with a protection/area use authority so as to take account of the fact that municipalities with a high level of binding needs will also have room for economic development;4.to establish national strategies for the development of nutrition in combination with protection;5.to assess whether a specific local compensation should be introduced to municipalities that take a very large part of the burden of protection from the community.»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e2181	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1-5, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian Party and Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to step up its efforts in the field of oil protection in the 2009 draft State budget.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up an action plan to ensure the stepping up of efforts to clean up pollution in fjords, watercourses and ports.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider reintroducing the right to deduct from the budget for compulsory maintenance of protected buildings and to bring this to the attention of the Stortinge in the context of the 2009 budgetary procedure.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider extending the system of aid to archaeological excavations by means of less private measures to business.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote a comprehensive communication on the consequences of, and measures against, noise pollution during 2008.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e2250	In the course of the debate, seven proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-4, from Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 5, by Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Left Proposal No. 6, by Ine Marie Eriksen Søreide on behalf of the Right and Left proposal No. 7, from Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide on behalf of the Right First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up a scheme for the cancellation of NOK 20 000 of the study loan upon completion of teacher training.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e2280	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to specialise in general teacher training against the age stage.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e2295	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Advancement Party, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to raise the admission requirements in Norwegian and mathematics to general teacher training.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e2310	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-4, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government requests the extension of the ‘Development Competence’ strategy for initial training competence development by three years from the end of the strategy period in 2008. The strategy runs until 2011, with the same or higher resource effort from the Government as today.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the strategy for developing skills in initial training is followed and to ask for guidelines to be developed to assist school owners in identifying their skills. This mapping shall provide the basis for the action plan on skills development among teachers. The development of competence to take place should be professionally specific and relevant to the subjects in which teachers are to be taught, and it must also include professionals.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to work to ensure that municipalities can attract business and public institutions more actively into education. Among these, the Government is asked to consider introducing positions in school according to the model of Professor II in higher education.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to contribute financially to the establishment of bonus and working time schemes offered to real-time teachers aged 55 who wish to continue in school.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-14.ana.ud1716e2377	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
